 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he trusted that the statement in the Royal Speech that the Estimates had been framed with a due regard to the efficiency of the public service, as well as economically, would turn out to be quite accurate; because he was afraid that in the run for popularity, which would shortly come between the two parties, the efficiency of the public service might be sacrificed to economical views, and a desire unduly to remit taxation. He was induced to say this, because recently important national works in the shape of fortifications at Milford Haven had been stopped, and much disappointment was felt at the withdrawal of the military force in that quarter. He did not mean to criticise military arrangements, but he thought a great mistake would be committed if Volunteers, instead of being considered as an addition to our military force, were regarded as a substitute for it.
 MR. MAGURE  said, he must beg to explain. He had simply said, that if an Irish Member had indulged in language of the same description he would have been charged with exaggeration.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, the Government had, since the prorogation of Parliament, taken a step which was of very considerable importance, more especially in as far as it touched our friendly relations with the Government of Washington. It would be remembered, that on the last day of the Session he had the honour of submitting to the House some considerations on the
 78 "If we find matters still uncertain and a war going on which may result one way or the other, we should say that is not a state of things which would justify us in recognising the Archduke of Austria as the Emperor of Mexico." Morning Post 79
 MR. HANBURY TRACY : Sir, it is with great diffidence that I rise to second the Address, so ably and eloquently moved by the hon. Baronet beside me, and had I not known that it was intended as a compliment through me to the constituency which I have the honour to represent, I should have been inclined to shrink from so great a responsibility. Having, however, under these circumstances undertaken the task before me, I rely with confidence on that proverbial kindness and indulgence which has always been extended to a new Member on his first venturing to address the House. It is with great pleasure that I gather from the general tenor of the Speech from the Throne much that is calculated to inspire us not merely with gratitude for the past, but with sanguine anticipations for the future. If I might be allowed without fear of intrusion to touch on so delicate a topic, I should say that what was only wanting to complete the satisfaction with which we listened to that Speech was, that words of such pleasing import should have been dignified and graced by their delivery from the lips of Her Majesty in person. I am sure I only express the feelings of all around me when I add that it is our earnest prayer that our Gracious Queen may be able so far "to pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow" as to bring herself to gladden the hearts of her loving subjects by again appearing amongst them on occasions of this nature. 49 50 quasi-feudal 51 52 Bombay 53
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  wished to correct a statement made by the gallant Colonel in respect to the injuries and insults received from the Bhootanese Government. Those injuries were not merely personal insults offered to our Envoy, but consisted of a series of outrages extending over a number of years. The Bhootanese had on different occasions made irruptions into the plains, murdered our subjects, and carried others into captivity whom they refused to release; and this state of things was not one of recent times only, but had been going on for more than twenty or thirty years past. It had, therefore, been felt necessary to check these lawless incursions. An expedition for the purpose of putting an end to such a course of intolerable conduct on the part of the Bhootanese had been projected before the mutinies, but was naturally postponed during their continuance. After India was
 82
 LORD FERMOY  said, he did not at all agree with the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. H. Seymour) in thinking that the last Session of a Parliament was the proper time for Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Reform Bill. In common with hon. Gentlemen who had spoken in support of the Government, he deplored the fact that the Government and the House had not at an earlier period of the existence of the present Parliament grappled with the question of Reform. There had, indeed, been many other important questions to consider, and the country also had been apathetic:—but if the question were mooted just when Parliament was about to be dissolved it would be dropped, as it had been dropped before. He should much prefer a measure being deliberately brought forward after the question had been fully discussed at the hustings. To introduce a measure now would lay the House open to a charge of insincerity on the part of those constituents who were about to be appealed to. Some very able and also some very singular speeches had been made that night on the subject of Ireland, which showed the growing interest with which the affairs of that country were regarded. The speech of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. Long) did as much credit to his head as it did to his heart. But on this question of Ireland, he (Lord Fermoy) regretted that the Speech from the Throne (which was said always to be made up piecemeal by respective Cabinet Ministers) should contain exaggerations as to the state of that country. It was going beyond the fact to state there had been a really good harvest in Ireland. He felt quite assured that the paragraph as to Ireland had not been furnished by the very able and intelligent nobleman who had recently gone over to Ireland as Lord Lieutenant, for his Excellency was applying his able and
 75 s. s. s. 76
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that he had to complain of several omissions in 'Her Majesty's Speech. He deeply regretted that, in the last Session of this Parliament, the Government were about to make no effort to redeem the pledges which they gave on their accession to office. Six years ago they overturned the Government of Lord Derby on the question of Reform. It was true that a Bill was brought in by the then Lord John Russell; but it was introduced with so much lukewarmness, and was so almost entirely unsupported by the Members of the Government, that at last, upon the Motion of an hon. Gentleman who had that day ceased to be a Member of the House, it was postponed. Hon. Gentlemen opposite went to the hustings pledged to that Reform Bill. They would shortly have to meet their constituents again, and what answers would they have to give when questioned upon this subject? What opportunity could be better suited to the introduction of a Reform Bill than a quiet time like the present, when we had at the head of the Government a statesman of such experience and ability as the noble Lord? Pledged as the Opposition itself was to some reform, he believed that a great opportunity had been lost for carrying such a measure as he, as a moderate Reformer, should like to see passed, for he somewhat
 61 62 63 64
 MR. BRADY  said, he had never read a paragraph which it was less easy to understand than the paragraph of the Speech relating to Ireland, which stated that Ireland during the past year had had its share in the advantages of a good harvest. Such a paragraph would have appeared much more appropriately in  Punch 59 60
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House that he had issued Warrants for  New Writs, v. v. v. v. v.
 MR. SPEAKER   reported,
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he could not agree with that portion of Her Majesty's Speech which included Ireland in its description of the general prosperity of the kingdom. He had always been foremost in urging upon his countrymen the duty and necessity of self-reliance; for he was convinced that, whatever Government might do, nothing effectual could be done for the salvation of Ireland unless Irishmen depended on themselves. But it was idle for Government officials and pamphleteers to taunt Irishmen with want of self-
 68 69 70
 MR. B. LONG  explained that he had adverted to absenteeism as the worst evil in the social condition of Ireland, and that he regarded the occasional residence of a member of the Royal Family in that country as a means of correcting that evil.
 MR. R. LONG  said, he did not rise for the purpose of offering any special criticism on the speeches of the hon. Baronet who moved, and the hon. and gallant Member who seconded the Address, for in some of their remarks he was sure both sides of the House would concur, more especially in the hope expressed by the gallant Member for the Montgomeryshire Burghs, that ere long Her Most Gracious Majesty might again gladden by her presence the hearts of her subjects on those occasions on which her presence added so much to the solemnity of the ceremonial. He was, however, not at all surprised at those shortcomings on the part of his political leaders of which the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. H. Seymour) so feelingly complained. Nobody, he thought, who had studied the history of the Whig party, could have failed to perceive that there was a melancholy consistency in the line of conduct which they pursued. Their policy seemed to be based on a series of pledges loosely given and instantaneously broken. They were in the habit of raising the wind in any way that best suited their purpose, and filling their sails with what some of the right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench termed the spirit of the age, and then leaving it to others to fulfil the promises which they had made, forgetting "reform," "economy," "retrenchment"—those big words by the use of which they had won their way to place. Indeed, it often occurred to him that a good description of a Whig in office was "an ugly dog well muzzled." But there were other causes of complaint than those which had been urged against them by the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour). The agricultural constituencies might, he thought, very fairly feel somewhat indignant that no notice was taken in the Speech of the difficulties against which they had so long struggled,
 65 A laugh. 66 Laughter. 67
 MR. SCULLY  said, he should not have presented himself to the House if any other hon. Gentleman had seemed disposed to say a word. It would appear that Irish Members had rather given up the practice of speaking in public. [ Laughter. 54 commeilfaut 55 56 57 bonâ fide 58
 COLONEL SYKES,  referring to that part of Her Majesty's Speech which related to Bhootan, one of the wildest regions on the face of the earth, and which was almost literally in the clouds, between Assam and Thibet, and whose chief productions were rocks and jungle, said, the outrage complained of originated in our sending a deputation there to endeavour to make an arrangement with the Government which we were not invited to make, and which that Government repudiated. Our Minister was no doubt treated with insult; but why did we go there and expose ourselves to insult? Our Government justified the maintenance of 70,000 Europeans in India to look after our Indian army, because we would not trust the Native troops with arms in their hands. These Europeans, then, with such distrust, should accompany Native troops on all services throughout India. But what was the fact? Four brigades of Native troops had gone to Bhootan, and the only
 80 de facto 81
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  differed altogether from some of the opinions expressed both by the noble Lord who had just sat down and the hon. Member for Dungarvan, when they said that the prosperity of Ireland could only be promoted by extending the manufactures of the north to every other part of the country. He said that that was impossible. We found that the manufactures in England were more or less concentrated in the north, as they were also in Ireland.
 77
 SIR HEDWORTH WILLIAMSON : Sir, before I proceed to offer a few observations to the House, custom requires from me that I should ask hon. Members to give me that kind indulgence which they usually afford to those who address them for the first time; and I must ask for a great share of that indulgence, as I have had but a very short time the honour of occupying a seat in Parliament. I am, consequently, not very well acquainted with the regulations which govern your proceedings. Sir, after expressing in the opening paragraph of the Speech the satisfaction Her Majesty feels in again meeting Her Parliament, Her Majesty proceeds to allude to a question which last year afforded the greatest uneasiness, not only in this country, but throughout the whole of Europe, involving, as it did, not only the probability, but the possibility of an European war. That has happily and luckily passed away, because we are told that those difficulties which then existed between Denmark and the German Powers have been overcome and a peace completed. The Danish question occupied such a large portion of the attention of the House during the last Session, and it was then so ably discussed in all its branches, especially the memorable debate which took place in July, shortly before the prorogation, that it is hardly necessary that I should now trouble the House upon the subject. The House of Commons on that occasion pronounced an opinion which, I think, was perfectly and fully borne out by the country; and although it was admitted on all sides that it was a melancholy spectacle to see a brave and gallant, though small, State like Denmark, unsuccessfully resisting the hostile attack of two such powerful neighbours as those with whom she had to contend, yet, considering the interests involved, it would have been most impolitic for England to have entered into that quarrel single-handed. But peace having been re-established, let us hope that the animosities which embittered the relations between the contending parties will pass away, and that more friendly relations will be established between Denmark and the great Powers of Germany. So far as this country is concerned, it is gratifying to find that the friendship between Her and Denmark has not been diminished by past events, if we may judge from the re-
 41 42 43 44 45 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to thank Her Majesty for the most gracious Speech delivered by Her Command to both Houses of Parliament: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that the negotiations in which the Emperor of Austria and the King of Prussia were engaged with the King of Denmark were brought to a conclusion by a Treaty of Peace; and humbly to express the gratification with which we learn that
 46 "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that She remains steadfastly neutral between the contending parties in the Civil War which still unhappily continues in North America; and to assure Her Majesty that with Her we should rejoice at a friendly reconciliation between them: "To convey our thanks to Her Majesty for informing us that a Japanese Daimio in rebellion against his Sovereign, having infringed the rights accorded by Treaty to Great Britain and to certain other Powers, and that the Japanese Government having failed to compel him to desist from his lawless proceedings, the Diplomatic Agents and the Naval Commanders of Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, and the United States of North America undertook a combined operation for the purpose of asserting the rights which their respective Governments had obtained by Treaty; and to express our hope that this operation, which has been attended with complete success, may by its result afford security for Foreign Commerce and additional strength to the Government of Japan, with which the relations of Her Majesty are friendly: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for commanding Papers on this subject to be laid before us: "To assure Her Majesty that we learn with regret that the conflict with some of the Native Tribes in New Zealand has not yet been brought to a close; and to thank Her Majesty for informing us that the successful efforts of Her Majesty's Regular Forces, supported by those raised in the Colony, have led to the submission of some of the Insurgents; and that those who are still in arms have been acquainted with the equitable conditions on which their submission would be accepted: "To express our gratification at learning that under Her Majesty's sanction, and at the invitation of Her Majesty's Governor General, a Conference of Delegates from Her several North American Provinces had assembled at Quebec. That those Delegates had adopted Resolutions having for their object a closer union of those Provinces under a Central Government, and that if those Resolutions shall be approved by the Provincial Legislatures, Her Majesty will cause a Bill to be laid before us for carrying this important Measure into effect: "To assure Her Majesty that with Her Majesty we rejoice at the general tranquillity of Her
 47 "Humbly to express to Her Majesty our regret at the calamity which has recently occasioned great loss of life and property at Calcutta, and at other places in India, and our trust that the prompt assistance rendered by the officers of the Government, and the generous contributions which have been made in various parts of India, may have relieved the sufferings which have thus been occasioned: "To thank Her Majesty for having directed the Estimates for the ensuing year to be laid before us, and for having caused them to be framed with a due regard to economy, and to the efficiency of the Public Service: "To assure Her Majesty that we learn with gratification that the general condition of the Country is satisfactory; that the Revenue realises its estimated amount; that the distress which prevailed in some of the Manufacturing Districts has greatly abated, while the Act passed for the encouragement of Public Works in those Districts has been attended with useful results; and that Ireland during the past year has had its share in the advantage of a good Harvest, with a gradual extension of Trade and Manufactures: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that we will give our earnest attention to the measures of public usefulness which may be submitted for our consideration: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that Bills will be laid before us for the concentration of all the Courts of Law and Equity, with their attendant Offices, on a convenient site; for the completion of the Revision of the Statute Law; for the Amendment of the Law relating to Patents for Inventions; and for conferring on the County Courts an equitable jurisdiction in causes of small amount: "To assure Her Majesty that our serious attention shall be given to the measures which may be proposed for carrying into effect certain Recommendations made to the House of Commons, after Inquiry directed by that House, into the Operation of the Laws regulating the Relief to the Poor, and to the Bill which will be laid before us, founded on the Report of the Commission for inquiring into Public Schools; and to thank Her Majesty for informing us that She has directed that a Commission shall be issued to inquire into
 48
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The hon. Member for Chippenham stated to this House that the Irish people were a debased and mutilated people. I ask whether that is not language which the hon. Member for Dungarvan would repudiate as exaggeration. What were the remarks that fell from the hon. Member for Chippenham, this new champion of Irish nationality? He said that the state of Ireland was a disgrace to the world, and that for the last thirty years the party represented by the present Government have had the administration of the country, and that all the laws have emanated from them. But the hon. Member, and those who sit on the same side of the House, have had the opportunity of suggesting legislation for Ireland. Why did they not do so? What does the hon. Member propose? He says that the remedy for the state of things in Ireland is not to have the Lord Lieutenant there, but to pass penal laws against absenteeism, and force the Prince of Wales to live there. I put it to the House whether, if the state of Ireland is such as the hon. Gentleman describes, the presence of the Prince of Wales can be in any degree serviceable. It would be more like condemning him to transportation and penal servitude. I am prepared in any debate which may take place not only to vindicate the conduct of the Government, but to show that the condition of the country has greatly improved. The hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Scully) found fault with the Speech from the Throne. He said it would have been better not to have alluded to Ireland at all, and declared that it was a
 72 73 d. 74
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : There can be no doubt, Sir, that the question which has been raised by the hon. Member for Dungarvau (Mr.Maguire) requires more lengthened consideration than it can receive on the present occasion. I was very much struck by an observation which fell from my hon. Friend the Member for Cork (Mr. Scully), that English Members knew very little about Ireland; and, after listening to the speeches of the hon. Member for Chippenham (Mr. B. Long), and the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. H. Seymour), the observation was still more forcibly impressed upon my mind. The hon. Member for
 71
 MR. MAGTTIRE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When it is the intention of the Government to introduce the promised measure for reforming the Court of Admiralty in Ireland, and assimilating the Law in Ireland to that which exists in England?
 LORD NAAS  asked the Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is his intention to introduce any measure during the present Session for the promotion and encouragement of Arterial Drainage?
 MAJOR GAVIN  represented a constituency (Limerick) at present suffering under great distress. He agreed with the right hon. Baronet that Ireland was endeavouring to assist herself. Flax was being grown to a great extent, and although at present there was some difficulty in conveying the produce to market, yet in a short time that inconvenience would be overcome. In his county alone there had been three times as much flax grown this year as there had been last; therefore, he had reason to hope that a gleam of prosperity was at length coming to Ireland. In the town of Limerick there was a large amount of distress attributable to want of employment, and he hoped that in the spring money would be advanced by the Government to enable them to employ the poor. This would be the last time, he trusted, that they should have to whine at the doors at Downing Street for assistance, as the Irish people must be taught, and must learn, and in fact were learning to work for themselves, and not to look to others for assistance.
 MR. O'REILLY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, some of the papers asked for were in the Poor Law Office, but there were other papers connected with the matter which had been sent back to the Home Office. The papers which were under the control of the Poor Law Board had been laid on the table. As to the papers that had been sent back to the Home Office, there would be no objection to produce them also.
 MR. BRADY  declined to place any faith in the report from Galway read by the right hon. Baronet, on which he founded his belief that the distress in that part was decreasing. It must be recollected that the magistrates were landed proprietors, and therefore naturally averse to increasing their own burdens to afford relief to the destitute. [Sir ROBERT PEEL: I said the magistrates and the cesspayers.] That made no difference whatever, as it was well known that the cesspayers were chosen by the landed proprietors, and were, therefore, compelled to act in accordance with their wishes. The paragraph in the Speech meant nothing, and it would have been much better to have omitted it altogether. It was true, as the right hon. Baronet said last night, that in 1860 Irish Members complained that the Royal Speech contained no reference to their country; but it was no compensation for that omission that they should now be told that Providence had sent them a good harvest. For that harvest the people of Ireland were grateful to Providence, and if the Government did something for them they would be thankful to them too.
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he will lay upon the table all Correspondence between the Poor Law Commissioners in Ireland and the Poor Law Board in London, relative to the alleged illegal removal to Ireland of Mary Moriarty and her four children, and Julia Hannan and child, by the
 84
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had yesterday given notice of an Amendment upon that portion of the Address which related to Ireland, because he believed it to be untrue. He was surprised that the following paragraph should have been inserted in the Royal Speech: —
 "Ireland, during the past year, has had its share in the advantage of a good harvest, and trade and manufactures are gradually extending in that part of the kingdom." 85 "That this House regrets that the general condition of Ireland cannot be regarded as prosperous or satisfactory, and that multitudes of the inhabitants continue to emigrate to foreign countries, through the want of remunerative employment at home." 86 87 bond fide 88 The Times
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he regretted to find that Her Majesty's Speech contained no reference to the state of the public services of the country. He believed there never was a time when it was more necessary than it was at the present moment that we should place our establishments on an effective footing. We had recently created an iron-clad navy which, with the exception of some four ships, had turned out to be a complete failure; and they must all be anxious to know something of the policy of the Government with respect to that arm of the public service. Our relations with the States of North America were not in a satisfactory position; and it was a lamentable fact that if anything should occur to disturb the peace which now happily reigned between the two countries, and which, he trusted, would be maintained—should anything occur to disturb that peace, we were not in a position to defend our commerce in any part of the world. From the information he had received, he was led to believe that the Americans possessed ships not only stronger and carrying heavier guns than ours, but surpassing them in speed and in capacity for keeping the sea. He was sorry that no representative of the Admiralty was present upon this occasion; and he wished to state, that he proposed to take an early opportunity of calling the attention of the House to that point. With regard to India, he found that the Indian Minister had introduced into Her Majesty's Speech a paragraph which only faintly represented the different questions of great importance which should be attended to in that country. The cyclone was the only circumstance in the history of India to which any allusion was made; but there was nothing said about the circumstances of that calamity, or the means which it was desirable to adopt for the purpose of preventing the recurrence of such a disaster. Some thirty years ago—in May 1833, or 1834— there was a storm of the same description, and he was witness to the enormous loss of life on that occasion. Yet since that time no effort had been made, by the setting up of sea walls and dykes, to prevent the recurrence of such
 92
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the question was a large one. Last autumn the serious attention of the Irish Government was turned to the subject. He had yesterday received a note from the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland with reference to some communications from persons interested in land bordering on the river Shannon. It appeared to have been pressed on the attention of the Treasury by the Lord Lieutenant; but no reply had been as yet received from that quarter.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, in reply to the hon. and learned Member for Cork, I will supplement the statement I made last night by a very few remarks, for I understand the hon. and learned Member does not propose to divide. I think that the general view taken by this House last evening, after the statement which I then made, was that the paragraph in question was not altogether uncalled for. I believe, on my conscience, the statement, that the prospects of Ireland during the past year have greatly improved to be correct. The grain and potato crop was most abundant, and the hon. Member (Mr. Scully) himself admits that the grazing interest was prosperous. Now, the grazing interest in Ireland is a most prominent one. But the hon. Gentleman says that even if
 89 90
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Government of Ireland had prepared a Bill for the purpose referred to founded on the Report of the Commission, and the late Attorney General for Ireland had intended to introduce it to the House. The matter was under the consideration of the Government, but owing to the recent changes in the Irish Law Officers he was at present unable to say when the measure would be introduced.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  trusted hon. Members would not decide the question solely on the ground of personal inconvenience. But he hoped that, whether the number consisted of three or five, the vote of one Member would be considered equal to the vote of another. He believed that it would take away all energy and responsibility from the Member of a Committee if he found that his opinion was only worth one-half that of the Member sitting next to him. The result would be that he would leave all to the Chairman. He did not care much whether a Committee consisted of three or five, but let each Member feel that his opinion was worth as much as that of the Member sitting near him.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he proposed last year that the number of Members serving on Private Bill Committees should be reduced to three. The House had consented to a reduction of the number, but had fixed it at four. Now, he agreed with the hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Charles Forster) that three were preferable to four, and for the reason, among others, that it would be a saving of 25 per cent on the labour of the House; and seeing that the number of Railway Bills was greater now than for many years past, that was a consideration which the House could hardly afford to overlook. It was also to be remembered that the more they limited the number of Members, the more they fixed and concentrated the responsibility of each. They ought not to limit the decision to one man, because every man was liable to crotchets and fancies, which could only be removed by discussion. Short, however, of leaving the decision to one man, he believed that the smaller the number the better. If, for example, they had twelve or fifteen instead of five, they would have infinitely more careless decisions than at
 106 volenti non fit injuria.
 MR. BEMTINCK  said, he agreed that the House and the country owed a deep debt of gratitude to the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) and the Committee of Selection for the admirable way in which they discharged the arduous and difficult duties devolving upon them. But as far as the question now before them was concerned, the House had but very little choice in the matter. From what he had heard from the hon. Member who brought forward this Motion, it appeared that the number of Members was insufficient for the work they had to do; and, as the number of Bills was on the increase, while the number of available Members in the House remained the same, he agreed with the hon. Member for Walsall that some change must be made, or the whole thing must of necessity soon come to a dead lock. The hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Smollett) had passed a censure upon the Committee of Selection with which he could not agree; but he did concur most cordially in his censures upon the mode in which much of this Private Bill legislation originated. And there was, besides, a practice now common which led to a great amount of inconvenience and injustice. He would not say a word in disparagement of the ability and attention of the Committees and their Chairmen; no doubt they performed the work intrusted to them with great ability and attention. But different Committees naturally held different views, and the consequence was there were no regular precedents, and decisions were sometimes given reversing the decisions of previous Committees. Acting upon this fact, Bills were brought in year after year, although rejected probably from the just opposition of parties interested in the project; and yet, to the great inconvenience of the House, brought in again upon the chance of getting a favourable Committee, or of wearing out the opposition by the enormous expense it often involved. That practice ought to be put a stop to; and he trusted that whatever arrangement was now come to it would be understood to be of a temporary character, and that the
 111
 MR. HENLEY  said, he quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) that. they ought very much to be guided by the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire in this matter. What that hon. and gallant Gentleman had said gave him a very strong feeling on the subject. They had now to decide, almost upon sudden notice at the commencement of a Session, whether they should not reverse what was done at the close of the previous Session, when the number of Members to serve on Private Bill Committees was reduced to four. How stood the case? The hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire said he was in favour of three; but that reconsideration had made him doubt the soundness of that opinion, because they could not avoid the risk of the three coming down to two. If they could be sure always of three there would perhaps be no difficulty; but if the Committee were reduced to two, was it likely, where great interests were involved, that the parties would be satisfied with their decision, and not bring the matter upon the floor of the House? That was a very serious risk, and he thought it was clear the House would not be satisfied to rest on the decision of two. If his hon. and gallant Friend said three, he (Mr. Henley) would agree to try that number for the year, but he should be more contented to take four; and for this reason, that last year the House affirmed it. But he felt confident neither the House nor the parties would be satisfied with the decision of two.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, the weight of authority was in favour of four rather than
 112
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  asked the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he has received the Report of the Committee appointed to inquire into the condition of the Regimental Quartermasters, and whether it is intended to lay it upon the table of the House, or to take any action upon it?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTLNGTON  said, the Report in question had been received, and there would be no objection to lay it on the table. The Committee made several recommendations, some of them involving questions of a financial nature, which would, of course, require the consideration of the War Office and the Treasury. Other recommendations involved matters affecting the discipline and internal organization of the army, and they would have to undergo the consideration of the Secretary of State for War and the Commander-in-Chief. In bringing forward the Army Estimates, he would state what were the recommendations of the Committee, and how far the War Office proposed to take action upon them.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that last Session he called attention to the state of the bankruptcy system, and obtained the appointment of a Committee to inquire into and report upon it. He would not go over the ground he then traversed, or state at any length the result of the deliberations of the Committee. He would not trouble them with the weary details of the evidence as to the utter inefficiency of the old system of bankruptcy; how they found Commissioners irregular in their attendance, negligent of their duties, loose and uncertain and frequently contradictory in their judgments, and giving the greatest dissatisfaction to suitors; how the official assignees, who were paid under a wrong system, were also careless and indifferent to the interests confided to their care, and some of them guilty of still graver offences; how the system of creditors' assignees resulted in still greater failure, they being really no protection to those whom they represented, and their audit of the official assignees' accounts being too generally worthless; and how even the subordinate officers of the courts, the messengers, and others, extracted large sums for their own use out of the bankrupt estates. From a recent Return showing the operation of the Bankruptcy Act for the year ending the 11th October, 1864, he learnt that the total amount of money collected under bankruptcy was £677,000 out of which the official charges were upwards of £140,000, or about 20 per cent, exclusive, of course, of the solicitors' and other expenses which could not be avoided. Out of 7,200 bankruptcies, 600 were at the instance of the creditors, and 6,600 at the instance of the debtors. A very large proportion of the estates, upwards of 5,300, yielded no dividend at all, the debtors obtaining their discharge at the public cost; only 350 paid more than  5s. 7s. 6d. 121 3d. 6d. 122 123
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he had no intention of following his hon. Friend into the particulars of the statement which he had made, nor did he think the House would wish him to do so, especially as the terms of the Motion were sufficient to show that the time for its discussion had not yet arrived. No doubt the matter was one which would receive full attention from the Committee, resulting in extensive and important changes, and he felt sure that the House would recognise the valuable services which his hon. Friend had rendered in connection with the subject.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  begged to inform the hon. Gentleman, that in a few days the Navy Estimates would be laid on the table. It would be very inconvenient that he should now give any detailed information as to what was contained in those Estimates, but he had no objection to state thus far that the Government intended to proceed with the Dock in Cork Harbour.
 MR. O'REILLY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When he will lay upon the table of the House the Report of the Belfast Commission of Inquiry; and whether he intends to propose any legislation founded on that Report?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If, during the recess, the case of the ex-Governors of Colonies had been taken into the consideration of the Government; and whether a Bill will be introduced to grant them retiring pensions?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Prisons Bill, about to be brought in, will remain the same as that brought in by him last Session with respect to Clause 13, Part III. of the Bill, authorizing the discontinuance and disposal of Abingdon Gaol?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the case of ex-Governors of colonies had been considered during the recess, and a Bill was in prepation, having for its object to provide pensions for those whose services had been sufficient to entitle them to such provision.
 MR. BENTINCK  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, in consequence of the repeated recurrence of Railway Accidents, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, during the present Session, any measure for the better prevention of Railway Accidents, founded on the Report of the Committee on Railway Accidents which was laid upon the table of the House in the year 1858?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he had a strong feeling against the proposal to give a casting vote to the Chairman. He wished to ask the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire whether, in the event of four being agreed to, he would be prepared to carry out the suggestion to abolish the casting vote of the Chairman?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  moved—
 "That a Message be sent to the Lords requesting their Lordships to communicate to this House the Minutes of Evidence which may be taken before every Committee on a Private Bill originating in the present Session with their Lordships, and sent down to this House."
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that the proposal now before the House was that which was recommended in the Committee by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley). But there were two others, which the noble Lord coupled with it—the one that the Committees should sit at an earlier hour, and the other that the number of days should be limited on which Members should serve. As himself connected with the railway interest he was at a loss to understand the ground upon which all who were so situated were invariably excluded from serving upon Railway Committees. He believed they would act as impartially as other men.
 MR. SPEAKER  acquainted the House, that Mr. Hugh Adair and Mr. Hassard, Members of this House, having consented
 99
 MR. HENNESSY  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty, What steps the Government propose to take with reference to the recommendation made by the Select Committee of last Session in favour of establishing a Royal Dock in Cork Harbour?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he did not rise to oppose the Motion of his hon. Friend, but for the purpose of mentioning a few circumstances to the House in connection with the subject. The Committee of last year had been unwittingly
 124 sub judice. "At the Nottingham Bankruptcy Court yesterday Mr. Commissioner Sanders delivered judgment in the case of Mr. Harris, official assignee of the Birmingham District Court of Bankruptcy, at Nottingham, who was charged by Mr. Chief Registrar Miller with having kept in hand more than £100 in one bankrupt's estate, or above £1,000 in the aggregate of estates, as the case might be, for more than one week, whereby he had become chargeable under the 169th section of the Bankruptcy Act of 1861, and rendered liable to a penalty of 20 per cent on the sums so detained. Mr. Harris was also charged with using the money for his own private purposes. The learned Commissioner gave a detailed account of Mr. Harris's
 125 3s. 2d., "The practice in the London Courts under the old Act was for the official assignee to receive four-fifths of the fees, and the other fifth was paid into court. This sum of £1,803 was made up of fees so obtained. The conduct of Mr. Chief Registrar Miller was indefensible." 126 "The accounts of one of the London messengers, named Cooper, were investigated by a person appointed by the Lord Chancellor to that duty, named Butler. Butler reported a deficiency in Cooper's accounts of £1,330. Cooper was suspended on the 27th of April, 1864. Cooper employed an accountant to look into the accounts, who reduced the deficiency to £350. He reported this result to the Chief Registrar. Mr. Harding was appointed to re-examine the accounts. He allowed all Cooper's figures, and continuing the account down to the 27th of April, 1864, found a further sum of £68 as due from him. The sum thus shown to be due from Cooper was not defalcation at all, but simply an amount that Cooper had supposed his own under the old Acts, and from some small mere clerical mistakes. He was reinstated in his office, and all his back salary was paid to December, 1864. Another messenger of the London Court was charged with a deficiency of £1,800 by the Chief Registrar, on the report of Mr. Butler. This messenger had his accounts looked into, and convinced Mr. Butler that Mr. Butler was totally mistaken, and on Mr. Butler's second report, the Chief Registrar ceased to write to him (the messenger), who has been allowed since to retire from work, retaining his full salary. Mr. Butler's charges for investigating the accounts of three messengers (the two named, and another whose accounts must be taken as regular, for nothing has been said to him) were £550, which sum has been paid by the three messengers. Cooper has also paid a further sum of £80 to Harding for the charges for re-investigation."
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, his intention undoubtedly was that they should try four for the Session. If that proposal were agreed to, he would undertake to give notice of a Motion to abolish the casting vote of the Chairman.
 COIONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he could not enter upon the subject before the House without referring to a remark which had been imported into the discussion by the hon. Member for Dumbarton (Mr. Smollett), as to the manner in which the members of the Private Committees were chosen. As Chairman of the Committee of Selection, it was his special duty to defend that Committee, and he could assure the hon. Gentleman and the House that the Committee of Selection always endeavoured to act with equal fairness towards all the Members of that House. If the hon. Member would only
 107 108
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he believed this proposition was a very reasonable one, but at the same time thought it must involve a considerable increase of expense to the parties appearing before these Committees. He had seen the Motion on the paper only within the last few hours, and had not had an opportunity of taking the opinion of persons interested on that point. Perhaps, therefore, the hon. Member would be kind enough to postpone the Motion for a day or two.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that taking the hon. Member's word on that point, he would acquiesce in his Motion.
 MR. MARSH  was in favour of three Members to serve on Committees, because by adopting that number you would lessen the labours of the House, insure greater attention and responsibility from each Committee, avoid the objection as to the Chairman's casting vote, and at the same time give satisfaction to the parties. It very rarely happened that one Member of the Committee fell ill during the inquiry; but if any such absence occurred, a third Member might be added, he being furnished with the minutes of evidence.
 MR. SMOLLETT  thought the proposition made by the hon. Member would have hardly any effect in reducing the onerous duties discharged by certain Members of the House, and would leave untouched the greatest evil of all—namely, the manner in which the Private Business was conducted by that House. He perfectly agreed with the proposition made last year by the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil), that it was exceedingly desirable that there should be a tribunal external to the House of Commons to which the private business of the country should be referred. But, admitting that this suggestion was not practicable at the present moment, he would make another by which he thought that the duties now imposed on Members would be greatly diminished. For five years consecutively he had now been elected to serve on Private Bill Committees, and he did not think that could have happened, even with the admitted pressure of business, had the Members been selected fairly and impartially. The fact was that a large number of Members were not called on to serve at all. In his opinion, every gentleman offering himself to represent a constituency in Parliament ought to be bound to take in his turn the duties devolving upon Members of the House, and the only exceptions which he would make were in the cases of those holding office under the Crown, and discharging duties from which they could not escape: any other Gentleman seeking to be excused from attendance on Committees ought to produce a medical certificate of his inability to do so; and if all took their turns fairly, there would be little duty for each to discharge. He might be told that there were a great many Gentlemen following the profession of the law, and others who were attending to duties in the City, or otherwise employing their time more profitably than upon Committees. But if their private and public duties clashed, if they found Parliamentary duty irksome, they had their remedy—they ought to resign their seats. Last year, on
 102 103
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, that the question was not the convenience or inconvenience of hon. Members, but what tribunal would give the greatest satisfaction to the parties who came before it. He believed that the feeling among those who usually went before Parliamentary Committees was universal that three was a better number than five. He agreed that four was a number adopted by mistake. It was indeed the most absurd number of any that could be suggested. One strong reason in favour of three was, that it would enable the Committee of Selection to appoint a greater number of Committees at the same time, so that the Private Bill
 105
 MR. TORRENS  said, that towards the end of last Session he brought forward a Motion similar to the one he now intended to propose, and the late Chairman of Committees then stated as an objection to it the increased expenditure it might cast on persons appearing before Private Bill Committees, but promised that, during the recess, he would consult with parties interested in such Bills on the subject, holding out an expectation that he would this Session agree to some such proposition. The late Chairman of Committees had now left that House, and he had not had the opportunity of seeing that hon. Gentleman since last Session. He would not now have ventured to propose this Motion had not many experienced Members of the House, well versed in the practice of Private Bill Committees, fully concurred in the advisability of the Resolution being brought forward. Under the present system, the Members of a Private Bill Committee had no opportunity of seeing the petitions of parties until they assembled in the Committee-room; then, on applying to the clerk, he could have it handed over to him engrossed in a cumbrous form on a parchment almost as large as the table before which he sat. If he perused it he must do so at a time when perhaps counsel was speaking, or some witness giving important evidence. To obviate this inconvenience, he would propose that the petitions connected with Private Bills should be sent to the Members of Private Bill Committees two days before the assembling of each Committee; and he would also propose that the Private Bills themselves should be forwarded to the Members of the Committee two days previous to the assembling of each Committee. He thought it would be an improvement if a copy of each petition were delivered along with the Bill in the manner he proposed. Members of Committees might
 114 s., s. "That on every Private Bill, to be considered by a Committee of this House, all Petitions presented against such Bills be printed at the expense of the Petitioners, and Copies of those Petitions, as well as a Copy of the Bill to be considered, be delivered to each Member of the Committee not less than two days previous to its assembling."—( Mr. Torrens.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he should be happy to act upon the suggestion of the hon. Member for North Lancashire; but, having already ascertained that the expense that would result from the adoption of his proposal would be so very trifling, he thought the House would gain nothing by further inquiry.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he agreed to it, but did so very unwillingly.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The first recommendation of the Committee over which my hon. Friend presided in the year 1858 was that the Board of Trade should be invested with the fullest powers to investigate and to report to Parliament on any accidents which might occur on rail-
 117 118
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  thought it desirable that the suggestion of the hon. Member for North Lancashire should be acted upon by the proposer of the present Motion. He (Mr. Milner Gibson) had a strong impression that Mr. Massey, the late Chairman of the Committee of Ways and Means, had some objection to the
 115
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the proposal to change the number composing their Committees on Private Bills arose entirely, he believed, from the difficulty which the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) found in getting a sufficient number of Members to compose the numerous Committees that were required to be formed.
 109 110
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER , in rising to move to amend the Standing Order No. 7, by substituting "three" for "four" as the number of Members to compose the Select Committee on Private Bills, said, the hon. and gallant Member!! for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) had last Session brought forward a Resolution with respect to the private business of the House, which was included in the Standing Orders, which he deemed to be calculated to promote the convenience both of hon. Members themselves as well as of the public. The hon. and gallant Gentleman in moving that Resolution, stated that the business in question had increased to so enormous an extent as to be beyond the working powers of the Committees, and that the Committee of Selection found the greatest difficulty in naming the Committees for Private Bills, and were consequently compelled to fall back upon a body of reserve, or rather he might call them a noble band of volunteers, who though exempt according to the practice of the Committee, inasmuch as they had already stood the chances of the panel, generously came forward in the emergency, with offers of assistance. The proposal, therefore, of the hon. and gallant Member was to reduce the number from five to three. Unfortunately, however, the number "three" was subjected to a sort of triangular duel on the occasion between the Members who were in favour of five and those by whom the number "four" was advocated. The result of the proceedings showed how a minority might by accident become a majority. A division was first taken on the question, that "three" be the number, and the Motion in favour of that number was negatived by a small majority, inasmuch as those who supported the proposals both for "five" and "four" voted on the same side. When, however, number
 100 pro tanto, en dernier resort 101
 SIR FEANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the remarks of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, whatever their merits, had little immediate bearing on the proposition before the House. Notwithstanding the great experience of his hon. Friend the Member for Walsall (Mr. C. Forster), grave objections seemed to him to present themselves to the Motion which he had submitted. It generally happened that those investigations which occupied the longest time were of the greatest importance, and in such a case, where the Committee consisted of five Members, if one of the number were withdrawn before the conclusion of the inquiry, owing to the death of a relation or to personal illness, it made very little difference in the end, because the particular Member was discharged from attendance and the remaining Members completed the investigation. And this would still be the case if the number stood at four. But if the number were reduced to three and one of these were withdrawn, the effect must be either to reduce one of the two Members to a dummy if the Chairman retained his casting vote, or, if this were done away with, to bring matters to a standstill. It would be a smaller inconvenience that the Standing Order should remain as it was at present than that the whole expenditure should be futile, and that the parties should have to begin over again.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he could not regard the proposition now before the House as being materially better than that adopted last Session. The number of four was inconvenient because it was necessary to give a casting vote to the Chairman, and that was a very lame expedient for getting over the difficulty. He thought that a conclusive objection to the number four, but the number three was equally objectionable, because it gave an undue importance to the Chairman. If any one
 104
 SIR GEORGE GREY  collected from what had fallen from the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Wilson Patten) that he thought it expedient to try four Members, and in this case the only question would be whether the Chairman should have a casting vote. If you could always insure that three Members would be present, three would form a very competent Committee; but the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) had said that very great difficulty might arise if the Committee were reduced to two, and he proposed to get over that difficulty by providing that the inquiry should proceed with two Members, by consent of both parties. But, in practice, that consent would hardly ever be given. When a Bill was opposed late in the Session, the opposing party would of course refuse their consent, and would throw upon the promoters the necessity of beginning  de novo;
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as he would on Monday next move for leave to bring in a Bill upon the subject of Prisons, he thought it would be more convenient that he should postpone until that period any explanations upon the subject of the hon. Gentleman's question.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had received no information whatever with regard to the outrage committed on Mr. Ashworth, and he deeply regretted that he had been subjected to it. No complaint had been made to him as to the conduct of any magistrate concerned in the transaction, nor had any representation reached the Home Office upon the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he gave a most ready assent to the introduction of these two Bills. The noble Lord had taken great interest in this important and difficult subject, and he (Sir George Grey) and the House would be glad to see the Bills prepared under the direction of the noble Lord. At the same time, he was bound to say that, having given a great deal of attention to the subject, he doubted whether they were yet in possession of sufficiently full and accurate information to enable them to legislate effectively upon the subject. He assumed that to be the notion of the noble Lord himself, from the fact that he had given notice for the appointment of a Committee of Inquiry.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he believed the Report would be in the hands of hon. Members in a few days. He did not, of course, know certainly what would be the nature of its recommendations, and he could not therefore say whether the Government would propose any legislation founded upon them. But he could state that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a measure with reference to the condition of the town of Belfast.
 MR. BAZLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to a gross outrage committed upon Mr. Charles Ash-worth, of Fairfield and of Egerton Hall, Lancashire, who was seized by a pretended Police Officer at Shrewsbury, robbed of his watch, money, and other property, and then taken before the Borough Magistrates, and, under their orders, incarcerated for twenty-four hours, though the most re-
 119
 MR. LOCKE KING  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce any measure whereby the claims of the Crown, especially in matters of Legacy and Succession Duty, would be limited to some fixed period, in like manner as simple contract debts are now limited with respect to private individuals?
 LORD STANLEY  asked the Secretary of State for India, Whether the inquiry now being carried on into the respective rights of the Talookdars and Cultivators of Oude is in pursuance of instructions issued by him; and, whether he will lay upon the table any Correspondence that may have passed on the subject; and, also, whether he could give any explanation of the nature and purport of that inquiry?
 SIR BOBERT PEEL  said, that last Session his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland engaged to lay on the table of the House a Bill, and he did so
 140
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill on this subject, said, that he hoped the time had now arrived when Parliament would be prepared to remove those material obstacles which had so long obstructed the administration of the law in this metropolis, and to provide the Courts of Justice with a local habitation worthy of the dignity of the country, and of the important duties they had to perform. It was a common thing in this country for questions of great national importance to take a considerable
 158 159 160 161 "But of all these parties none is ultimately so largely interested as the public itself … Of all the elements of expense in litigation there is none more important than time; of all the sources of vexation attendant on it there is none more bitter than unnecessary delay. If court be separated from court, and courts be at a distance from their offices; if these last be separated from each other; if both are at a distance from the chambers of barristers and the offices of attorneys and solicitors, it is obvious that time must be lost in the transaction of business, at every stage of it, by every one concerned in it," 162 163 164 esprit de corps; 165 166 "I think it would tend greatly to the proper administration of justice that all the courts, both of law and equity, should be together in one place. I think the separation that has taken place, particularly of late years, between the courts of law and equity has been very injurious to the administration of justice." "The Lincoln's Inn scheme is founded on the principle of making permanent the present separation of the equity courts from those of the common law and all the branches of the administration of justice…⁛ It is, therefore, inconsistent with the recommendations which we think it our duty to make; and not only so, but it will, if carried into effect, certainly postpone, for an indefinite period, if not practically extinguish, all hope of the general concentration, to which we attach so much importance." 167 168 "Not one single suitor has ever received anything beyond the cash actually paid into Court,
 169 170 171 quasi "The argument is founded upon a distinction between courts of equity and courts of law, for which there is no just or solid foundation. All the courts, and all the branches of each court, form together one great system of administering justice, in which all the subjects of the realm have a common interest, and to which, therefore, any funds, from whatever sources derived, if those funds are at the free disposal of Parliament, may be legitimately applied; and we think this may be more confidently affirmed at a time when the tendency of legislation is to assimilate the courts of law and equity, by an attribution to each of powers and functions hitherto exercised exclusively by one of them. If the fund is not the property of the suitors in Chancery, if it is the mere child and creature of legislation, surely it is for Parliament from time to time to decide in what manner and for what purposes it can be most usefully employed. The past application cannot fetter the discretion of Parliament as to the future.… The suitor in Chancery of to-day may be a suitor at law to-morrow, and next week or next month his property may become the subject of disposal by the Court of Probate. The broad principle which we have thus stated— i. e. 172 173 "Then comes the question, which is most for the benefit of the suitors?…I think there cannot be a doubt that it is less for the benefit of the suitor to abolish all official fees than to enable his solicitor to attend to his business in a proper wayֵIn my opinion a suitor would save ten times over the amount of any benefit he would gain if all the court fees were taken away … No practical man can entertain a doubt about it for a moment. The suitor would gain far more by the concentration of the courts and offices ֵThat is a much higher duty; it would confer a much greater benefit upon the suitor, and is much more the duty of the Government." "You must judge of the interests and views of the suitors through their solicitors; and you would find it very difficult to find a dozen solicitors in London, or in the country, who have had anything to do with the transaction of business in the courts, who would not agree that it would be a great gain, and a capital bargain to their clients, if, for the sake of £30,000 a year, they could get such a result." 174 175 by s. d. s. d. d. 176 177
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  explained that £900,000 was to be obtained by the sale of £1,000,000 of stock, and £400,000 would be repaid by a small fee for fifty years on suitors in common law and probate.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he wished to correct a misapprehension under which the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Selwyn) appeared to labour with regard to the financial portion of the scheme. The whole expense was to be provided by the Treasury, so that if there was not a fund to make it good then the Treasury would bear the expense; but of course the Treasury was satisfied there was a fund. His hon. and learned Friend said they should look to income only, and not to the capital; but he (the Attorney General) looked to the capital to repay the State, the State guaranteeing the suitors against any possible loss of their money. The next operation was to provide for those annual charges, which the £30,000, the income of the fund taken, would otherwise meet. How was that provided for? In the first place, the State guaranteed all individuals interested against loss; but then the State was to be indemnified by taking all sums necessary to meet any deficiency from time to time arising in the income to meet the annual charges, out of the other reserved half-million. The Lord Chancellor would have power to redeem and buy up the compensations now chargeable on that
 198
 MR. COWPER  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to enable Her Majesty's Commissioners of Works to acquire a site for the erection and concentration of courts of justice. He was obliged to provide for this by a separate measure, because by the forms of the House the purposes of this Bill could not be attained by the Bill for which the House had just given leave. He apprehended that there was no difficulty in deciding on the best site for the new courts and offices. The means of preventing the waste of time now so vexatious and injurious were to be sought by concentrating the courts and offices near the chambers of counsel and the offices of the attorneys. It happened that this ob-
 199 200
 MR. DENMAN , being also a member of Lincoln's Inn, could not help expressing his gratification at what had fallen from the hon. and learned Member for Walling ford (Mr. Malins), that he had good reason to suppose that the hon. Society of that Inn were no longer likely to be reckoned among the opponents of this measure for concentrating the law courts. It was now considered most desirable to establish, as far as possible, a fusion of law and equity, and as this was a step in that direction, it would meet with very general approval. The hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University, who appeared to stand alone in his opposition to this measure, must be aware that every day cases were
 194
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  regretted that he could not lay upon the table of the House Admiral Dacres' reports with regard to the performances of the armour-plated ships. Those reports were always regarded as confidential reports to the Admiralty, and they were almost invariably refused.
 MR. AYRTON  expressed his satisfaction at finding that the Government intended to proceed vigorously with this measure
 187 188 189 Nisi Prius Nisi Prius 190
 MR. LAYARD  said, that as soon as information was received of the state of things on the River Plate in December last instructions were sent to the Admiral commanding the squadron in the neighbourhood to afford all necessary protection to the lives and property of British subjects. No further information had been received since the date mentioned by the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. BUTLER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When it is probable the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the circumstances attending the practice, construction, storage, and general arrangement of the Government powder magazines throughout the kingdom will make their Report; and whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, daring the present Session, a Bill to compel the owners of public buildings to provide sufficient means of escape in the case of fire?
 MR. SELWYN  said, the real question before the House was not whether there were evils attendant on the present arrangement of the courts of justice—which everybody had admitted and deplored long ago—but how these evils were to be remedied expeditiously and with a due regard to justice and economy. It did not follow that because concentration was desirable the present scheme should be adopted. When he saw that the Attorney General had taken up this measure he certainly expected to have heard some scheme proposed which would have had a chance of passing the House of Commons, and which, as the Government were not willing to propose a direct Vote from, the public purse, would have been consistent with justice and economy. The speech of the Attorney General would have been an excellent prologue to a proposal to vote a million and a half from the public funds, and to such a vote, when due necessity was shown, he should not have been disposed to object. In the latter part of his speech the Attorney General, referring to the Treasury Minute of 1861, admitted that if the objections therein stated applied to the present scheme there would be little chance of it passing the House of Commons. But those objections applied with even greater force to the present scheme. His hon. and learned Friend was obliged to omit all mention of the Report of the Commission of last year, comprising such names as the Duke of Argyll, Lord Kings-down, and the hon. Member for London, because that Report contained statements and also a recommendation fatal to this very scheme. His hon. and learned Friend maintained that the scheme was not open to the objections on the score of economy suggested in the Minute of 1861; but if the Bill were anything like that shadowed forth in his speech, it was even more objectionable than the Bills which followed the Report of 1861. The Bill of 1862 provided that the fees should no longer be reduced at the will of the Lord Chancel-
 180 s. d. s. d., 181 3d. 182 183 184 "It was a great mistake to suppose that the Court of Chancery was indebted to the Consolidated Fund. If the balance were struck, and if the Suitors' Fund were emancipated from the burden thrown upon it, the Consolidated Fund would have £200,000 a year additional to bear. The accumulated fees of the Suitors' Fee Fund ought to be dedicated to the purpose of relieving the suitors from the fees of the Court of Chancery."—[3  Hansard, 185 "You might as well say that funds contributed to a hospital were intended to benefit only the present inmates, and had no reference to future sufferers; or that the pence contributed by children in a school, if a surplus remained at the end of any week, did not belong to the school, but might be taken and applied for any extraneous purpose." 186
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I have no difficulty in answering the Question of my noble Friend; and, as considerable misapprehension exists upon this subject, it may be desirable that I should state very briefly the circumstances under which this inquiry has been instituted. It has, I know, been represented that Sir John Lawrence has materially reversed the policy of Lord Canning with regard to the settlement in Oude, and has been guilty of
 139
 MR. CARDWELL : The papers which have been laid upon the table show that it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose to Parliament measures for the total discontinuance of transportation to the Australian Colonies, and also that the time within which the necessary arrangements can be made in this country for carrying that change into effect has been calculated not to exceed three years.
 MR. CARDWELL : I have not received any report that Judge Coursol has been dismissed. Whatever steps may have been taken by the Governor General of Canada have been taken by him upon the advice of his Ministers, and not in consequence of any communication made to him by the Home Government.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that it was not desirable to have the courts of law dispersed over the metropolis, and was also in favour of the codification of the laws relating to debtor and creditor. He agreed with the leading points of the speech of the Attorney General. Again, why should the country be at the expense of putting debtors into gaol for very small sums of money? He did not know whether it would not be better to pay the whole of such debts. He regretted that the Lord Chancellor's scheme of having a Chief Judge in bankruptcy had not been adopted;
 179
 MR. PEACOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether Judge Coursol in Canada has been dismissed in consequence of any communication from the Government at Home; and, if so, whether such communication was made at the instance of the Government at Washington?
 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD (Lord PROBY)   reported
 MR. MOOR  asked the Secretary for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to discontinue the transportation of criminals to Australia; and, if so, at what period such discontinuance will be commenced?
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in consequence of the frequent recurrence of fires at theatres and other places of public amusement, it is his intention to introduce a measure rendering it obligatory that, in future, the plans for theatres and all other places of public amusement shall be submitted for approval to an architect, to be appointed for that purpose by the Government, whose especial duty it shall be to see that every possible provision shall be made against the danger of fire, and who should also see that proper and sufficient means of exit shall be provided in all such buildings?
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any and what instructions have been sent to the Minister at Montevideo for the protection of British subjects and property during the aggressions of Brazil against the Republic of Uruguay; and, whether any information has been received as to the state of blockade of any of the Monte Videan ports since the repulse of the Brazilian squadron before Paysandu, as reported in the public journals?
 MR. MALINS  said, he gave his cordial support to the measure; and would congratulate the Government that they had for the first time taken the matter in hand in a way that was likely to promote its success. It was not safe to indulge in prophecy, but, in contradistinction to the hon. and learned Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Selwyn), he would venture to prophecy that this measure would succeed. That it should do so was his most earnest hope, and he, together with his hon. and learned Friend, now deservedly elevated to the Bench, the late Member for Truro (Mr. Montague Smith), had last Session, as late as the month of June, urged upon the Government to proceed with this scheme. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge could not but be deeply impressed with the evils of the present system, but he appeared at the same time to be rather willing to submit to those evils than disposed to assist the Government in their effort to cure them. The two questions chiefly to be considered in connection with the scheme before the House were the benefit which the public would derive, and the mode in which the money was to be raised. The second point was one on which he would not dwell, but he had again and again urged the Government to take the money from the Consolidated Fund, and he still believed that that course would be preferable to defraying the expenses from the Suitors' Fund. At the same time, if there was in the opinion of the Government £1,000,000, which would give the Government what they wanted, and if the Government were prepared to give their guarantee to the public in case there was any other demand on this stock, they ought in this, as in other matters, to rely on the Government guarantee. This relieved him of all difficulty on this score, and in consequence he would discard all the arguments which had been advanced about the difficulties of having recourse to the Fund. He was satisfied, therefore, with the statement of the Attorney General; for he (Mr. Malins) could not believe that his hon. and learned
 191 192 193
 MR. MALINS  so understood it, and considered that the project would be one of the cheapest that ever was executed.
 MR. WESTERN  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to introduce any general measure for the extinction of Turnpike Trusts; and, if not, whether, in accordance with the recommendation contained in the Report of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the expediency of abolishing Turnpike Trusts, he proposes to deal with those Trusts that are free from debt by omitting them from the annual Continuance Act?
 MR. SCULLY  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Is it intended, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, to introduce early this Session a Bill to register or to record the Titles to Land in Ireland?
 MR. SCULLY  said, that the concentration of the law courts was not an experiment; it had been tried in Ireland with the most complete success. Upon an area much less than seven acres and a half all the Courts of Law and Equity were concentrated in Dublin. The Hall of the Dublin Pour Courts, as they were called, used to be a lounge for barristers and attorneys to gossip away their idle time; but that evil was cured by the establishment of a library where the members of the Bar attended to their chamber business, and left the hall comparatively deserted. There were fifteen courts under one roof in Dublin, besides solicitors' rooms and an abundance of offices, and coffee and refreshment rooms in the wings. All that was required for the metropolis was a similar building, but upon a larger scale. All the courts in London, except the Rolls Court, were inferior to the worst of the fifteen courts in Dublin; and the London Rolls Court was not equal to some
 197
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : No doubt it would lapse. The matter is one which may, perhaps, be more conveniently considered hereafter, and it is entirely collateral to the main objects of the Bill; but if we constitute this leasehold interest, I think we ought, in fairness, to provide that it shall not become wholly valueless to the lessee simply on the ground of bankruptcy. In answer to the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby), copies of the Bill will be ready for distribution upon the Report of the Resolutions; the second reading will be taken on an early day; and I should only propose to go into Committee after two or three weeks, so that time will be afforded for the consideration of these proposals. As I have said, it is entirely a voluntary Bill; but, of course, it is desirable that the provisions of the measure should be clearly understood, and that all those who are invited to come under it should have the opportunity of considering whether it is well adapted to effect the object in view.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the effect of the Resolution which I have now to propose is that remuneration of the Bank of Ireland for management of the Public Debt in Ireland should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund after the 6th of April, 1865. Upon this Resolution, also, there will be founded a Bill, and that Bill has two objects. The first is to introduce into the arrangements between the Government and the Bank of Ireland those regular and approved principles which have been applied in the arrangements between the Government and the Bank of England—that is to say, instead of taking service from the Bank and placing a privilege against it as a set off, the Bank of Ireland will in future receive payment in money from the State for whatever services it performs. But it is not for a mere rectification of accounts alone that the Bill is introduced. That is all, indeed, which is involved by the Resolution. But the nature of the Bill is best explained by the correspondence which has been laid upon the table, and was circuculated yesterday morning. It will be noticed that the Bank of Ireland has applied to the Government urging that they are insufficiently remunerated for their services, and that changes have taken place in the state of public accounts, kept by the Bank, which are of such a nature as to entitle them to ask for a modification of their existing arrangements. Upon examination, I find that the allegations of the Bank of Ireland are well founded, and that the demand for an additional charge on the public is just and reasonable. I will not trouble the House with details, unless difficulties should arise on any stage of the Bill, because if any Gentleman spends ten minutes in reading the correspondence which has taken place, he will become entire master of the subject; but the practical effect of the Bill will be this—that while, on the one hand, the interest on the loan from the Bank of Ireland to the State will be reduced to the same rate as is paid
 157 "That it is the opinion of this Committee that the remuneration to the Bank of Ireland for management of the Public Debt in Ireland should be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from and after the 6th day of April, 1865."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In answer to the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave), I may say that under this Bill a lease will be granted to the bank taking advantage of it—a distinct lease for a term of years. A distinct right, something in the nature of property of a definite character, would thus arise. If that be so, and such a bank became bankrupt,  primâ facie
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise, Sir, for the purpose of proposing two Resolutions, which, if adopted by the Committee, will be the foundation of a Bill which it will be my duty to introduce; and I will now proceed to explain in a few words the nature of these Resolutions. But first of all, I will make a few statements which will tend to obviate any misapprehension or exaggeration as to the nature of this proposal. In the first place, this is a proposal which does not bear in any material or palpable manner upon any of the important questions connected with the issue of bank notes. It is not properly to be considered as a currency measure. In the second place, it is
 151 152 153 £2 5s. 154 "That it is expedient to make provision for empowering Country Banks of Issue to obtain relief from certain restrictions, upon payment from time to time of a certain charge in respect thereof."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If the Question of my hon. Friend refers to the introduction of any legislative measure for limiting the rights of the Crown, my answer to him would be that I look upon it as a matter of law—of constitutional law—rather than a measure of finance, and it would have to be considered in that point of view. But my hon. Friend's Question, as I understand it, refers rather to the office regulations under which the important Department of the Legacy Duties is conducted; and with regard to that subject, my answer to him is that, not exclusively as regards the points raised in the Question, but as regards the general procedure of that Department, in November last the Treasury addressed to the Board of Inland Revenue an instruction directing them to institute a review of the existing system, with the view of ascertaining whether any improvements could be introduced into it, with a due regard to the interests of the revenue, and the satisfactory and expeditious transaction of business. I need not say that my hon. Friend, who is so well aware of the difficult and intricate nature of that Department,
 135
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is not the intention of Government to propose at present any general measure for the extinction of Turnpike Trusts; but, in accordance substantially with the recommendation of the Select Committee, it is proposed, with the exception of some very special cases, to omit from the annual Continuance Act trusts that are free from debt.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there was no intention at present to introduce a Bill requiring that the plans of theatres and all places of public resort—for it could not be confined merely to places of amusement—should be submitted to a Government architect before those places were built; but the subject to which the Question referred—namely, the construction of those buildings, so as to provide security against fire, and for the safety of the public in the event of fire—was one no doubt of great importance, and deserved careful consideration. As regarded theatres, it must be borne in mind that they were regulated by law. They must all be licensed—those in London by the Lord Chamberlain, and those in the country by justices of the peace. In the case of the London theatres, the Lord Chamberlain had established very stringent regulations within the last few years, which had effected great improvements in the construction of the buildings, and in providing egress in case of accidents; and, in the case of a new theatre, the Lord Chamberlain would refuse his licence unless the building should be constructed in such a manner as to provide every precaution against fire, and also adequate means of egress. Music halls and other places of the like kind in the metropolis were also licensed by the
 137
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Question referred in terms only to the powder magazines belonging to the Government; but perhaps it would be better that he should state the course which the Government had taken in respect to powder magazines generally, since the lamentable explosion at Erith. In November last the Secretary for War appointed a committee of five officers, of which Sir John Burgoyne was Chairman, to investigate the present state of gunpowder magazines in the different places under the War Department, and to report as to the measures which could be adopted, consistently with the requirements of the public service, for giving increased security to persons residing in their neighbourhood. That committee was diligently prosecuting its inquiries, and in the course of it had suggested practical improvements which could be carried into effect at once. The subject, however, was such a large one that some time must elapse before the committee could present their General Report. In addition to that, Captain Boxer had been directed to inquire into the causes and circumstances attending the explosion at Erith. He had done so, and had made a very full Report. He was subsequently instructed by him (Sir George Grey), with the consent of the Secretary of War, to inquire into the state of gunpowder magazines generally throughout the country,
 136
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  thought that sufficient time should be given to every bank of issue to clearly understand the propositions contained in the Bill. He wished to know what steps would be taken to acquaint the banks with these proposals?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he listened with great pleasure to the able and eloquent speech of the learned Attorney General; but he owned that his finance did not inspire him with much confidence, and he trusted that the House would be careful before it came to a decision upon this point. It might or might not be desirable to spend a million and a half or two millions of money in the concentration of the law courts; but he thought the House would be unwise if it disguised from itself the way in which the funds were to be obtained. His belief was that a large proportion must come out of the pockets of the taxpayers, and, if so, the fact ought to be avowed. The cost of the buildings was now estimated at £1,500,000, but the House must not forget that they had on the table a Treasury Minute, in which it was stated that a
 178
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty, To lay upon the table of the House Admiral Dacres' Report relative to the sailing qualities, &c, of the armour-plated ships, so that it might be considered with the Estimates?
 SIR JOHN WALSH , masking the First Lord of the Treasury for information relative to the circumstances which had led to the notice given by the Government of the United States of North America to terminate the Convention under which England and the United States mutually engaged not to fit out Naval Armaments upon the Canadian Lakes; also respecting the abrogation of the Treaty of Commerce between the Provinces of British North America and the United States concluded by the late Lord Elgin; and to move for all Papers and Correspondence connected with these subjects—said: Sir, it appears to me that this subject is one of such importance that it not only affords ample justification for the course I am about to take, but renders it incumbent on the House to take the earliest opportunity of inquiring into it, and makes it the imperative duty of Her Majesty's Government to give the most ample information which, consistently with their public duty, it is their power to supply. I venture to say that no mere promise, no formal stereotyped reply, should be placed in the way of affording the House and the country the fullest information on the state of our relations with the United States, with which both the House and the country ought to be made acquainted. I will add, that if I thought the information was imperatively necessary before, my opinion has been confirmed by the perusal of the papers which have been this morning placed in the hands of Members. It appears to me that these papers, as far as they go, render the matter doubly obscure, and leave a  hiatus hiatus 142 143 144 145 146 d. 2d. 147 148
 MR. CAVE  asked for further information as to the proposed compensation for issues in the event of the bankruptcy of any bank which had availed itself of the Bill.
 MR. CAVE : But surely—and become valueless? The right of issue would lapse upon bankruptcy?
 MR. BOVILL  concurred in the opinion that those members of the profession who were also Members of the House would individually have reason to prefer that things should remain as at present. The members of the Bar were almost unanimous in favour of a concentration of the law courts, and it was of the greatest importance to the administration of justice that this measure should be agreed to. It was now not uncommon for the Queen's Bench to require three different courts for its own accommodation. The court sat  in Banco Nisi Prius. 195 196
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I certainly am not going to follow the hon.
 149 150
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Irish mail service had of late been performed very irregularly. During the year 1864 the occasions on which the contract time was not exceeded had been comparatively few. The consequence had been that the Government and the Post Office authorities had felt considerable dissatisfaction, and the Post Office authorities had recently expressed it to the contractors. The Government had not been able to enforce the penalty clause of the contract of 1859, because that clause was by the contract suspended until the Government had provided the necessary pier accommodation. As the hon. Member was aware, works had during
 205
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that a Bill on the subject was in preparation, but he could hardly say he was prepared to introduce it this Session.
 LORD STANLEY  asked the Secretary of State for India, Whether he will lay Papers on the table showing the present
 207
 SIR JAMES ELPHINTSTONE  asked the Secretary of State for India, If anything as yet has been determined on towards replacing the defective moorings that were carried away bodily during the cyclone of October last in the Calcutta river; and whether some more efficient plan or appliance ought not now to be tried, in order to prevent, as far as possible, the recurrence of similar shipping disasters?
 MR. COWPER  said, that the present arrangement was part of the original design, but it was one of which he never approved. In July last, he had requested Mr. Page to prepare a plan for the removal of the tramways from the centre to the side of the bridge. He thought it desirable that there should be tramways to facilitate the passage over the bridge of heavy vehicles, but that they should be constructed without flanges. Tramways in accordance with that plan would be laid down in about a month; the centre of the roadway, being macadamized and made smooth, would be reserved for light traffic.
 MR. COWPER  said, there would be no difficulty in furnishing a Return specifying the number of houses on the site in ques-
 209
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  asked the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite), as a Member of the Metropolitan Board of Works, The progress made in the Main Drainage of the Metropolitan District, and when the same will probably be completed?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had faithfully redeemed the pledge which he gave to the House in the last Session, to deal with this important sub-
 221 222
 MR. NEATE  said, that one of the great difficulties at present experienced was the want of uniformity in the treatment of prisoners. The Lord Chief Justice had recently stated that the treatment was so different in different counties that the Judges did not know what they were sentencing a prisoner to when they sentenced him to twelve months' imprisonment. Now he (Mr. Neate) did not think the provisions of the Bill sufficient to secure that uniformity. The only security for ensuring uniformity was that the Treasury should withhold its payments if the regulations were not complied with. He agreed with the hon. Baronet who had just spoken, that the State ought to be more liberal in its dealings with the country magistrates; but, in return, the State ought to exact a greater control over the treatment of the prisoners. He held that the appointment of the Governors of the county prisons ought to be subject to the approval of the Home Secretary, in the same manner as the managers of workhouses were subject to the approval of the President of the Poor Law Board, and they should not be dismissed without the approval of the Secretary. A very remarkable election to a county gaol had lately taken place in the West Riding, and it was his intention to bring that subject under the notice of the House, if possible, to-morrow, by moving for a Return in connection with that election.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not propose to interfere with the understanding referred to by the hon. Member for Sheffield, as existing in the House; but he thought it necessary, having six times opposed the passing of this Bill, and it passed the House by a majority of only two last Session, to beg the House to allow him to state distinctly that his objection to the principle of the Bill remained totally unabated. The hon. Member was a very skilled and successful blockade-runner up to a certain point. He had six times, by dexterous management, induced that House to allow the Bill to go to the House of Lords, and six times it had been rejected by that House. Perhaps the House would allow him to refer to the substance of this Bill. In 1828, when the Test and Corporation Acts were repealed, it was enacted that members of the municipal corporations, and the high officers of State, as well as other officials, should make a declaration that they would use no power accruing to them, and no influence accruing to them by virtue of their office, for the purpose of attacking the Church of England, or dispossessing the bishops or clergy, or the Church as a corporation, of
 211 212
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that no such Act had passed the Legislative Council, and consequently he could not lay it upon the table of the House. In a proposed measure for the enactment of a code of civil procedure, as it had first been circulated, there were clauses of the nature indicated by the question of the hon. and learned Gentleman; but it was not now intended to submit those clauses in the form in which they then stood to the Council. No object, therefore, would be attained by laying them upon the table. Before the proposed code could come into operation, it must be sent here for the approval of the home authorities; a long time, therefore, must elapse before it could take effect.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the question of the distribution of the Central Indian prize money had been the subject of discussion in that House last Session, and that his noble Friend at the head of the Government had then announced it to be his intention to abide by the decision of the Admiralty Court with respect to it. That decision had not yet been pronounced, and no distribution could in the meantime take place.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that a despatch had been addressed to the Government of India at Calcutta, calling
 208
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that had it not been necessary to go back some time in order to make the history of those transactions intelligible, he should have laid the papers on the table as soon as Parliament met; but they were in course of preparation, and would be produced as soon as they were ready. The extent of our acquisition would be confined to the occupation of a line of forts to protect our own territory.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that in reference to Abingdon Gaol the point to be considered was, whether the Home Secretary should take the opinion of a gentleman who was avowedly interested in the locality, or whether he should act on the authority of the Government Inspectors and of a Committee of the House of Lords. As the right hon. Gentleman now seemed inclined to hear both sides, he had no doubt he would be favoured with much further information. The dissension that prevailed in the county on this subject had resulted in a compromise of a peculiar nature—namely, that the civil business should be transacted at Reading, and that then the proceedings should be adjourned to Abingdon to complete the criminal business. In this way twenty-two prisoners had been taken from Reading to meet two prisoners at Abingdon and be tried there. Such a state of things ought not to continue. He must, therefore, support the proposal of the hon. Member for the county (Mr. Walter) that this gaol should be restored to its place in the schedule, and he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would in the meantime take an opportunity of learning what the opinion of the county was upon this subject.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  reminded the House that it was discussing a point not as yet raised in the proposal of the Government. Abingdon at present was only conspicuous by its absence from the Bill, yet five speeches had already been made on the subject, and promises had been made of many more on the same subject on future occasions. With respect to the Bill itself, the country would be deeply indebted to the Home Secretary if he succeeded in consolidating, in a satisfactory manner, the law relating to gaols. He had attended carefully to the statement of the right hon. Baronet; and seeing many of the difficulties he had alluded to, he agreed that a Committee of the Whole House would not be so likely to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion as a Committee upstairs.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, this Bill having been repeatedly discussed, he introduced it—acting upon the recommendation which had been made to him by one or two Gentlemen for whose opinions he had the highest respect—with a view to its being referred to a Select Committee, and on the understanding that that course was to be adopted, he moved that the Bill be read a second time.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet whether he did not think the case was one which suggested his interference without regard to any memorial with respect to it.
 MR. BRIGHT : I should like to know whether the memorial was presented to the right hon. Gentleman before the date of the confession of the murder alleged to have been made by another Italian.
 MR. LOCKE  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it is intended to remove the obstructions erected along the centre of the carriage road over Westminster Bridge; and why heavy vehicles are now not allowed to pass along the tramways, for the convenience of which, it was said, they were constructed; and why light vehicles are now compelled to pass along these tramways, contrary to the original arrangement?
 MR. NORRIS  said, there had been repeated discussions of the subject at the Quarter Sessions in the last ten years, but out of ten divisions there had been six in favour of the gaol, and four only for its removal. The county was almost equally divided on the subject: the majority of the magistrates were desirous that the Sessions should always be held at Reading, but the majority of the inhabitants desired that they should be held at Abingdon, and, therefore, desired that the gaol should be retained. Now, as the convenience of the ratepayers was involved in the retention of the gaol, he hoped no further steps would be taken to do away with it.
 MR. VANCE  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, The cause of the delay in supplying the Irish Constabulary and Police with their clothing; and if any arrangements are made to prevent the recurrence of it in future?
 MR. VANCE  asked, whether another Irish firm had not the contract last year?
 MR. WALTER  asked the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has any objection to lay on the table of the House a Return showing the number of houses at present standing on the site proposed to be taken by the Government for the erection of the new Courts of Law, and also the amount of the Population residing in those Houses?
 MR. WALTER  thought that the reasons which had been just alleged by his hon. Friend were quite sufficient to induce the House to consent that Abingdon Gaol should be included in the schedule, with a view to the subject being considered by the Select Committee. That was all the favour he (Mr. Walter) sought. The county of Berks had been in a state of dissension for many years past, owing to the continuance of the gaol, which had been a great bone of contention. The specific advantage which his hon. Friend the Member for Abingdon (Mr. Norris) claimed for the gaol would scarcely be sufficient to induce the House to retain it. His hon. Friend did not speak of it as a gaol required for the accommodation of prisoners, for that was not the case, but merely looked to the local convenience of jurymen, who would have to come twice a year to Abingdon. That was about the sum and substance of the advantage of retaining the gaol. But, on the other hand, it entailed a loss upon the county of £500 a year. As it was impossible to dispose of the question except by legislation, he thought the House would hardly refuse to refer it to the Select Committee, and when the time should come, he should make a Motion with that object.
 CAPTAIN ARCHDALL  reminded the Chief Secretary for Ireland that during last Session he had complained that Sir Henry Brownrigg had put an interpretation upon the Poaching Amendment Act entirely different from that put upon it by the English Courts; the consequence of which was that it was practically inoperative in Ireland. The right hon. Baronet had held out some expectation that Sir Henry Brownrigg would be requested to revise his decision; but he (Captain Arch-dall) had recently ascertained that the instructions to the police as to apprehending persons carrying game or poaching materials remained unaltered. He trusted that the right hon. Baronet would give the subject his earliest attention.
 MR. HASSARD  asked the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If it is his intention to introduce any Bill for the alteration of the Laws relating to Grand Juries in Ireland; and, if it is his intention so to do, if he will lay such Bill upon the table of the House in sufficient time to be submitted to the several Grand Juries now about to assemble in Ireland?
 MR. SCULLY  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Has the attention of Her Majesty's Government been recently directed to the great and increasing delays and irregularities in performing the Irish Mail Service, under the Postal Contract of the 3rd of January, 1859; and is it intended, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, either to determine that contract soon after the 1st of October next, or to place the Postmaster General in a position to enforce its due performance, pursuant to the 10th and 11th clauses, in accordance with the Report made on the 14th of July, 1863, by the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the state of Holyhead Harbour?
 MR. COX  asked, When the Central Indian prize money will be distributed?
 MR. TITE  said, he would endeavour to answer the two Questions of the noble Lord. The main drainage was very nearly completed. On the Surrey side, with one or two slight exceptions, the drainage was entirely completed; the exceptions were, a short length of sewer at Putney, and the setting to work of the pumping engines at Crosness. On the Middlesex side there were three lines of sewers. The high level was entirely finished, and so was the middle level. These were in a state of complete operation, and the intentions
 206
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that when Bills were brought in referring to statutes which required great alterations, all the former laws ought to be repealed, and the whole brought under one Act. His brother magistrates would bear him
 220
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  asked the Attorney General, Whether, in pursuance of his engagement of last Session, he is prepared to introduce a Bill, at an early period of the present Session, to alter the law of Forfeiture on conviction of Felony?
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  wished to remark with regard to Abingdon Gaol that the Court of Quarter Sessions had expressed an opinion that it was unnecessary. The average number of prisoners in it was
 219
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had represented to the right hon. Gentleman that this was not a question to be dealt with by Act of Parliament, but that it ought to be left to the decision of the magistrates of the county. It had been represented to the Home Secretary that the magistrates were agreed as to the necessity of abolishing Abingdon Gaol; but he had informed the right hon. Gentleman that this was not so, and that the Inspector had been completely misled in the Report he had made. The fact was, that at the Reading end of the county property was much divided, and the consequence was that the magistrates there far outnumbered those at the Abingdon end; so that the question of Abingdon Gaol having been for many years a sort of party question, when a whip of the magistrates at the Reading end was made, no sufficient force could be brought up on the other side to counterbalance them. But the interests of the Abingdon end of the county ought not to be forgotten; and he trusted, there-
 223
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I have given no directions on the subject. A memorial with respect to the case generally has been presented to me by Italians, and it is now under the consideration of the Judges who tried the case. I have not yet received their report upon it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to consolidate and amend the law relating to prisons, said: In the course of last year I proposed and obtained leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to prisons. That measure was founded mainly on the recommendations of the Select Committee of the House of Lords, which sat in the preceding Session; and the object of the Bill was to give effect to certain of those recommendations with' a view to insure greater uniformity both in the construction of prisons and in the discipline and treatment of the prisoners, and also to insure the enforcement of sentences of hard labour, with respect to which the evidence taken before the Select Committee showed that there had been, in some instances, great defects under the existing law. The Bill contained some provisions, also in accordance with the Report of the Committee, for the discontinuance of certain prisons, either unnecessary from local circumstances, or which from their construction and size, or from the smallness and inefficiency of their staffs, were utterly inadequate for the purpose for which they were intended—namely, the proper confinement of prisoners. That Bill was read a second time by a considerable majority, and its principle generally approved. But among those who approved its principle and supported the second reading, there were differences of opinion with regard to the extent to which it should be applied, some thinking that it did not go far enough, and that certain provisions were omitted which ought to be included in any efficient Bill for the amendment of the prison law.
 213 pro formâ, Geo. Geo. 214 215 216 217 218
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I really think
 210
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the facts upon which the application for his interference was based were contained in the memorial which had been drawn up by certain Italian gentlemen and presented to him through the Italian Minister, and that he had taken the only course open to him, which was to refer it immediately to the Judges for their opinion.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  asked the Secretary of State for India, Whether the Legislative Council of India have passed an Act enabling District and other Judges in
 204
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Yes; but not for the same work as is to be done by the Limerick firm.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the clothing in question had formerly been supplied by the War Department, but this year the experiment had been made of giving the contract to a firm at Limerick, and some delay had occurred in the deliveries. He hoped that the question of the hon. Gentleman would not, as it might, produce any inconvenience to the securities for the contract.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that in the course of the discussion last year upon the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for Waterford, which the House refused to read a second time, his right hon. and learned Friend the late Attorney General for Ireland and himself undertook to consider this question during the recess. They had considered it; but, as they had not received from any part of Ireland a single representation that the present sys-tern was not working satisfactorily, or in favour of any measure upon the subject, they hud not thought it right to recommend the introduction of any Bill upon the subject.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  moved for leave to introduce a Bill to extend the powers now vested in justices of the peace to grant licences to deal in game to the divisional magistrates within the police district of Dublin metropolis.
 MR. LAWSON  asked the Secretary for the Home Department, Whether he has made arrangements to delay the execution, fixed for next Wednesday morning, of Pelizzioni, the Italian convict, now under sentence of death for the murder committed at Saffron Hill?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that any proposition for the amendment of the law coming before the House on the authority of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Fitzroy Kelly) was deserving of favourable
 261
 MR. AYRTON  believed that the provisions of the Act were seriously considered last year, and it would be a breach of faith with those who had acquiesced in the Act if it were so soon altered. If a power of selecting certain houses to be exempt from the Act were given to the police, it might be made to operate most unfairly. He should like to see the example set by  The Times
 MR. LEFROY , before referring to one of the cases which the hon. Member for Cork had brought before the House, begged to thank him for the interest which he appeared to take in promoting the advancement of the Established Church in Ireland. He had gone beyond any Gentleman of his own religion in touching upon the affairs of the Church of Ireland. He could not understand what had inspired the interest of the hon. Member, or what had induced him to occupy the time of the House for nearly an hour in commenting on the mode of administering the internal affairs of the Church in the diocese of Cork. If the hon. Gentleman had intended to hand over the revenues to his own Church, he could understand it; but at present he was at a loss to know what could have led him to take such a course. The right hon. Baronet, in respect to two of the livings to which reference had been made, had given a satisfactory explanation, and he (Mr. Lefroy) would now state a few particulars respecting the appointment made by the Bishop of Cork; not that he thought the case a very important one, but because when an opportunity presented itself of meeting any specific charge against the Irish Church he thought it right and proper to do so. The Bishop was most distinguished for his conduct as a Christian minister and for his preaching. He never sought for patronage. The archdeaconry which he previously held was forced upon him by Lord Carlisle, and his appointment to the bishopric was unsought by him and was quite unexpected. With respect to the appointment in this
 248
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked the Secretary for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, during the present Session, any measure for the annexation of British Kaffraria to the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked, whether the right hon. Gentleman was aware that a petition against any such measure had been drawn up by the inhabitants of British Kaffraria.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether it is intended to fill up the office of the one Secretary of the Poor Law Board, rendered capable of sitting or voting as a Member of the Commons' House of Parliament by the ninth clause of the Poor Law Act, now understood to have been vacated by the hon. Member for Northampton; also, whether that Department of the Executive Government required that it should be represented on the Treasury Bench by two highly salaried officers?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would refer to some papers laid on the table of the House last night, he would find the whole question of the money paid to M. de Michele, the Consul General at St. Petersburg, was gone into. This sum had been paid by the company from time immemorial. When M. Michele received the appointment fifteen years ago it was with the understanding that he should receive such sum in part payment of his salary. He had received it ever since, and Her Majesty's Government could not deprive him of this source of emolument without doing him a great injustice. They would, in fact, have to give him some adequate compensation. Now the tax did not in any way interfere with British shipping. If M. Michele did not receive it other persons would receive it. At the same time, Her Majesty's Government thought it was wrong in principle that a public servant should receive pay from sources other than that of the Government, and whenever M. Michele retired from St. Petersburg it was not intended that this sum should be received by his successor.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, it was not his intention to move the reappointment of a Committee of Inquiry on this subject. It was investigated by the Committee referred to by the hon. Gentleman, who took into their consideration the evidence taken in the course of two previous inquiries in that House, and came to the conclusion not to take further evidence.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply to the first Question, that a Sanitary Commission had been some time ago appointed, and that they had made a report on the subject to the Government of India. He, however, had as yet received no account of what had been done in consequence of that report. It was, he might add, the intention of the Government to send out the troops to India overland.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he had already laid on the table papers showing what was the state of things which prevailed in the Cape Colony. He would, without delay, give notice of his intention to bring in a Bill on the subject of the hon. Gentleman's Question.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill for the further amendment of the law of evidence and practice in certain courts of justice, said, that the expectations which had been held out in Royal Speeches, and other speeches of almost equally high authority, of large measures of law reform, had not been realized to the satisfaction of the community. Those, therefore, who, like himself, were unencouraged, and unsupported by the Government, must content themselves with attempting those reforms of which the obvious or urgent necessity afforded a reasonable hope of passing them through Parliament. Among the questions which had recently forced themselves upon public attention was that of the admissibility of parties as witnesses in courts of justice. The history of that question was somewhat remarkable. From the earliest times, upon the trial of any case, civil or criminal, everyone who was interested to the extent of a single shilling in the matter in issue was disqualified as a witness, and scarcely a day passed unmarked by a failure of justice on that account. Lord Denman was the first to bring forward a measure upon the subject, and an Act was passed some thirty years ago which put an end to all disqualifications upon the ground of interest, but until 1851 the law was in this strange condition, that, whereas, beyond all question, the parties to a suit were those among mankind who of all others were best, and in some cases exclusively, acquainted with the real facts of the case, and with the best means of bringing out the whole truth, they were disqualified as witnesses. In 1851, however, through the persevering efforts of Lord Brougham, an Act was passed—not without much opposition from high authorities on the Bench and at the Bar, and from statesmen in either House of Parliament, and not without grave doubts being expressed as to the possible consequences of the measure—rendering parties in civil suits, with some exceptions, admissible as witnesses. That Act was universally allowed to have operated most beneficially in leading to the discovery of truth and in bringing out the real merits of every case to which the Act applied, to a degree, indeed, which the warmest supporters of the measure had scarcely ventured to anticipate. That Act contained certain exceptions, and among
 258 "Dear Sir Fitzroy,—You ask me how the present law of evidence works in the Divorce Court: I answer that it works a great anomaly, and a still greater injustice;—an anomaly, for the parties to the suit are admissible witnesses in some suits, even on the question of adultery, while in others they are excluded, not only on the question of adultery, but on all others, such as cruelty, condonation, desertion, amp;c.; and this for no reason but that the form of the suit differs;—a great injustice, for as the law now stands, the sayings, writings, and acts of the accused are all given in evidence against him, and he is obliged to stand by and hear them without the power of one word to explain them away. I do not hesitate to say that this is a grievous hardship to the individual, and a great impediment to the discovery of truth. I will only add that these evils would be efficiently cured by a law which should lender the parties admissible in all cases, but compellable on the question of adultery in none. And I can see no evil likely to attend such a law, except the inevitable lengthening of trials thereby, as has happened in the common law courts.—"Yours very truly, JAMES WILDE." 259 260
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he believed that Manchester and Liverpool had almost unanimously adopted the Act, and had felt the benefit of its operation, and therefore he hoped that nothing would be done which would infringe upon the principle of it.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the principle ought to be extended to criminal cases. If, for instance, Mr. Bewicke had been allowed to give evidence, he would most likely have broken down the case, and all the painful consequences that followed would have been prevented.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that he wished the House to inquire what was the cause of these bitter discussions which arose from time to time as to the affairs of the Irish Church? Was it not a fact, that in a population of 5,700,000 less than 700,000 belonged to the State Church? Was it not the fact that £650,000 a year was given to its clergy for the spiritual care of the minority, while the majority were wholly unprovided for? He was glad to say that in every sense there were five millions of their fellow subjects in Ireland who were not cared for by the State Church in the slightest degree. That was not a very popular subject in the House, and was generally got rid of as soon as possible; but that was like damming up a mighty river which, nevertheless, would overflow its banks very shortly. It was high time to meet the question of the Church of Ireland in the face. They might put it aside for a time, but it would are long force itself to be heard. He thought the people of Ireland had just cause to complain that this mark of conquest yet remained to cast a gloom over their noble country. He trusted the time was approaching when the Government would seriously attempt its removal, and that the House would be tormented no more with the complaints of the hon. Member for the county of Cork, or in any other way. He (Mr. Hadfield) would earnestly support any attempt to get rid of this mischievous Church, which he did not regard merely as a political, but as a religious question. If it were done away with, the greatest hindrance to the best interests of the people of Ireland, in a religious sense, would be removed. He objected to the Church of Ireland, not so much as a political institution, but as a grievous obstacle in the country to the spread of Christian principles and benevolence.
 MR. CLAY  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he can give any
 235
 MR. CLAY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is intended any longer to permit Her Majesty's Consul General at St. Petersburg to supplement his salary by a tax, known as agency money levied on British Shipping, and received by him as Agent for the Russia Company?
 MR. ROEBUCK  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Is it the intention of
 232
 MR. ROEBUCK : The right hon. Gentleman says he will confine the inquiry to
 234
 MR. VANCE  protested against the question of the Church of Ireland being brought before the House by a side-wind. Let the question be brought fairly before the House, and it would be fully met and completely answered. Neither in this country nor in Ireland were the incomes of clergymen regulated by the exact number of their congregations; and with regard to the clergy in the south of Ireland, who at great inconvenience to themselves devoted their energies to the small congregations, endeavouring to extend their numbers, which he was happy to say were gradually increasing, deserved credit at
 250
 MR. RICHARD LONG  asked the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he proposes to reappoint the Select Committee on the Poor Laws, with the view of further inquiry into the position and the grievances of medical officers of Poor Law Unions?
 MR. WALPOLE : I understand that my right hon. Friend proposes to lay the terms of the Commission upon the table. Might it not be advantageous both to the Government and the House, and also to the community, that he should move an Address to the Crown for the appointment of a Commission, so as to give him an opportunity of either adding to or modifying the terms which he may lay upon the table?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that inquiry had been made at St, Petersburg, and three or four reports on the subject had been received. He believed that these reports showed that these dues were supported very much by the principal merchants' houses in St. Petersburg, and he did not think that any interference, in a direct manner, on the part of Her Majesty's Government would be either useful or practical. So long as the merchants themselves supported the system it was not necessary that there should be any interference. Although the dues were heavy, yet the charges paid by British shipping were not heavier than the charges paid by the ships of other countries, and therefore could not be regarded as differential charges upon British shipping.
 MR. SCULLY  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Is it intended, on the part of the Government, to give any notice, or to introduce any Bill during the present Session, with a view to the revision of the tolls, fares, and charges, or to the purchase of any Railways in the United Kingdom; or is it intended to institute any Parliamentary inquiry into the policy of revision and purchase, upon general and national grounds, as contemplated by the Act 7 amp; 8  Vict. 236
 MR. SCULLY , in reply, said, he had no intention whatever of giving personal offence to either the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, to the Bishop of Cork, who was a very good Bishop for a Protestant, or to the right hon. Baronet, as he was sure they had no reason to be ashamed of what they had done, and he individually was perfectly satisfied with the explanations of the latter, who had got rid of a troublesome opponent. If the figures he had laid before the House were wrong, he could not be held responsible for the mistake, as he had taken them from public documents. He should be willing to take the Returns in the form offered by the Chief Secretary.
 MR. SCULLY  rose to call attention to the recent exercise of public patronage with reference to the benefices or parishes of Clonpriest, Farrahy, and Carrigrohane, in the county of Cork, and to move for certain Returns in reference thereto. The facts which he was about to state furnished a very fair illustration of the position of the Established Church in Ireland, on which, however, he wished to make no attack. He had not selected the three instances, but had taken the three last presentations to vacant benefices in the county he represented, as offering very fair samples of the general condition of the Established Church in Ireland, and for what purposes an institution was kept up of which the Irish Secretary said a single stone should not be disturbed. There were some who wished the Irish Church to be abolished, such as the voluntaries in England; and others who only wished to see it reformed, and its revenues re-distributed. An Irish rector, writing in a Dublin newspaper, complained that the parishes of Grangegorman and Booterstown, near Dublin, each containing more than a thousand Protestants, were endowed with less than a curate's stipend, whilst parishes in the country, with less than twenty Protestants, gave their rectors £1,000 a year and upwards. In Kilfenora, a diocese in Clare, there were 22,789 Roman Catholics and 251 Protestants, but the members of the Established Church were provided with three churches (including a cathedral) capable of holding 560 persons, and with eight clergymen, including dignitaries, and an official called a vicar general. Kilmacduagh, another Irish diocese, with similar endowments, contained 24,333 Catholics, and only 434 Protestants. From  Thorn's Almanac, Census Returns, Church Directory, 240 Clergy List— Cork Constitution, Clergy List s. d. s. d. 241 Thorn's Almanac 242 243 "Like the Bastile of Paris, have the building itself removed—its very materials, the brick and mortar I mean—as well for the moral benefit of Dublin as of all Ireland, The whole concern has dwindled until it is something like a competition between rogues. Consanguinity is the path to public posts of emolument and honour." "All this may be equally bad in England, but there the corruption is distributed over a wider surface. Here the social servility of the professions—legal, medical, and clerical—acts and reacts on each other, while all our sycophants in law, or physic, or divinity coalesce together against superior minds." Manchester Examiner Cork Constitution. 244 Returns, in tabular form, showing, as to each of those benefices or parishes; the date of the last presentation; the name or title of the patron; the name of the present incumbent; the annual value (including any glebe or glebe house); the church accommodation; and the population according to the Government Census of 1834 and 1861 respectively; distinguishing as to each parish the number of Protestants from the number of Roman Catholics.—( Mr, Scully.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he had always thought it was an outrageous injustice to a person charged with crime that he should be the only person whose mouth was closed, though he was generally the person who knew most of the circumstances of the case. He had witnessed a great number of trials in Ireland, and he did not recollect a single instance in which the ends of justice would not have been furthered if the party accused had been allowed to give evidence. He remembered the time when the parties to proceedings were not allowed to give evidence in Chancery or in common law; but now in nine cases out of ten their evidence instead of being excluded was the chief testimony.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to thank his hon. Friend for having afforded him an opportunity of stating how matters stood in reference to a subject of so much importance to a number of individuals, and of considerable public interest. By the sixth section of the Act of last year the tables for annuities and life assurances, or at all events the most important of them, were, when they' had been framed and approved by the Treasury, to be laid on the table of the House for thirty days before they could be acted upon. All those that related to life assurances had, in accordance with that provision, been laid on the table of the House on Friday last. Rules for the ge-
 239
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not the intention of the Government, under the circumstances to which he had already alluded, to introduce a Bill during the present Session with the view of acting on the Act of 1844; nor did the Government think it would be right to institute any inquiry with regard to the large question of policy in respect to railways at a time when they were about to take the measures necessary to ascertain their economical condition. As to the expediency of purchasing the railways in Ireland, he felt bound to say that his attention had been directed to the subject by his hon. Friend himself; but, at the same time, he did not deem himself authorized to enter upon the question, which was evidently a branch of a very large question. For the Government to entertain or enounce an opinion upon it would be quite premature. He, however, concurred with his hon. Friend in the opinion that the railways of Ireland, as was geographically clear, formed a case by themselves. They lay within a sphere comparatively limited, though still large, and were consequently more within reach than the general question of railway purchase. He might, perhaps, before resuming his seat, be allowed to answer one or two explanatory questions which had been put to him on a similar subject. He did not think the proper object of the Commission would be of an historical character, further than that historical details might grow out of its main purpose, which was to ascertain the economical facts of the case. He hoped, however, it would be found quite practicable to bring to bear upon those facts, either in connection with the statement of any existing difficulties or remedies, any matter in that point of view that might seem desirable. In answer to the Question put to him by his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), as to whether the Government would propose in that House an Address for the appointment of a Commission, he could only say that they had been ready and desirous to make hon. Members cognizant at the earliest moment of their intentions; but inasmuch as it was within the competency of the Crown to issue a Commission for the purpose, it appeared to the Government to belong to their position that they should take upon themselves the responsi-
 237
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply to Mr. G. PACKE, said, that while the State possessed certain powers by law with regard to railways, their proprietary rights were, so far as he was informed, as free from the interference of the Executive as any other proprietary rights in the country, and ought to be dealt with on the same footing.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am quite aware of the object of the lion, and learned Gentleman in asking this Question, and I will endeavour to give him a reply which shall be so perfectly definite as to admit of no misunderstanding as to the intentions of Her Majesty's Government, either on the part of the House or of the public. It is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to advise the Crown to appoint a Commission to inquire into the economical questions connected with our railway system—that is to say, into the cost of conveyance upon railways, and into the charges which are made by railway companies to the public. It is not their intention to take any step which could under any circumstances at all compromise or commit cither ourselves or Parliament with reference to any legislation upon a matter of this vast importance. The whole object of the measure that they propose to take is, to bring all the facts and information bearing upon the subject into a state in which it may be thoroughly available for Members of Parliament, and likewise for the public at large. Every one is quite aware that railway conveyance has now become one of the vital instruments by means of which the whole traffic and intercourse of this country are carried on, and, in point of fact, that it is the principal one among those instruments. Further, I think they are aware that the benefits derived by the country from the railway system have been in their own sphere immeasurable; and, of course, they are likewise aware that there are various difficulties which are found to exist in the application of the laws bearing upon the subject. For instance, that which is known as the provision for equal treatment under equal circumstances, is a matter which necessarily, and without the slightest blame to anyone, is full of difficulty in its application. It is known to Members of this House, and it is well known to Members of Her Majesty's Government, that a great feeling and a great anxiety exists among the productive classes of the community, not so much to
 233
 MR. COX  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend "The Public-house Closing Act 1864;" and in doing so begged to call the attention of the House to a few facts relative to that Act. It was introduced last Session for the express purpose of meeting a particular case. Great complaints had been made by the inhabitants and others as to the looseness with which certain houses in the Haymarket and its neighbourhood were conducted, and the evils arising from those houses being open all night. He had no possible objection to the Act, so far as those houses were concerned, but its operation put him in mind of the lines of the poet Cowper, in his description of Wit—
 "Wit undistinguishing is apt to strike The guilty and not guilty both alike." 252 253 Vict.
 MR. COX  said, that the refreshment rooms at railway stations were of no use to drovers who attended the Metropolitan Cattle Market. He had been in favour of the Act from its first introduction; but he contended that the 7th clause, which was intended to remove any injury that might arise from the operation of the Act, did not go far enough.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will inform the House when the Government intend to take the necessary measures for carrying into operation the Government Annuities Act passed last Session?
 MR. VANSITTART  asked the Secretary of State for India, Whether anything has been done to improve the sanitary state of Calcuttta; if so, whether he has any objection to produce papers relating to the same; and, whether it has been determined to relieve the European troops serving in India by the overland route; if so, whether any and what arrangements have been made for their transmission?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said: It is not my intention to offer any opposition to the introduction of the Bill; but the observations which have been made by the hon. aad learned Gentleman are such as, I think, render it incumbent on me to say a few words in reply. It is a mistake to suppose that the measure of last Session was brought forward merely to remedy those disorders which attracted so much attention in one particular part of the metropolis. The evils complained of from public-houses being kept open all night were by no means confined to the immediate neighbourhood of the Haymarket. They extended to other places. There can be no doubt that great disorder prevailed in the Haymarket in consequence of ill-regulated public-houses and refreshment-houses being kept open throughout the night. The Act applies to these and other parts of the metropolis, and to other places. For I am afraid that in all the large towns throughout the country there will be found persons licensed to keep public-houses who are anxious to make as much money as they can without being very particular as to the mode in which that is done. By the general body of licensed victuallers no opposition was offered to the passing of the measure, and its operation has, beyond all doubt, been most beneficial. Nor have its advantages been confined to London. So much appreciated have been its benefits that its provisions have been acted upon in many large towns throughout England, and ample evidence can be obtained of the immense advantages which have followed from its operation. I merely mention this to show the House what has been the effect of the Act, and in order that the Bill may be duly considered before any inroad is made upon its provisions. The hon. Gentleman complained that refreshment-houses were included within its operation, but if such houses were permitted to be kept open all night, those evils against which the Bill was directed would still continue. It was certainly intentional on the part of the Legislature that those houses were included, and I feel sure the House would not wish to exclude them from the operation of the Act. I am not prepared to deny that some cases of hardship do exist, owing to the present state of the law, but such instances must occur wherever general restrictions are imposed in the public interest. The hon. Gentleman says that the Act of
 255 bonâ fide The Times 256
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the hon. Gentleman has been longer than I expected in making his statement. It was not at all necessary for him to urge upon me the propriety of making a straightforward answer, for I will ask the House whether I have not always endeavoured as far as I can to answer him with distinctness. But while I was listening to my hon. Friend—if he will allow me to call him so—I could not help remembering that I had observed a remarkable silence on the part of the hon. Gentleman during the long vacation, and I now see to what it is to be attributed. During the long vacation he has been evidently studying mental arithmetic, and the earlier periods of the French revolution. But, at all events, I am quite ready to admit all the facts connected with the parishes if, as he says, they are taken from the Census Returns. The Census Returns are quite accurate. But it is not necessary, in alluding to those three parishes of Cork, to enter into a review of the position of the Established Church in Ireland. I can only attribute the eagerness which the hon. Gentleman as a Roman Catholic takes in promoting the interests of the Protestant Church, to the fact that he is desirous of contradicting a statement which I saw in the Irish newspapers some weeks ago, to the effect that the hon. Gentleman was not going to stand again for the county of Cork, but was about to transfer his services to Cashel, and he is naturally anxious to recommend himself to his old constituency. I will now very briefly allude to the three points to which the hon. Gentleman has directed
 245 246 247 Will.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman and the House that it was with great regret he had received the resignation of his hon. Friend the Member for Northampton (Mr. Gilpin); and he regretted it the more inasmuch as it
 238
 LORD NAAS  then moved the second reading of "A Bill to enable certain Companies to issue Mortgage Debentures founded on Securities upon, or affecting Land, and to make Provision for the Registration of such Mortgage Debentures and Securities." The history of this measure was somewhat peculiar. Last year
 263 264 265 266 "The land debentures in Prussia are issued by companies of landowners, which began to be formed in its different provinces in the year 1769 and the following years. In some of the provinces, it is optional with the proprietors to belong to them or not, as they please; in others they are obliged to do so, whether they wish to avail themselves of their advantages or not; or, in other words, all the property of the province goes security for the money borrowed by the companies." "In Germany one of the safest and most usual investments for small sums is a kind of land debenture. The mortgages there were divided into shares, and the documents which conferred the right to those shares were very generally in use
 267 "Land debentures effectually establish the credit of every owner of real property, inasmuch as he is enabled by their instrumentality to command a certain sum of ready money in proportion to the value of his estate. And while, on the one hand, the proprietor is free from the annoyance of having any loan on his estate suddenly called in, on the other hand the capitalist need not be paid off against his will. Every owner of property is thereby furnished with means of improving his estate, and paying off, if advisable, any joint partners or coheirs thereof that may exist." 268 269 Davidson's Precedents on Conveyancing 270
 MR. HENLEY  was glad that the Bill was to be referred to a Select Committee. He agreed with the noble Lord that the subject of it was most important. He saw no reason why landowners and mortgagees should not have "jobbers," as in the corn market—he meant by that, persons who came between lenders and borrowers. Everybody knew that there were parties who greatly wanted to borrow money, and that there were others who only wished to lend in driblets, and he, therefore, saw no objection to an intermediate party. Great public advantage would be the result if some such system could be established in the present case. But if, as the noble Lord had correctly stated, the present Bill was not an enabling Bill, why had he come to Parliament on the subject? Was it because it would furnish a kind of  quasi 272
 MR. AYRTON  said, everybody must admit that the landed interests had long been suffering from the great inconvenience and extreme difficulty of borrowing money upon land, and from the difficulty, not less great, of transferring loans and securities
 276 277
 MR. SCULLY  thought the noble Lord had brought his view of the question forward very clearly, and had made no mistakes as to legal details. The subject was one of the deepest interest, especially to the owners of land. He should not oppose the second reading of the noble Lord's Bill, as it, his own Bill, and that of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) on the same subject were to be referred to a Select Committee. He certainly could not say that he approved the details of this Bill or of its principle. The proper principle of a Bill of this kind was that of enabling landowners to raise money for the benefit of the landed interest, and not for the benefit of money jobbers. It practically gave to large companies a monopoly of the mortgages on land. On the face of the Bill these companies might borrow on any description of securities affecting land, but every one connected with the profession knew that there was only one sort of real security. Then again, he thought it most objectionable that money was to be advanced to the extent of three-fourths of the value on the mere certificate of a surveyor. There was a great similarity between this Bill and the Private Bill of last Session, for which Lord Redesdale had substituted a Public Bill in the House of Lords. It was a Bill that had been brought in for a private company, and he hoped the House would narrowly watch it, for it was not a Bill in the interest of landowners. As he understood the noble Lord's Bill, it contemplated the raising of £2,000,000, of which £100,000 was to be paid up. The remaining £1,900,000 was, under the last provision of the 3rd clause, to constitute the substantial security of the bondholders. The company was empowered to borrow on terminable annuities, which were no securities at all. His attention had been directed to this subject before the establishment of the Incumbered Estates Court; and an opinion of his own, written at the instance of a well known solicitor of those days, Mr. Pierce Mahony, contained a distinct recommendation of a plan for facilitating the transfer of estates, through
 273 in globo. quan 274 tum valeat. tabula rasa; 275 All the Year Hound,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the noble Lord was correct in his statement as to what had passed last year on the subject; and also when he said that the course which his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General thought it expedient should be taken with regard to this Bill, and the other Bills on the paper dealing with the same subject, was that they should be referred to a Select Committee. He thought the subject was one of great importance, and required most careful consideration, and, therefore, he proposed that the subject should be thoroughly investigated before a Select Committee. It must be distinctly understood, however, that in agreeing to read the Bill a second time, they were in no way committed to an adoption of the principle of the Bill, and were free to deal with it as they pleased when it emerged from the Committee.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he would take it for granted that the object which the hon.
 284 ad nauseam 285
 COLONEL DUNNE  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, If the Government intend to proceed at once with the publication of the Patent and Close Rolls and other Irish Records; in what form they will be published, and by whom and in what manner they are to be edited; and when the Brehon Laws would be published?
 MR. PEEL  said, the preparation of the Index or Calendar, like the English Calendar to the Chancery Rolls, had been placed in the hands of Mr. Morrow, an officer of the Irish Records Department. After some progress had been made in the work, and two or three volumes had been published, in consequence of complaints which were made in that House, and of a pamphlet which had obtained considerable circulation as to the imperfect manner in which the work had been executed, the Government directed the further progress of the work to be suspended, in order that an inquiry might be made into the merits of the publication. The Master of the Rolls in this country, at the request of the Government, appointed Mr. Duffus Hardy and Mr. Brewer to make the inquiry, and the result of their report had been to exculpate Mr. Morrow. Mr. Morrow had, however, expressed to the Master of the Rolls in Ireland his unwillingness to proceed with the work; but he proposed to prepare corrigenda to the volumes already published, and indexes to the names of persons and places. Under these circumstances, the publication of the work had been resumed. It was hoped that the Brehon Laws would be published this year, and an estimate of the expense would be laid before the House.
 MR. MILLER  asked the Secretary of State for India, When the Kirwee prize
 289
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the outlay would be only £200,000.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I think that if my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) had been present when this subject was discussed last Friday evening, he would have found some of the questions which he has asked to-night answered by anticipation. Nevertheless, I am very glad to take the opportunity of answering them again, and also of replying to other objections which have been raised either on that or on the present occasion. With regard to the site, my right hon. Friend is evidently conscious that the impression which he has formed is different from that which is almost universally entertained by other persons who have given their attention to the subject. The reason—independent of the want of space, which I venture to think is quite conclusive—against the idea of concentrating the courts of justice and offices at Westminster is this—that it would be perpetuating one of the most considerable evils which we wish to remedy by concentration—I mean the separation of the administration of justice in the Courts from those parts of the town where barristers have their chambers, in the Temple and Lincoln's Inn, and where solicitors in general have their
 300 301 302 303 304 305 306 307
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the Motion, but merely wished to guard himself against the supposition that he favoured the proposal. Much of what had been said by the right hon. Gentleman really had reference to points of detail, and he failed to collect from his statement why he had thought it necessary to divide the measure into two parts. The first sought to introduce a principle which was certainly rather unusual, and he doubted whether it would be for the public advantage to set the example of naming in Acts of Parliament the persons who were to be appointed to particular posts about to be created, instead of leaving the
 312
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, before the hon. and learned Gentleman should reply to the questions which had been put, he wished to know whether his attention had been called to the subject of the site. The site was said to be of no less extent than seven and a-half acres, and it was covered with a dense mass of houses inhabited by the humbler and poorer classes. One of the most perplexing questions of the day was how to provide accommodation for the working classes. They were all aware that one of the difficulties with which they had to deal was that which
 293
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked, whether the despatches would be laid upon the table at an early period?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  inquired of the Colonial Secretary, Whether he has received by the Mails, which arrived yesterday, any Despatches from the Governor of New Zealand with respect to the war; and whether it is true that any proposition has been made to the Colonial Parliament with a view of withdrawing Her Majesty's forces from the Colony?
 MR. LAYARD  reminded the hon. and gallant Member that the Government had no power to withdraw from the service of the Emperor of China any person who might be in that service. Those who were in Her Majesty's service, and who had received permission to serve under the Emperor of China, had had that permission withdrawn; but as regarded those who were not in Her Majesty's service, if they remained in the service of the Emperor of China, it would be at their own peril.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  stated, that he apprehended the decision of this question would not in the least degree depend on him, but rather on the Treasury. The matter had been referred to the Admiralty Court, and he could not say when their decision would be come to, or form any idea when the money would be paid.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it would be known to those who had read the voluminous papers which had already been presented to the House upon the subject of New Zealand, that at the time when these papers were sent home, the Governor was engaged in a controversy with his advisers upon the subject principally of the disposal of the Queen's troops, and of the terms to be offered to the Natives for their submission and return to their allegiance. At that time the Governor had, on his own authority, in obedience to instructions from home, but without the concurrence of his Ministers, offered terms on which the Natives should be permitted to return to their allegiance. He (Mr. Cardwell) had that day received despatches by the mail from New Zealand, the purport of which was that the Governor had formed a new Ministry upon principles which, he assured him, were in conformity with the instructions he had received from home; that the new Ministry confidently expected to enjoy the confidence of a large majority of the Assembly, and that they had recognized the act of the Governor in offering terms of submission to the Natives, without insisting upon that which the Governor believed to be impossible—namely, the condition of the universal surrender of arms. He further held in his hand certain Resolutions of the Assembly of New Zealand, dated on the 6th of December last, which were to the effect—
 "While the House expresses its deep gratitude for the generous assistance rendered by the mother country to the colony, and while it does
 290
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was always anxious to have all papers laid on the table as soon as possible, and he would take care to do so on the present occasion.
 MR. CARDWELL : I rise, Sir, to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to annex to the colony of the Cape of Good Hope a small British territory, which, though technically and legally a colony, is practically and in fact a portion of the Cape Colony. The papers which have been laid on the table will show to those who have taken the pains to read them the reasons which induce me to make this proposal on the part of the Government, and the reasons which have rendered it necessary to deal with the question now, and they will relieve me from the necessity of troubling the House with any long statement on the subject. Previously to 1847, the Great Fish River was the north-eastern frontier of the Cape Colony; but when Sir Harry Smith was Governor at the Cape, and there were troubles with the Kaffirs on
 313 314 315 316
 MR. CRAUFURD  thought a Motion for altering the Standing Orders ought not to be dealt with by the House till it had been referred to the Standing Orders Committee, and those hon. Members who had charge of the Private business
 286
 MR. G. W. BENTINCK : The hon. and learned Gentleman said the outlay from the public purse would only be £200,000. There was no instance on record that any public building was ever constructed for the sum estimated. There was no case in which it did not exceed nearly one-half, and for the correctness of that assertion he might refer to the Houses of Parliament. But it was stated the other night by the hon. Member for Evesham (Sir Henry Willoughby), that a certain portion of the funds which had been mentioned as applicable to these buildings was already mortgaged for other purposes. He, therefore, hoped to have some information on that subject. They all heard a great deal about retrenchment and economy, but they saw very little in practice. They were shortly about to discuss the efficiency of our naval armaments, with respect to guns and ships; and, therefore, a more inopportune moment could not be found than the present for asking for the construction of buildings which were not absolutely indispensable, and which would involve large demands on the public purse. He trusted some guarantee would be given, on the part of the Government, that the sum required from the public purse should not be in excess of that which had been stated.
 MR. G. W. BENTINCK  said, he could not but think that they were proceeding somewhat hastily on a subject of this great importance. The Bill had been ushered in by petitions from a number of members of the legal profession, on the score of convenience. There could be no doubt that the utmost convenience should be afforded for carrying on the law business of the country; but before the House assented to the second reading of the Bill it ought to have some clear information upon the financial part of the question. The hon. and learned Gentleman, in introducing the measure, had stated what the estimates were, and the sources from which the funds were to be supplied. He understood the hon. and learned Gentleman to intimate that no de-
 294
 MR. HADFIELD  also bore testimony to the beauty and convenience of the Manchester Assize Courts. Unless care was taken that the inside of the new courts was made as convenient as the outside was beautiful, the great objects of the Bill would be lost. Better air, heat, light, and sound, were absolutely indispensable. It was right that the architect who built the Manchester courts should be free to compete, and, if so, he would have a fair chance of coming in for the prize.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  was glad the hon. Member for Perth had called the attention of the House to that subject, and trusted, that in Committee, clauses would be introduced for the purpose of constructing model lodging houses for the great mass of the people who might be displaced by the new courts. It was very discreditable to the foresight of the House that no provision of that kind had ever been made in Railway Bills. A. very different course was pursued by the Emperor of the French in Paris. Where-ever great clearances were made in that city model lodging houses were provided, as a matter of course, for those persons who had been displaced in carrying out improvements. He should be glad to see a similar plan adopted in England.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that in moving for leave to introduce a Bill relating to the constitution, practice, and procedure of the Court of Chancery in Ireland, he begged leave to refer to the fact that a Bill on the same subject had been brought in a few nights before by the Attorney General. Not satisfied with the management of the business of England, that hon. and learned Gentleman had kindly undertaken to transact the business of Ireland likewise. The Bill brought in the other evening was nearly a transcript of the measure introduced last Session by the then Attorney Genaral for Ireland, but which was not acceptable to the House— and, in fact, utterly failed. Notwithstanding this, the hon. and learned Attorney General had brought in the Bill without altering it materially, and seemed determined to carry it through. Having himself opposed that Bill, he had felt that it was incumbent upon him not to content himself with the easy task of objecting to the proposals of others, but to examine the whole subject, and to prepare a Bill which he believed would be acceptable, and he had adopted whatever he might find to be useful either in the re-
 308 309 310 Law Reform, 311 vivâ voce
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, the Standing Orders Committee had not been consulted on the matter, but he thought the proposal not an unreasonable one, although in practice the cases were generally so well stated to the Committees by counsel that there was rarely any need to refer to the petitions themselves. The suggestion which had just been made, that petitions in the first instance, instead of being engrossed should be printed, was a very good one, and might hereafter be acted upon, though the point, he admitted, had never struck him before. He saw no reason why the petitions should not be printed and lodged in the Private Bills Office in the same way as the Bills were.
 MR. MALINS  said, the right hon. Member who had just sat down had remarked that even if the proposed scheme were adopted there would still be two principal courts of justice which would be at a distance from the rest. In answer to that objection, he must reply that the Court of Privy Council only sat about six weeks in the year, and he saw no reason why it could not be accommodated in the proposed new building. The Privy Council Office had no particular charm, and no one could feel anxious to sit in the cockpit at Whitehall. The Judges who sat there were chiefly the Law Lords, and it would be quite as convenient for them to go to the new courts. The objection on that head, therefore, of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole), fell to the ground. With regard to the House of Lords, he hoped to live to see the day when they would consent to abandon their jurisdiction of appeal, and when instead there would be a great court of final appeal sitting the whole of the year, where and when justice was usually administered, and not at the present inconvenient times and place. But supposing the present system were continued, it was well known that their lordships seldom heard more than one case in a day, and as they were invariably cases of the highest importance they more frequently each required several days. If any hon. Member would go to the Bar of the House of Lords he would find no more than six counsel, and never more than two solicitors, so that the whole number inconvenienced would only be from six to eight of a very limited although eminent class. The right hon. Gentleman's suggestion, on the other hand, of bringing the courts down to Westminster, would oblige every barrister, solicitor, and suitor to be put to the inconvenience of running about London in cabs, wasting time and money in a manner which was discreditable to the country. The right hon. Gentleman totally differed in his opinion of a proper site from what was almost the universal opinion of the profession. He had the pleasure of stating to the House that the Society of Lincoln's Inn, which was supposed to be adverse to the scheme, was now in favour of it. The question was yesterday brought before the Council of the Society of Lin-
 298 299
 MR. TORRENS  said, he had not the least objection to accept the Amendment, and would have proposed it himself, had he the same weight in the House as the hon. and gallant Officer.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that he had already altered the wording of the Resolution from "two days previously" to the "morning of the day" on which the Committee sat.
 MR. TORRENS , in moving a Resolution that the Petitions on every Private Bill shall be printed and copies thereof, and of the Bill itself, delivered to the Members of the Committee, said, that great inconvenience arose from the fact that Committees were furnished with only one copy of a petition, and that written on a large unwieldly piece of parchment, in a text which rendered it very difficult to read it. He need hardly remind the House that, under the present system, a Member of a Private Bill Committee had no opportunity of seeing the Bill he had to consider until going into the Committee-room, when the business is immediately commenced; and it surely will be admitted, that it will be a beneficial change to afford an opportunity, however short, to Members to read the Bill to be considered, and petitions which relate to it, before the actual hearing of parties is begun. When he brought the subject forward a few evenings
 283 s
 MR. WALPOLE : One argument in favour of the measure is undoubtedly the great advantage which will arise from the proper concentration of the courts of law and equity. In addition to this, I can quite believe that, provided proper care be taken to secure other dwellings for such of the working classes as are dislodged, the adoption of the site proposed would confer great benefit on that part of the town. Admitting this to the full, I still feel that there are strong objections to this Bill— objections which at all events ought to be stated. It is possible that these objections may be completely answered, and in that case nobody is more able to answer them than my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General. I know the Commissioners reported that the site now selected was the best for the purpose of these courts. Perhaps I may be in a minority, but I own that I should have doubted whether this was the best site. Your object is the concentration of the law courts. But, according to your present plan, you will not concentrate the courts. The Courts of Appeal are here at Westminster, and will not be removed. The House of Lords and the Privy Council, the two great courts which control all the other courts, are within a stone's throw of this House. It is to them that you must look for the ultimate decision of the law; and the best counsel will always be taken from other tribunals to argue before them. My own opinion, therefore, would have been that if you improve the courts you have here, and make them harmonize with the magnificent building you have here, adding thereto from the Clock Tower another building reaching all along the side of Bridge Street, and continuing this on the other side of Palace Yard if necessary, you would provide amply for the courts of law and equity. I confess I should have thought that that was the most economical plan, and it would have completely concentrated both the courts of first jurisdiction and those of appeal. That is the first point on which my hon. and learned Friend ought to satisfy the House. The second point is, that nothing would be so uneconomical, and, therefore, so unwise, as to part with good courts if you have any at present. Now, according to all the evidence taken before the Commissioners and the Committee of 1861, it appears
 296 297
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the presentation of the Returns had been delayed by pressure upon the Department. The Returns for 1863 were, however, in type, and would be delivered in a few days; and those for 1864 would be presented by Easter, or very soon after.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had no objection to the proposal in that shape.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he entertained no great objection to the proposal in its original shape, but felt indisposed to support the Amendment. It was true that the promoters of a Bill in one sense always entailed expense on those who had to petition against it; but there was such a tiling as vexatious opposition, and in those cases it would be highly unfair to throw on the promoters the costs of both sides. He therefore thought that if the petitions were referred to a Committee the expense should be borne by the respective petitioners. It would be also inexpedient to compel parties to print and deliver petitions two days prior to the meeting of the Committee; because it often happened that within that interval intended oppositions were compromised or withdrawn, and it became necessary to print the petitions.
 COLONEL SYKES  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Order in Council of the 1st March, 1864, has been enforced, and all British subjects withdrawn from the service of the Emperor of China and that of Provincial Mandarins?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, it had recently been his misfortune to be summoned as a witness at one of the courts at Westminster, and he fortunately met with the hon. and learned Member for Tiverton (Mr.Denman), who directed him to the Queen's Bench. On arriving there he, with considerable difficulty,  manibus pedibusque, 295
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that though the Attorney General believed that the effect of the Government scheme would be to enable the poor who now occupied tenements on the proposed site to find better houses elsewhere, the House might judge of its probable result from what had taken place in the east of London, where the introduction of railways had led to the removal of many houses. He was informed by those who were acquainted with the subject, that wretched and crowded as were the dwellings which were swept away for the improvements effected at the east end of London, their occupants had been driven into other dwellings still more wretched and more crowded. Therefore, he thought the House should not adopt this change without providing a remedy for those who might be injuriously affected by it.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, that although recent experience in the conduct of public works in this country had not been of such a character as to induce many hon. Members to take part in that discussion on the subject, he wished to say a few words, partly for the purpose of drawing forth some explanations from the Government, and partly to direct public attention to the question. He hoped they should obtain more explanation than they had already had, with respect to the calculations upon which the estimate of £750,000 for the construction of the courts was arrived at, who the gentlemen were by whom that estimate was framed, and what was the character of the buildings to be constructed for that sum. It was scarcely necessary to remind the House how great was the excess usually found over the first expense when a public building was completely out of hand; and he thought it was much more likely to be so in the present case, when the price of materials had been so greatly enhanced and the wages of workmen had also increased. He trusted the Government
 291 292 "There was not in the United Kingdom any place more worthy of the administration of justice than that in which they were assembled, and that in regard to the convenience of the public, the bar, and the bench nothing seemed to be wanting."
 MR. CAVE  asked the President of the Board of Trade, When the "Abstract of the Returns of Wrecks and Casualties on the Coasts of the United Kingdom" for the year ending 31st December, 1863, which
 288
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sure I am the faithful organ of the feeling of the Members of this House when I take this opportunity of expressing, as I think I may venture to do on their behalf, the deep regret which we all feel for the loss the House, has sustained in the death of Mr. Gregson, the late Member for Lancaster. In his capacity of Member of this House, he performed great services to the public; and he was Chairman, I think for seven years, of that Committee of which the Report has just been brought up and moved to be laid upon the table. His attention to his duties was most unwearying, and those who had occasion to come in contact with him, either personally or by virtue of the duties which he performed, will bear witness to his indefatigable industry, to the firmness and soundness of his judgment, to the conciliatory character of his temper, and to the combination in his person of all those qualities which rendered him a valuable and estimable Member of this House. Sir, I may add that I think the public in general are
 287
 MR. FENWICK  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is intended to print a Report of the experiments recently made by direction of the Board of Trade on the relative merits of Malt and Barley for feeding Cattle; and, if so, when we may expect it to be in the hands of Members?
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If Her Majesty's Government have any intention to bring in a Bill for the better protection of the industrial classes against piracy of their works of art at public exhibitions?
 MR. PEEL  said, he must remind the hon. Member that there were many matters of payment in which the two countries were not assimilated. He had no doubt that Ireland ought to obtain the same relief from local charges as the other portions of the United Kingdom; but, on looking at a particular charge of this nature, they must remember that Ireland possessed advantages in regard to other local charges. For example, the Constabulary, of whom in England the Government defrayed only one-fourth of the charge, whilst in Ireland the whole charge fell on the Consolidated Fund. Besides, there was a special grant of £20,000 for Irish Hospitals and County Infirmaries. He thought it could hardly have been the intention of the Committee that the charges alluded to by his hon. Friend should be defrayed out of a Parliamentary Grant; but, at the same time, he saw no reason why, if one-half the expenses of Medical Officers was paid in this country, the same arrangement should not hold good in Ireland.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Report of the Armstrong and Whitworth Committee had not yet been received; but when the Committee had completed their labours there would be no objection to lay the Report on the table of the House.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE   presented 324 325 d. s. 326 327 "The Committee of Council on Education, in the course of each year, as occasion requires, may cancel or modify articles of the Code, or may establish new articles, but may not take any action thereon until the same shall have been submitted to Parliament and laid on the table of both Houses for at least one calendar month. In January of each year, the Code shall be printed in such a form as to show separately all articles cancelled or modified, and all new articles since the last edition, and shall be laid on the table of both Houses within one calendar month from the meeting of Parliament."
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : I consulted the Speaker as to the course which ought to be taken, and he informed me that it would be altogether irregular for me to give notice of a statement on laying these papers upon the table. I therefore adopted the only course which lay in my power, that of communicating my intention to the right hon. Gentleman and others taking an interest in the subject of education.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : These regulations form no part of the Code; they are laid on the table every year with the Report, and I am not aware of any intention to depart from the practice hitherto established. I have been extremely cautious that everything hitherto called regulations, but which ought to form part of the Code, should be embodied in the Code, and the noble Lord will find that many of the matters which formed subjects of discussion during the last Session are now embodied in the Code.
 MAJOR KNOX  desired to know who was the Attorney General for Ireland whose statement was being quoted?
 MAJOR KNOX  reminded the noble Lord at the head of the Government that on the last day of last Session he called his attention to the fact that the Dublin procession was about to take place. The noble Lord informed him that he knew nothing about it, but the Irish Government would, no doubt, look after it. It now appeared from the statement of the Chief Secretary that the Government were all away, and that the whole matter was left in the hands of a gallant General, than whom certainly no man more gallant could have been selected to deal with it. Under these circumstances, he suggested that the Government should take into consideration the propriety of terminating the farce as now enacted in Dublin Castle. In his (Major Knox's) opinion, that, in lieu of a Lord Lieutenant, it would be advisable to appoint a Secretary of State, who, from his high position and character, would have the confidence of all classes; that he would
 409
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland appeared to be ignorant of the meaning attached to different colours in Ireland, for he confounded the crimson flag displayed on the tower of Derry Cathedral with the orange and blue flags. His right rev. Friend the Bishop of Derry, falling into a similar error when he first went to that city, ordered the removal of the flag, but upon communication with the Castle he was told to let it alone, because its display was not in violation of the Party Emblems Act. He (Major Knox) believed that the hoisting of the crimson flag, in commemoration of the glorious achievements of former days, of a nature very similar to those commemorated under the purple and orange did not come under the Party Emblems Act, and therefore the right hon. Baronet, having no power to prosecute, could not claim for his Government an impartial administration of justice on that score. In former times so little was the display of the crimson flag regarded as an offence to the Roman Catholics that a Roman Catholic prelate used to walk with the 'prentice boys of Derry at their annual commemoration, and did not refuse to be present at the drinking of a chartered toast which had since been discontinued out of regard to the feelings of the Roman Catholics.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would only make one observation on the letter, namely this—that it was quite possible that Her Majesty's Government might believe in the genuineness of the intercepted letter, but at the same time might not be convinced that all the statements it contained were true.
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not deem it necessary to press for the papers for which he had moved, after the statement on the subject to which they related which had been made the other evening by the noble Lord at the head of the Government.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, in reply, that the proceedings of the Commissioners to which the Question of his hon. Friend referred were taken under an Act of Parliament passed in the year 1860, called "The Union of Benefices Act," which provided that in certain cases parishes in the City of London might be united, and the sites of churches which had become useless might be sold. The conditions upon which the success of any such union rested was the sale of the site of a useless
 322
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he had never before risen to address the House under such feelings of depression and alarm as he then did in following that most extraordinary oration which they had just heard. He ventured to say that no person occupying the important position of the right hon. Baronet, and having the grave responsibility of answering his hon. and learned Friend on this question, could be justified in adopting the tone he had done. The right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) began in a tone of levity quite un-suited to so grave a subject, and because he had not listened to the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), and had, consequently, confused two stories together, made jokes about the difficulty of telling what the term "a boy" meant in Ireland. He stood there as the representative of the Government, to answer a very grave charge—no less than that of maladministration of justice and guilty connivance with a most wanton violation of the statute which had already deluged one city with blood, and had given rise to feelings of distrust as to the administration of the law and alarm as to the future throughout a great portion of Ireland; and it was not fitting that he should reply to so grave a charge by such a speech as he had delivered. He called upon the right hon. Gentleman, instead of reading beautiful selections of fine sentiments, to act upon the noble principles which were enunciated by the authors. Had he acted upon those principles? Had he not shown that he could not meet fairly and straightforwardly the case which was brought forward by the hon. and learned Gentleman as to the procession in Dublin? Having completely shirked the main gist of that part of the question, he wound up with a sort of lecture to the North of Ireland, telling them to avoid that misconduct which, he said, was at the root of all the discord of Ireland. He asked the right hon. Gentleman next time he addressed the House to go a little more into detail and tell them whether he thought that these unfortunate occurrences originated in the North, and that that portion of the country was more disturbed
 367 368 Freeman's Journal, 369 Freeman, "That the dearest wish of that distinguished man's heart—the legislative independence of his country—yet remained to be inscribed on his shield." dejeuner, 370 "There was a higher motive and a nobler spirit animating that meeting; it might have been read in the crowded gathering, in the laurels and rosettes, all green. They wanted to be united men, who, if boldly led, would go to some decided end." "He came from the old city of Patrick Sarsfield, and was only anxious for the hour when they could strike a blow for Ireland." "I am firmly resolved to use every influence that I possess as a bishop to further the principles of O'Connell, and to teach my flock that they ought not to be slaves, hanging on the tail of England, or on the Legislature of the Saxon, but to take the position of freemen." 371
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, the observations of the right hon. Baronet on that point might have been omitted, as they had only the tendency to mislead those who did not hear the whole of his speech. Lord Carlisle, dealing in the first instance with the Act, stated in his instructions that the parading against which it was directed need not be in military array. "Any meeting," he added, "and placing of persons so met in ranks or in any order of march, or procession, would he within the Act."
 "They (or some of the party) must either have arms or offensive weapons, or wear party colours or emblems, or have with them party flags or banners, &c.; or they must be accompanied by music 'of a like nature and tendency,'—that is, playing party tunes or singing party songs. An assembly of persons meeting and parading, or joining in procession under any one of the foregoing circumstances, falls within the meaning of the Act." 372 "A more prompt course should be taken in the case of processions formed of greater numbers or having any arms. The parties assembled are guilty of a misdemeanor under the first section of the Act; the assembly is unlawful, and every person engaged in it is liable to prosecution by indictment. It is, therefore, competent to any magistrate at once to issue his warrant on the spot to apprehend them, or any of them, with a view to their being made amenable to justice. Those with arms, or carrying banners or other emblems, or drums, should in such cases be at once arrested." "Cautionary Notice.—By the 23  & Vict. 373 "Pakenham Hall, August 22, 1864. "My Lord,—Having observed that a party procession, to all appearance illegal, has been permitted to take place in Dublin, and having observed that similar processions have been prohibited elsewhere, I have the honour to request that you will obtain from the Irish Government instructions for the guidance of magistrates, whether the law for the prevention of party emblems and processions is still in operation, or whether
 374 "LONOFORD. "To the Lord Castlemaine, Vice Lieutenant, county of Westmeath." "Dublin Castle, Sept. 9. "My Lord,—I am directed by the Lords Justices to acknowledge the receipt of your Lordship's letter of the 27th ult., enclosing one addressed to your Lordship by the Earl of Longford, and to state that the magistrates of Ireland, who in every district receive from the Government the statutes of the realm, cannot need to be informed that the Acts for the prevention of party processions and emblems are still in operation and apply equally to every section of the community. I am further to inform your Lordship that definite instructions with reference to those Acts and the mode of their administration have already been given to the magistracy in those counties in which party processions and the exhibition of party emblems have prevailed, by a circular dated the 22nd day of June, 1861." "do not consider that any new instructions for that purpose are required. Their Excellencies are not aware that any party procession or exhibition of party emblems has taken place in the county of Westmeath, and I am to add that if the law has been violated by the procession in Dublin, to which the Earl of Longford has thought fit to refer, the Irish Government would have been prepared to enforce it, and endeavour to visit its violation with the proper legal penalties; but no information whatever was at any time laid before the Executive in Dublin, which would have warranted it in dealing with that procession as a violation of the Acts adverted to." 375 "Their Excellencies feel bound to state that there do not appear to them to be any grounds for the assertion put forward by the Earl of Longford that the procession in Dublin was a party procession. Their Excellencies are wholly unaware of anything which justifies in the least degree the assumption, both in your Lordship's letter, and in that of the Earl of Longford, that the Irish Government is not prepared to support the magistracy in impartially and fearlessly carrying out the Acts of Parliament, and they cannot but regret that such an assumption should have been made by persons of your Lordship's eminent position."
 LORD ROBERT CECIL,  in whose name a Notice stood on the Paper to the effect that Mr. Speaker be requested to give directions that a Copy of all Notices of Motion and Orders of the Day standing on the Order Book of the House be circulated among Members every Saturday morning, said, it would perhaps be for the convenience of the House if he were to deal with the matter in the shape of a question. He would, therefore, beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair, Whether it will be possible to adopt in the House of Commons the practice which prevails in another place, of circulating
 323
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I shall not utter a word of comment on what the right hon. Gentleman has stated, but there is one question which I wish to address to him in elucidation of the statement he has just made. I wish to know whether the Minutes to be laid every year on the table of the House by the Committee of Council are to be understood as including such regulations as those supplementary rules introduced eighteen months ago—whether,
 328
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the
 321
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he rose to ask the hon. Member for Belfast, Whether he will proceed with his Motion relative to the late disturbances in Belfast before the Report of the Commission appointed to inquire into the subject, which the Chief Secretary for Ireland has stated will be laid upon the table of the House in a very few days, is in the hands of Members?
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I should very much regret if the Question of my hon. Friend inferred any reflection upon Lord Lyons for not being at his post; but I rejoice at this opportunity of bearing my testimony to the singular zeal, tact, discretion, and ability with which Lord Lyons has carried on the business of this country at Washington during a most critical and important period. Of the many thousand cases with which Lord Lyons has had to deal in no one single instance has he not received the entire approval of Her Majesty's Government; and it may, perhaps, interest the House to hear the amount of business that has been transacted during the last three or four years by the Washington Embassy. The correspondence of one year fills sixty large folio volumes. In
 319
 MR. LAYARD  said, in answer to the hon. Gentleman, he had only to repeat what was stated by the noble Lord the other night, that there were no papers on the subject of the Reciprocity Treaty. As the hon. Gentleman was aware, no notice with respect to the treaty had been given to Her Majesty's Government. Resolutions on the subject had been submitted to Congress, but there had been no intimation given to Her Majesty's Government—consequently there were really no papers to lay on the table.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that if any proof were needed that the O'Connell procession in Dublin was of a party character, it would be found in the speech of the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire). It was, in truth, a Roman Catholic procession to mark the gratitude of the Roman Catholics to O'Connell. He could remember Mr. O'Connell in that House, and no one who shared with him that recollection, and remembered the gigantic meetings convened at Tara and elsewhere for the repeal of the Union, could doubt that Mr. O'Connell was a party leader. What could the people of Belfast think but that this was a party procession? And the folly of which they had been guilty showed their sense of the injustice of which they were the victims. A few foolish lads burnt an effigy on a certain bridge in Belfast. The people felt acutely that all processions there, in memory of events to which they owed their freedom, should be strictly forbidden by the operation of the law, which in Dublin was defied by the mere force of numbers. The result of that debate showed conclusively that the Processions Act should be enforced everywhere or that it should be repealed. The operation of the law was to bring any Government into disgrace which had the meanness to allow processions of 80,000 in the South, and yet put it in force against processions of 200 or 300 in the North of Ireland. The fact was the idea of Protestant ascendancy had passed away. The Protestants had been made to feel that they were a minority, and they appealed to the House for justice, though what had passed boded that they would have very scant justice meted out to them. Whether this Motion were well timed or not, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) acted under the sense that some of the inhabitants of the town he represented were prejudged, and he ought therefore, at least, to be excused for bringing it forward, even if he were, as the hon. Member (Mr. Maguire) had said,
 408
 MR. NEWDEGATE : He was glad to find that the hon. Member had thought fit so to explain his words; but he could not help thinking that they naturally meant that the hon. and learned Member for Belfast was seeking to mitigate the severity of the blow which seemed to have been prepared by the issuing of that Commission. He (Mr. Newdegate) should add that he trusted that this Report would not be delayed, because if ever there was a document which ought to have been presented to the House at its meeting it was one which, being known to exist, and being based upon a semi-public inquiry, was calculated to affect the verdict which would be pronounced upon men who might very soon stand upon their trial for their lives. He begged to observe that when hon. Members talked about the Protestant ascendancy in Ireland, it ought to be remembered that they spoke of that which had long passed away. The Protestants in Ireland were a minority, and he trusted that when they looked to their fellow Protestants in England they would not find that their position as a minority was held to disentitle them from assistance.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he saw any objection to allow the postage stamp and rate of three pence, which was now in use for certain foreign and colonial postage, to be made applicable to the internal postage of the country? The hon. Gentleman said that he was in hopes that this question had already been settled as he desired; because, in the course of experiments which he had recently made, he had sent through the post two letters, weighing an ounce and a quarter each
 410
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, no instrnctions had been sent to the Governor of the Gold Coast to march troops against the Ashantee territory, and any proceeding on his part of that kind would be at variance with his instructions from home. He had, however, heard that the Governor was going into the interior of the country on a friendly expedition, and he (Mr. Cardwell) had it in a Despatch from the Governor that he did not contemplate any warlike measure, but he believed the Governor had taken troops with him as a guard.
 MR. PEACOCKE  begged to remind the hon. Gentleman that no answer had been given as to the genuineness of the letter to which allusion had been made. If the letter were genuine, it would show that, while British vessels could not enter a blockaded harbour of the Confederate States, President Lincoln was endeavouring to enable Federal vessels to enter them to procure cotton for the Federal States. If the Government declined to give any information on the subject, he trusted the hon. Member for Stockport would not fail to press it again on their attention on a future occasion in a more formal manner.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Would you oblige me with them? I wish to quote them correctly. I certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman then to give us a pledge
 383 v. 384 ex parte 385 "The existing local arrangements for the preservation of the peace of that borough, the management and jurisdiction exercised within it, and the amount, and constitution, and efficiency of the police force usually available there; the proceedings taken by the magistrates and other
 386 387 Nisi Prius 388 389 "these matters lead us to believe that in the constitution the police force there are serious errors calling for immediate remedy, and to recommend that a total change should be effected in the mode of appointment and the management of the local police of Belfast." Hansard, 390 391 Will. 392 393 394 395 The Pickwick Papers 396 Saunders', posse comitatus 397 398 399 "You are no longer a wretched colony, returning thanks to her Governor for his rapine, and to her King for his oppression. Spirit of Swift! Spirit of Molyneux! Your genius has prevailed? Ireland is now a nation!" 400
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I wish to make a few observations upon a point which has not been, I think, sufficiently considered by those who have taken part in this debate. I agree with the last speaker that some profit may be derived from the debate if we clearly understand the principles that are involved in the discussion. The clear and temperate statement of my hon. and learned Friend (Sir Hugh Cairns) has put the House in possession of the question, which is, in my opinion, one of the utmost importance to the future government of a large kingdom. It is a question which touches the privileges, or what are supposed to be the privileges, of this House. The facts that led to this question are admitted. A warrant had been issued by a gentleman who was described by the right hon. Baronet as the sole Lord Justice. Under what circumstances was that warrant issued? A sad, melancholy, and stupid riot broke out in Belfast on the 8th of August—the House will notice the date. On that day where was the Government of Ireland? I may be told that Lord Carlisle, whom we all respected for his virtues, his gracious conduct, and his admirable courtesies in private life, was at that time disabled. We understood he had resigned; at all events, there was no Lord Lieutenant. It is admitted by the right hon. Baronet, that the Lord Chancellor was absent, so that the sole Governor of Ireland was Sir George Brown. There is, not, I believe, a more gallant veteran in the British service. It is said he served under Wellington. He served in the Crimea; he was sent to Ireland to enjoy his  otium cum dignitate. 379 "The Court: Is there anything else you have to say?—Witness: I have an instance of a j£10 note slipping into the mayor's pocket from off the Board-room table of the House of Industry, and it never slipped out since." 380 ex parte, ex parte 381 382 "Be it enacted that the Lord Lieutenant shall have power to direct the Inspector General to appoint two persons to examine into the conduct or misconduct of all persons connected with that vast force, and to administer an oath."
 MR. WHITESIDE : I rise to order. I always understood that the opinions of the Law Officers of the Crown given to the Crown were private communications. I have known them to be asked for on many occasions, and always refused by the Government. I have known Gentlemen in this House ask for police reports and the opinions of counsel; and I ask you, Sir, whether this opinion ought to be read to the House?
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government propose to adopt the Resolution of the Select Committee of 1858, and place the Medical Officers of Irish Unions on the same footing as similar Officers in England and Scotland, one-half of whose salaries are paid from the Public Revenue?
 MR. SPEAKER : I have made inquiries in reference to the subject, which the noble Lord has just mentioned; I find that there will be no difficulty on the part of the printers, and that the expense will be trifling. In the belief that it will be the wish of the House to have the information in the most complete shape, I shall have much pleasure in directing that the Notices and Orders be henceforth supplied as desired.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Orders of the House are not in any way involved in this proceeding.
 MR. SPEAKER : Whether the document is or is not such as the hon. and learned Member describes, the question does not in the least degree involve a point of Order. If a document is read in this House it may be called for, and made a public document, but its production in this debate is not against the Rules of the House.
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to address a question to the Attorney General. He saw over the Speaker's chair and in other parts of the decorations of the House green shields and a harp without a crown. They had been told to-night that was arrant treason, and he should like to know from the Attorney General, whether those who built that House, or who designed the decorations, were guilty of treason?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that had it not been that he took part in the procession of the 8th of August he should not have risen upon this occasion, but it was only right that he should give his testimony as to the character of that demonstration. He at that time occupied an official position in the city of Cork, and had been deputed by the corporation to attend to represent them upon an occasion when it was intended to pay proper respect to the memory of O'Connell. At the meeting of the corporation, when he was so deputed, there were present several Conservative Members, who united with their Radical and Catholic brethren in a desire to pay respect to the memory of a great Irishman. lie confessed that having been kept seated in a carriage for five hours the proceedings of the day were rather a bore to him; but he had opportunity of watching the conduct of the people, and he never remembered to have seen before such evidence of good feeling on the part of a vast population. The people turned out as for a national holyday, with the sole object of paying respect to one whom all Irishmen ought to respect. O'Connell had been dead nearly eighteen years, and surely now the animosities of former times might be allowed to pass away. All Irishmen, however differing from O'Connell in past times, might now properly respect the greatness of his genius and the splendid achievement of which he was the author. He had done
 405 406 407
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had not meant to refer to those who were awaiting their trial. He had alluded to the party which the hon. and learned Gentleman represented in that House.
 MR. M'MAHON  regretted that the time of the House had been wasted on a profitless and useless discussion. Of all people in the world, the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), and those who sat on the same bench with him, ought to have been the last to revive a topic of this kind. They ought to be content with the predominance they had so long enjoyed in Ireland—they might enjoy it, and sing songs of triumph about it in
 376 377 378
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  hoped that the Chief Secretary would lay the Report of this Commission upon the table on an early day, in order that the House might have an opportunity of expressing its opinion upon all that had occurred at Belfast.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he rose to ask the Member for Kilmarnock, as a Church Estates' Commissioner, Why the removal of the Church of St. Benet, Gracechurch Street, and the union of the Benefice with that of Allhallows, Lombard Street, referred to in the Order of Council, dated the 1st November last, and published in the  London Gazette
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General was preparing a Bill for the better protection of the industrial classes against piracy of their works of art at public exhibitions,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the accounts were not yet presented with which the Committee had to deal. At the same time, no inconvenience could arise from its appointment, and he would that evening give notice of its nomination,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that without entering into any details, he might inform the hon. Gentleman that the Post Office and the Treasury had under their consideration the expediency of making some modification in the present arrangement of the scale of postage, which would, he thought, confer great accommodation on the public, and would include the change which the hon. Gentleman desired to see effected.
 MR. WATKIN,  in rising to move an Address for Copies of all Papers in the possession of the Government respecting the Reciprocity Treaty with America and the Bonding Acts, of dates subsequent to December, 1861, said, that under the latter articles chargeable with duty could be sent through United States territory and Canada in bond, and as Canada was for the present, and would be until the completion of railway communication to Halifax on the Atlantic, cut off from access to the ocean for five winter months of the year, the Bonding Acts enabled her commerce with the outside world to pass unimpeded. The North Western States received in return corresponding facilities of access through Canada. The Reciprocity Treaty included three essential provisions—the rights of fishery on a shore line of 1,500 miles, the free navigation of the St. Lawrence, and the free interchange of productions between the British provinces and the United States. The beneficent theory of the treaty was to make two countries, politically distinct, commercially one, and to induce the two peoples, otherwise opposed, to live in co-operation and in peace. The provision as to the fisheries had settled for the time difficult questions leading in past days, and over and over again to dispute, collision, and sometimes the imminence of war. The free navigation of the St. Lawrence and of Lake Michigan had removed jealousies, and fostered the idea of common interests in the great waterways to the ocean, while the results of reciprocal trade had been so happy that a total annual interchange of commodities of a value of nearly £10,000,000 a year in amount between the British provinces and the United States
 411 412 413
 MR. WATKIN  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Mr. Burnley Hume is still in charge of the Embassy at Washington; and, if so, when Her Majesty's Ambassador, Lord Lyons, may be expected to resume his duties?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The right hon. and learned Gentleman in his speech tonight has wandered from the distinct issue raised by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), and I hope we shall not be led away by his fervid eloquence from the real subject of debate. I cannot help thinking that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman is an illustration of the inconvenienee which must attend an inquiry into the occurrences at Belfast before the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into them has been laid upon the table of the House. The right hon. and learned Gentleman has not only impugned the appointment of that Commission, but has gone into the details of what he alleges occurred before it, of which the House can have no knowledge, and his object seems to have been to lead the House to believe that the inquiry was partial and unfair, tending to interfere with the due administration of the criminal law in the case of those persons who have been committed for trial. I cannot help thinking that the right hon. Gentleman would have acted more impartially if he had abstained from the course which he has adopted to-night; and would have exhibited a conduct more worthy of the high position he occupies in the Bar of Ireland, and in this House, if he had abstained from pledging his legal reputation to the assertion that a man who is now under charge of the highest crime known to the law will be acquitted, although the Court of Queen's Bench in Ireland has refused an application made in his behalf to he bailed. The right hon. and learned Gentleman has also, in a manner unworthy his position, indulged in repeated sneers—for I can call them by no other name—against a gallant and distinguished officer Sir George Brown. The right hon. Gentleman is perfectly well aware that the necessary powers are invested in the Lords Justices in the absence of the Lord Lieutenant, and that one of those Lords Justices is invariably the Commander-in-Chief. The right hon. Gentleman has insinuated that the issuing of the Commission was the act of a military chief
 401 402 403 404
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I used no such words—I have got the words here [See 3  Hansard,
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I stated to the right hon. Baronet myself what I was going to say about Mr. Barry.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I must rise again to a point of Order. I understood, and I believe the House understood, that the right hon. Baronet was going to read the opinion given by the Law Officer of the Crown for the guidance of the Government. It now appears, however, to be merely a statement made for the purposes of this debate. May I ask, Sir, whether the right hon. Gentleman is in order?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I hope the right hon. Gentleman will allow me to interpose on a point of order. I will not offer any objection, as the Attorney General is not here, to the reading of the opinion he has given, but I should think the House would like to hear also the statement of facts on which that opinion was based.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS,  who had given notice—
 "To ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland a Question relative to the Commission of Inquiry into the recent disturbances at Belfast; and to call the attention of the House to the circumstances connected with that Commission, and to the administration of the Law and Processions in Ireland; and to move for Papers," 329 "All assemblies of persons in Ireland who shall meet and parade together or join in procession, and who shall wear or have among them or any of them any fire-arms or other offensive weapons, or any banner, emblem, flag, or symbol, the display whereof may be calculated or tend to provoke animosity between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects, or shall be accompanied by any person or persons playing music or singing any song which may be calculated or tend to provoke animosity
 330 Vict.c. "I trust your Lordships will give your assent to a Bill which is now before the other House for putting an end to all processions—a Bill, I beg to say, which is directed against no particular party, and will be a triumph to none."—[3  Hansard, 331 332 "The justices should understand that it is their bounden duty, within their respective jurisdictions, to act upon the powers vested in them by the law for the suppression of these illegal proceedings (to wit, the display of party emblems, or the marching in procession with music and colours); and that they will be held individually and collectively responsible for any violation of this law which may occur in their district, of which it shall be found that they have had notice, and where it shall appear that they have not made use of their authority and the means at their disposal to suppress such proceedings, and bring those concerned to justice." 333 "Any person who shall publicly exhibit or display…any banner, flag, party emblem, or symbol, or who shall publicly meet and parade with other persons, or play any music in any public street, if such acts are done wilfully and knowingly in such a manner as may be calculated or tend to provoke animosity between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects, and lead to a breach of the public peace, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Strict orders have been given to the constabulary to take down the names and residences of all offenders, in order that they may be proceeded against." "The procession occupied three-and-a-half hours in passing any given point, and was estimated to amount to from 60,000 to 80,000 men. Every man wore some ribands of white and green, either a rosette, a band on his hat, or a scarf, sometimes all three. The scarfs were of green silk, with harps on them, without a crown. The rosettes had similar harps in the centre. There were wands carried adorned with green ribands. There were 134 large banners, more or less green, and many thousand banneretes all green. The green banners, banneretes, scarfs, and rosettes, were borne not only by the various trades, but also by schools and religious orders. The barricade in Sackville Street was kept by the coal porters, carrying sticks adorned with green ribands; and at each corner of the barricade stood a man with a pike, from which depended a bannerete of green with a crownless harp. Some of the banners had the emblem of a 'sunburst.' There were from twenty to thirty bands of music; and tunes, well known as party tunes, such as 'Garryowen' and the 'White Cockade,' were played." 334 "Any flag or symbol the display whereof may be calculated or may tend to provoke animosity between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects." 335 "Pray your honourable House to take such steps as in your wisdom shall seem best to cause the law against party processions and emblems to be impartially enforced against persons of whatever creed or politics, and to remove from the minds of the inhabitants of Ulster the impression that the laws in question, though general in their wording, were only intended to be put in operation against a particular class of Her Majesty's subjects." 336 337 338 339 340 "We do hereby authorize and direct you, Charles Robert Barry and Richard Dowse, Esqrs., two of Her Majesty's counsel-at-law, to hold a court of inquiry at Belfast, aforesaid, on Saturday, the 12th day of November instant, and following days, and to inquire into the existing local arrangements for the preservation of the peace of that borough, the management and jurisdiction exercised within it, and the amount, and constitution, and efficiency of the police force usually available there; the proceedings taken by the magistrates and other local authorities towards the prevention or suppression of the said riots and disturbances; and whether these authorities and the existing police force are adequate to the future maintenance of order and tranquillity within the borough; and whether any and what changes ought to be made in the local magisterial and police jurisdiction, arrangements, and establish-
 341 "To inquire into the local arrangements for the preservation of the peace and the suppression of riot and disorder in Belfast, the force usually available there for such purposes, and the adequacy of such provisions for the maintenance of peace, order, and tranquillity. And, generally, to make such inquiry in the premisses as to you shall seem proper and expedient." "These matters lead us to believe that in the constitution of the present police force there are serious errors, calling for immediate remedy—and to recommend that a total change should be effected in the mode of appointment and the management of the local police of Belfast. We think the late riots have made this step one that recommends itself to every calm thinking and reasonable man in Belfast, and we hardly think it could find opponents even among the warmest partisans." 342 343 "To Messrs. Barry, Q.C., and Dowse, Q.C., Commissioners, &c.—I, the undersigned, James M'Lean, solicitor for various parties against whom informations have been taken for alleged participation in the late riots in this town, and who are now either out upon bail or in custody (as the case may be), protest against your proceeding upon the inquiry now opened, and assign the following reasons:—1. That the Commissioners have no power to compel the attendance of witnesses, and consequently that witnesses who come forward will do so voluntarily, and in many cases must, therefore, be tainted with suspicion. 2. That the Commissioners have not the power to administer an oath, and that false witnesses cannot, therefore, be prosecuted for perjury. 3 That statements may be made by such witnesses affecting the cases of the persons on whose behalf I protest; and which statements, as they could not be anticipated, cannot be prevented from being made by the Commissioners." 344 ex parte; 345 "Commissions were directed to divers Commissioners in various counties to inquire of depopulation of houses, converting of arable land into pasture, &c. But the Commissioners should not have any power to hear and determine the said offences, but only to inquire of them. And it was resolved by all the Judges that these Commissions were against law for these reasons [among others]:—for this, that it was only to inquire, which is against law; for by this a man may be unjustly accused by perjury, and he shall not have any remedy. Also, the party may be defamed and shall not have any traverse to it." 346 "There is no people under the sun that doth better like indifferent justice, and will rest better satisfied with the execution of the law, though it be against themselves, so that they have the protection and benefit of the law when they deserve it." 347
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : No, that was at another place. I mentioned six men at Gilford, who were described in the petition as married and having families.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, in answer to the Question of the hon. Member for Longford County, he had to say that the Notice that stood in the paper in his name was a Notice to call attention to the character of the Commission, and the expediency of issuing it, and did not refer to the nature of the Commission or the evidence to be taken before it. He did not therefore, think anything would be gained by a postponement of his Motion.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, To lay the Report of the Armstrong and Whit-worth Committee upon the table of the House?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies a Question of which he had given him private notice. The right hon. Gentleman had most probably seen the statements in the papers to the effect that the Commandant of Cape Coast Castle was marching with troops towards the Kingdom of Ashantee. He wished to know, Whether that officer has been directed to take the field against the Ashantees; and, if so, whether any precautions have been taken to prevent a mortality amongst our soldiers similar to that which followed the last expedition?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I think the right hon. Gentleman has established a good precedent, and has endeavoured to meet the wish expressed by the House last Session by a free explanation of the new Minutes adopted by the Committee of Council at the time of their being laid on the table of the House. On the other hand, I think the course adopted by the right hon. Gentleman is attended with some degree of inconvenience, and is somewhat unusual in this respect, that the right hon. Gentleman has availed himself of an opportunity—usually one only of form—to enter upon a statement of which he has not given any notice. I am sure the right hon. Gentleman did not intend to do anything irregular, but I think it would have been better had he given some intimation of his intention. Under the circumstances, I think I shall best consult the convenience of tie House by deferring any observations I may have to offer to a future opportunity.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Ah, but people marry so young in Ireland that they might be boys all the same. In fact, it is impossible to know in Ireland exactly what a boy is. I was talking to a gentleman in Dublin who said, pointing to some one who passed, "What a fine boy that is." "Why," I exclaimed, "he is an old man." "Oh!" said my friend, "he is a boy for all that, and a broth of a boy." To return, however, to the processions in 1861, 1862, and 1864. The hon. and learned Gentleman had particularly referred to the procession at the M'Manus funeral in Dublin in 1861, and to the procession to the O'Connell monument in 1864. He had very truly said, there was no impropriety in raising a monument to one of the greatest and most patriotic Irishmen who ever lived; but he wants the House to believe that the Government did not act in accordance with the law on that occasion. I have taken much pains to inquire into the subject, and hold in my hand the opinion of the present Attorney General for Ireland, which, as he has not a seat in the House, the House will, perhaps, permit me to read. The Attorney General says—
 354 "With respect to the procession which took place in Dublin upon the occasion of laying—"
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, being single-handed in representing the Government of Ireland in this House, I feel that I rise under considerable disadvantage to answer so able a speaker as the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, and for that reason I ask the indulgence of the House while I endeavour, to the best of my power, to follow the observations which he has addressed to us. I do not wish to be thought at all to dispute the right of the hon. and learned Member to consult what he no doubt conceives to be the interest of his constituents in bringing this subject before the House on the present occasion. Neither am I unwilling to acknowledge the temperate manner, upon the whole, in which he has submitted his remarks to us. In the course of those remarks he referred to the unhappy disturbances at Belfast. I can, on behalf of the Government, cordially concur with the hon. and learned Gentleman in the expression of deep and heartfelt regret at the painful circumstances and the unhappy differences which occurred in that town last August. But I would put it to the House whether, laying aside considerations of local interest, it would not have been better, upon public grounds, if this Motion had been postponed; whether the Motion is not to some extent premature and inopportune. I ask whether in the interests of all parties concerned, in the interests of justice, on which the hon. and learned Member laid such stress, in the interests of that public order to which sectarian animosities are so inimical, it would not have been infinitely preferable to defer the bringing forward of this Motion, at least until the Report of the Commissioners, together with the evidence taken before them, had been laid on the table of the House. Now, I told the hon. and learned Gentleman the other day that that Report would be forthcoming in a very short time. Apparently he has not thought fit to wait till that time arrives, but in spite of the suggestion made to him by an hon. Gentleman below the gangway, he has persisted in entering upon this question now. I do not find any fault with him on that ground. I will not shrink from meeting the hon. and learned Gentleman fairly on the issues which he has placed before the House. One of these issues is as to the administration of the law against processions in
 348 "He acknowledged that the title of the Bill was calculated to awaken constitutional jealousy; at the same time, in the provisions of the Bill itself there was nothing to alarm the warmest
 349 Hansard, "They were for many years subject to no kind of jealousy with the Catholics; on the contrary, in the year 1782, the first volunteer corps which fired a salute before the statue of King William III. in Dublin was the Irish Catholic Brigade, commanded by the Marquess Wellesley. So far from any jealousy being entertained with reference to the events commemorated on that occasion, there was not a Catholic who did not rejoice to reflect that King William succeeded and that King James was defeated. There was not a Catholic who did not hold the character of the former in the greatest respect, and regarded the latter with the greatest and most sovereign contempt; therefore, there was no rational ground for these processions being considered as an insult to the Catholics."—[3  Hansard 350 "To celebrate the battle of the Boyne and the birthday of King William would have little effect in this country; but the battle of the Boyne was commemorated in Ireland with the view of celebrating the defeat of the Roman Catholics. There could be no other object in view, and he therefore most anxiously wished that this source of irritation should be put an end to."—[3  Hansard, "Judging from the experience of past years, he had reason to hope that the Protestants of the north of Ireland would, on the approaching anniversaries, abstain from processions as they had so wisely done for several years past…He was happy to say that Government, under all the circumstances, felt justified in limiting the duration of both these Bills (the Secret Societies Act, and the Orange Procession Act) to the 31st of August, 1845."—[3  Hansard, 351 Nation "I shall now call your attention to two or three circumstances in relation to these meetings. The first peculiarity connected with them is the attendance of the temperance bands. The Attorney General (now the Master of the Rolls), T. C. Smith, must have a very inharmonious turn of mind if he objects to the Irish people seeking so innocent an amusement. I say that it is com-
 352 353
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The facts were contained in the reports of the police, which at the time of the occurrences were coming in every half hour and hour, and which were naturally submitted to the Law Officers of the Crown for their advice as to the course the Government should pursue. The Attorney General's opinion refers to what took place in 1861, 1862, and 1864.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I apprehend that our object is the elucidation of the truth. The hon. and learned Gentleman has charged the Government with not acting in a legal and straightforward manner. I wrote to the Attorney General for Ire-
 355 "With respect to the procession which took place in Dublin on the occasion of laying the first stone of the O'Connell monument, I have to observe that I carefully read all the police reports which were submitted to the Government in reference to that procession, both before it took place, during its progress, and upon its termination, and I was then, and am now, clearly of opinion that there was no ground whatever for treating it as a party procession within either the Party Procession or Party Emblems Act, or as an assembly illegal at common law. There was no display of party banners or emblems." "There were no party tunes, no firearms, the meeting was peaceful and orderly, and no person ever swore, or even tendered an information, that 'it was calculated to create animosity between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects, or to lead to a breach of the peace,' in the language of the Act. The executive Government, therefore, did not, and could not, legally interfere to stop the procession; they took all proper measures to prevent the consequences which are always likely to arise from the gathering of a great crowd. The result was that there was no breach of the peace, and no injury was done to person or property. The occasion was a lawful one, and unless every great crowd which assembles to welcome a public character, or to celebrate his memory, is to be pronounced unlawful this crowd could not be."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : It is quite evident that the hon. and learned Gentleman is actuated by some motive in the course he has adopted of endeavouring to prevent the reading of the document. I am only
 356 "I have further to observe that the Government, by my advice, adopted precisely the same course with respect to this procession as they have always done with respect to Orange processions in the north."[Namely, complete impartiality.]"The Government has never taken upon itself— "The Government has never taken upon itself to prohibit a procession except upon sworn information of the strongest character. The uniform course is to direct the constabulary to attend in sufficient numbers to prevent a breach of the peace, to take down the names of the parties attending, and to summon them in case there should be any violation of the law. Such were the instructions given in the case of the O'Connell procession; but as the police reported that there had been no violation of the law, and as no private individual ventured to swear that he believed there was, it is plain that the Government could have taken no further action; could not have instituted any prosecution, and it is equally clear that they would not have been justified in prohibiting a lawful assembly, nor could such prohibition have been legally enforced. I may mention as a case clearly in point"— "That upon one occasion the Government was asked to prohibit and to prosecute the usual procession of the apprentice boys of Derry. The Law Officers were consulted upon the subject, and they advised that as no information had been sworn that the procession was calculated to lead to a breach of the peace the Government could not interfere."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  continued—
 "With respect to the Catholic University procession all the above remarks apply to it. With respect to the M'Manus funeral procession, I am free to admit that it was of a very objectionable character, and for a purpose avowedly seditious, but it was managed with such apparent order and decorum that the Government did not feel that they could effectually interfere with it." 357 358 359 360
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I admit it, but I took it in confidence. [ Laughter. bonâ fide. 361 362 363 "I do not wish to revive in detail the memory of those rebellions to which the hon. Member has alluded. The past troubles of Ireland, the rebellion of 1641, and the wars which followed, I do not wholly forget; but I only remember them to deprecate the example and renounce the animosity."—[1  Hansard, Sir Robert Peel 364 "If all the blood shed on those occasions, if the many fights in the first, and the signal battles in the second period, and the consequences of those battles to the defeated and to the triumphant, shall teach our country the wisdom of conciliation, I congratulate her on those deluges of blood; if not, I submit and lament her fate, and deplore her understanding; which would render, not only the blessings of Providence, but its invitations, fruitless, and transmit what was the curse of our fathers as the inheritance of our children."—[ Ibid. "I call my countrymen to witness if in that business I compromised the claims of my country or temporized with the power of England. But there was one thing which baffled the efforts of the patriot and defeated the wisdom of the Senate—it was the folly of the theologians."—[ Ibid. "It is far less easy to eradicate evil passions than to repeal evil laws, and that long after every trace of national and religious animosity has been obliterated from the statute-book national and religious animosities continue to rankle in the bosoms of millions." 365 "Be not startled, reverend Sirs, to find yourselves addressed by one of a different communion. We are, indeed (to our shame be it spoken), more inclined to hate for those articles wherein we differ, than to love one another for those wherein we agree. But, if we cannot extinguish, let us at least suspend our animosities, and, forgetting our religious feuds, consider ourselves in the amiable light of countrymen and neighbours." "Let us for once turn our eyes on those things in which we have one common interest. Why should disputes about faith interrupt the duties of civil life, or the different roads we take to Heaven prevent our taking the same steps on earth? Do we not inhabit the same spot of ground, breathe the same air, and live under the same Government? Why, then, should we not conspire in one and the same design to promote the common good of our country?" 366
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : No, no! What I said was that Lord Derby, when Whig Secretary in 1832, brought in a measure which solely applied, in the view of the Government of that day, to the class of processions there.
 MR. HUTT  said, in reply, that the Report of Mr. Lawes upon his experiments on the relative merits of Malt and Barley for feeding Cattle had not yet reached him; but he understood that he should receive all the papers in two or three days, and he would take care that they should be in the hands of Members in ample time for their consideration before the debate upon the malt tax.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : As a matter of Order I do not apprehend that there is anything contrary to the Rules of the House in reading or quoting any opinion of the Law Officers. It is a question of discretion on the part of the Government, not one bearing on the Orders of the House. There may be occasions when they may be properly read. As a general rule, no doubt, they are not laid before Parliament, and for this reason, not because it would be against any Order of the House, but because the Law Officers would be more cautious in expressing an opinion if they knew that it was to be laid before Parliament and the public. But, as I have said, there may be occasions, like the present, when it is convenient and proper for the convenience of the House that such opinions should be made known.
 MR. ROBERTSON  said, that he should prefer to increase rather than to diminish the responsibility which was cast upon Chairmen of Committees, because he was convinced that it was by the former course only, and not by the latter, that the private legislation of that House could be improved. He strongly recommended the House to make the experiment which was decided upon last year. The Chairmen of Committees who were chosen for their fitness, had most onerous and responsible duties to perform, and the House ought to strengthen rather than to weaken their hands.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he has directed the Board of
 448
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the questions of the hon. Gentleman were calculated to some extent to mislead the House; because although the twelve-pounders had been shortened they had not been reconstructed, or, at any rate, no operation had been performed to justify the use of the term. The changes of pattern that had been made in these guns since 1863 had been for the most part extremely slight, and chiefly related to the mode of sighting the guns. The experiment which the hon. Member pointed out had not, as far as he (the Marquess of Hartington) was aware, been tried since the experiments at Shorncliffe in 1862. The experiment was unnecessary, because no failure of the twelve-pounder had been reported, and no complaints had been made, and because the gun so far had the entire confidence of the Artillery. As to the latter part of the question,
 450
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I believe that some of the Armstrong guns have had steel tubes put into them.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUHBY  remarked that a very small portion of the public accounts was submitted to this Committee. The time was approaching when it would be necessary that there should be a more general audit, although he was afraid it would involve a complete revision of our financial system. What was wanted was a system and an examination which would give the House a clear account of the way in which the public money was expended. He had had the honour of serving on this Committee for some years, and he thought that the House should know that its powers and its usefulness were extremely limited.
 MR. HIBBBRT  seconded the Motion.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he had not intended to take any part in the discussion of a Motion which only very narrowly escaped being a proposal for the abolition of himself, nor should he have risen at all but for the personal turn which, owing to the remarks made by the hon. Member for Truro (Mr. Augustus Smith), the debate had taken. That his hon. Friend should call the office of Parliamentary Secretary to the Poor Law Board a sinecure, simply proved that he did not know in what the duties of the office consisted. Of his own conduct while he occupied the Office he was not about to enter into any defence. Upon that point he should leave it to those Gentlemen upon both sides of the House who bad had occasion to refer to him for information upon Poor Law matters, to form an opinion. He, of course, he might add,
 466
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had no intention of offering any opposition to the introduction of this Bill; but the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, in the last portion of his speech, had touched on a matter respecting which it would have been a great advantage if he had afforded some information—namely, what the amount of the shifting of burdens would be. It would be very desirable before they came to decide the question that he should give the House that information, for, no doubt, it was in his power to do so. The right hon. Gentleman stated that the change made in the law as regarded the removal of the poor was one made in the interest of the landlords on the repeal of the Corn Laws. Now, that great boon to the poor arose out of the terrible distress resulting from the sending back from the manufacturing districts in 1840, 1841, and 1842, of great masses of people who had gone to work in those districts. That was the foundation of the change. It had nothing whatever to do with the Corn Laws. The right hon. Gentleman said, also, that the riots of 1831 and 1832 were owing to the settlement laws. He was old enough to remember them; and, living as he did in the middle of England, had seen something of them, and he never heard them attributed to that course before. There was great distress in the country; the changes from the great war were just working out; there were changes
 483 484
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If, in consequence of
 451 Vict. & Vict. Vict. 452
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was not aware of any such intention on the part of the Admiralty.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the Report of the Patent Agent had been laid before the Board of Admiralty but it was in the nature of a confidential Report, and he thought it was not advisable to lay it on the table of the House.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, that when reference was made to the practice of the House of Lords they ought not to overlook the circumstance that in dealing with the Private business of that House great authority was left to be exercised by Lord Redesdale, the Chairman of Committees. In one instance in which he had sat as the Chairman of the Committee upon a Bill, the agent for the promoters afterwards pointed out to him alterations in about 150 clauses, which he said were suggested by the Lords, and upon his inquiring whether he meant the Lords' Committee or Lord Redesdale, he replied that in every instance he meant Lord Redesdale. When they were asked to alter their practice that it might conform to that of the House of Lords, it was important that they should bear in mind that their Committees had a practical authority to exercise and work to do. Having acted as Chairman of Committees, he could imagine the possibility of a Committee being placed in circumstances of great embarrassment by the Chairman being deprived of the authority which might lawfully belong to him, and by two members being enabled to neutralize his influence.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  complained that he had been entirely misrepresented by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers), and explained that he did not object to the representation of the Poor Law Board in that House, but he did complain that it should be represented by two Members; what he opposed was superfluous representation, and in his opinion one officer would be quite sufficient. In the case of other offices which had a double representation, one representative sat in the other House of Parliament. At present it was more largely represented than any other public Department of the Executive.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  explained that what he stated was that it was not easy to ascertain what the office duties of the Parliamentary Secretary were.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  moved, pursuant to notice,
 "That the office of the one Secretary, rendered capable of sitting or voting as a Member of the Commons' House of Parliament by the ninth clause of the Poor Law Act, lately vacated ought to be abolished." 457 Hansard, 458 459
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that the fees paid to the Consul at Rome were paid under an Act of Parliament, and were not the perquisite of that gentleman, but went into the Treasury, and were accounted for in the Estimates.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Evesham had overlooked this fact, that the Poor Law Board was a body controlling the free action of the ratepayers and magistrates throughout the United Kingdom, and, therefore, could not be said to form part of the general representation of the kingdom, whereas the Woods and Forests had to perform duties of a purely economical character. This made it doubly important that an official from that Department should always be present in the House to answer questions.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, I rise to ask leave to introduce the Bill of which I have given notice, the purport of which is properly described in the terms of that notice as a Bill to provide for the better distribution of the charge for the relief of the poor in Unions. That is the limit of
 469 470 471 472 473 474 475 476 d. d., 477 "One of the principal effects of the law of (Parochial) Settlement is on the building of cottages, and that effect it has exercised ever since its first introduction. I could refer the Committee even to pages in  Arthur Young's Letters, "It is with regard to the residence of the labouring classes that the law is productive of the most cruel hardship of all.… Many respectable witnesses examined before the Committee of 1847, and before the gentlemen appointed by the Poor Law Board in 1848, give numerous instances, within their own knowledge, of labourers having to walk several miles to work every morning, and as far home every night.… The labour which the farmer thus procures is deteriorated in value, and the open parish in which he (the labourer) dwells is often so overcrowded with labourers driven into it from the neighbouring close parishes that the greatest evils, social, sanitary, and moral, are found to be the result." 478 Will. 479 "Whether after fifteen years have elapsed since the Docking Union was constituted a union for
 480 "Whether second rate, or partially able-bodied, labourers have failed to find employment, because no longer directly chargeable to their respective parishes?—I believe this class of labourers now experience less difficulty in finding employment, as they have less repugnance to move about the union in search of work. But that which to me seems of the most importance and the most valuable result of this measure is that the character of the able-bodied labourer is now much more appreciated by himself, from the knowledge that there exists no longer any reluctance on the part of employers to find good and constant work for a good, steady, and industrious man, come from whatever parish he may in the union, an employer having, in fact, a decided preference for such a labourer, to one, in his own parish, of a doubtful character." "Whether removal by orders of magistrates have been fewer?—As a consequence of our present system, removal orders from one parish to another in the Docking Union have entirely ceased, a not very inconsiderable advantage; and I believe I am justified (judging from the reports of our county sessions) in adding that removal orders to other unions have greatly diminished, from the fact that the guardians are now more vigilant in investigating all cases of doubtful settlement ere they run hastily into the expenses entailed by re-sorting to a court of law." 481 "One important result I anticipate from the transfer of all relief to the common fund; it will have a tendency to obliterate any spirit of selfishness in those who are intrusted with the responsible duties of a Poor Paw Guardian, They will no longer feel, as some men possibly do, that their principal mission to the board room is to watch the particular interests of their own parish, and that they have no concern in the general business of the union. There will be no longer an arena for conflict as to chargeability between one parish and another. The attention of the guardians will be directed to consider the necessities of the applicants and the assistance which their eases require; to supervise the general business of the union and the conduct of the officers. In fact, they will have one object in common." 482
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, his hon. Friend had described the office of Secretary to the Poor Law Board as a sinecure which ought to be abolished, but he seemed to have forgotten what had been decided on this matter upon more than one occasion by the Hou3e. He also seemed to have forgotten what he was understood to say at an earlier part of his speech—namely, that he did not know much of the merits of the question, and that neither he nor the Committee upstairs knew what were the duties which belonged to the Office, and expressed his regret that the Committee did not inquire into the subject.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : That amounts to pretty much the same thing, for it assigns the reason why my hon. Friend has not become informed about them. My hon. Friend said that the Committee had not taken any evidence. Now, I beg to say that other persons have inquired into this Office, and have collected the information that was necessary to enable them to form an opinion upon the subject. This matter has been deliberately discussed upon three different occasions in this House, and when the hon. Member gave notice of his Motion I presumed that he had some new matter to submit to us. This Office was discussed when the Bill by which it was created was before this House. Again, in the House of Lords the question was discussed. It was then asked whether a Secretary of this Department should be in Parliament, and it was assented to. But there was a still
 460 "Will you explain why it was thought necessary to have two paid Secretaries instead of one as under the old Commission?" "The Committee will observe that now there is practically but one Commissioner. Formerly there were three, who divided the business among them, but the responsibility now rests upon one Commissioner exclusively; and the same amount of work that was formerly distributed among three Commissioners and one Secretary is now distributed among a President and two Secretaries." "Mr. Bright.—Are you of opinion, Mr. Baines, that the expenses of your office, most particularly the staff of your Department, could be diminished?"—"I have considered the matter very fully with an anxious wish to effect a reduction, and I have consulted those of greater experience than myself, and the result of my deliberation is that it would not be possible to do with less with due regard to the efficiency of the public service." 461 462 463 464
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that an application had been received from the Bombay Government, which he referred to the Sanitary Commissions sitting under the authority of the War Office for their opinion. He did not feel himself justified from their Report in complying with the request.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  asked why the Chairman should not have a casting vote in the present instance as well as in the case of other proceedings before the
 445
 MR. LYALL  said, he was a member of the Committee to which allusion had been made that evening, and the question had been discussed whether the Parliamentary seat of the President of the Poor Law Board should be confined to the House of
 467
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, all this discussion would have been avoided if the House had agreed to a Committee of three, and he believed the House had been induced to reject the Motion of the hon. Member for Walsall on the understanding that the proposition of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for North Lancashire was to be agreed to. It now appeared, however, that whatever influence his hon. and gallant Friend might have with the President of the Board of Trade, the influence of the hon. Member for Birmingham was still greater, for the right hon. Gentleman seemed to have departed from the views which he held on a former occasion, when he professed to regard the respective merits of three and four as a sort of Schleswig-Holstein question, and to be rather in favour of such a proposal as that under discussion.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought it extremely probable the House would find it expedient to return to five, which was much better than the number four, or adopt the proposition of the hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Charles Forster) and fix the number at three.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether any batteries of the present service pattern of twelve-pounder Armstrong field-guns, as reconstructed and shortened since May, 1863, have been subjected to the hundred shotted rounds of continuous rapid fire, such as disabled six out of twelve guns of the previous pattern at Shorncliffe in 1862, and caused the above reconstruction; and, if any gun of the present pattern, with an inner tube of steel or coiled iron, has stood one thousand shotted rounds of rapid fire; and, if so, whether he will lay the Report of these trials upon the table of the House?
 MR. H. BAILLIE : Am I to understand that none of the Armstrong guns have had steel tubes put into them?
 MR. H. BARING  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the fee paid to the English Consul at Rome for obtaining his  visa
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it appeared to him that there were two objections to the proposal of the hon. and gallant Gentleman which were worth considering. First, it would have the effect of neutralizing the influence of the Chairman, They had been accustomed to believe, and he thought they
 443
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, the mass of Private business had certainly worn a sufficiently alarming appearance to justify the hon. and gallant Gentleman in entertaining the subject originally, but he was not without hope that the difficulty would prove less overwhelming than he anticipated. Having to choose between two inconveniences arising under the new system, he should give his voice in favour of the Chairman's casting vote.
 MR. SPEAKER : This is the time for the Questions. The Motion of the hon. Gentleman should have been made at the time of the Notices of Motion.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman, in bringing in his Bill, had not complied with the recommendation of the Committee that in any legislation to extend the area of charge or management particular attention should be paid to the requirements of the metropolis. When the Bill of 1861 wa3 before the House he had showed that so far from the substitution of three years for five years being a relief to the metropolis it would be a burden to it, casting an extra charge upon the large single parishes; and he hoped his right hon. Friend would in his Casual Poor Bill pay particular attention to the peculiar requirements of the metropolis. This Bill, like the three years' Bill, would be a detriment to the several parishes, especially those that were unions in themselves. This he had shown to be the case with respect to St. George the Martyr, in Southwark. A statement had been prepared by the Board of Guardians of that parish showing the number of persons who had become chargeable as irremovable poor there, who, but for that Act must have been relieved in other parishes where they had a settlement; and this statement he had the honour of laying before the President of the Poor Law Board, when he introduced a deputation from the Guardians of St. George the Martyr, on the subject of the equalization of the poor rates in the metropolis. From this statement it appeared that a great number of persons who had no legal settlement in St. George's parish had become irremovable in consequence of their three years' residence, and this poor parish had to bear the consequent expense. Now, what advantage did this Bill afford to the poor parishes in the metropolis? Why, none whatever; and it would seem strange only to pass a Bill such as this, which left out of consideration the interests of the metropolis, consisting now of between three and four millions, or nearly one-fifth of the entire
 485 "That the circumstances of the metropolis are so peculiar that in any legislation to extend the area of charge for management, it would be necessary to have regard to those circumstances." 486
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, To lay upon the table the Report of William Carpmael, the Patent Agent, on Mr. John Clare, junior's, patents, which Mr. Clare alleges to have been made use of by the Admiralty in the  Warrior,
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN,  in rising to move the following new Standing Order,
 "All questions before Committees on Private Bills shall be decided by a majority of voices, and whenever the voices are equal the question shall be resolved in the negative,"
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, it was only a Chairman utterly unacquainted with the rules and mode of putting Questions in the House who would act in the manner suggested by the hon. Member, seeing that it was the duty of the Chairman to be guided by the rules of the House in that matter. The only reason for changing the system of the House in these matters was, that in practice it had been found by the Committee of Selection so extremely difficult to obtain five Members to serve upon each Committee that it became necessary to consider whether it was absolutely requisite to adhere to that number. A great deal was to be said in favour of both views, but the House last Session adopted the Resolution for the reduction of the number by a considerable majority. From the expressions of opinion now put forward, however, it seemed that there were many who were strongly in favour of going back to the number five; and if that view should prevail, if hon. Members thought that the Private Bills could not be properly entertained by a less number, by all means let that course be adopted. He must say, however, as Chairman of the Committee of Selection, that their duties in framing the Committees would be very considerably increased. If he were quite certain that Committees composed of three Members would be fully attended in every case, he should be willing to vote for three as a proper number. But knowing the enormous amount of capital with which the Committees were called on to deal, he was quite certain that the large companies, having enormous interests at stake, would not be satisfied if by any accident the number were reduced to two. With two Members, the House must bear in mind that all the objections urged against the casting vote of the Chairman applied with still greater effect. He entirely disclaimed any personal feeling on this question. His only object was to get the Private business
 447
 MR. R. HODGSON  said, he hoped that the House would not agree to this proposal of the hon. and gallant Gentleman. He could not help thinking that they were altering the Standing Orders without due deliberation, and with more chance of doing harm than good. Although the principle now recommended by the hon. and gallant Gentleman prevailed in the courts of law and in the House of Lords, he had never known a case in which the members of a Committee of that House being equally divided the decision had passed in the negative. Indeed he had been informed by noble Lords who had acted as Chairmen of Committees that the almost universal practice in case of equality of voices was not to take a decision, but to adjourn. He should prefer to revert to the old number of five members; but if the number was to be
 442
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that for his own part he was sorry that the number of the Committees on Private Bills had
 444
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the Board of Inland Revenue had no authority, nor could he give them any, to apply generally for the evidence of professional men, in regard to collecting and assessing the Legacy and Succession Duties. It would, however, be very agreeable to the Government or the Board to receive the assistance of any professional men who were likely to conduct these inquiries. With respect to the latter part of the Question of the hon. Gentleman he had, no doubt, the means of knowing what were the grievances complained of. The Government and the Board of Inland Revenue were cognizant of the additional charge, for instance, over and above the duties themselves. They were, of course, in contact with a body of professional men, whose duty it was to conduct that part of the business on the part of their clients, and it was probably known to the hon. Gentleman, that considerable discussion took place last autumn in the public journals, which had the effect of drawing general attention to the subject. There was a certain number of particular cases which were brought before him (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) in connection with the correspondence inserted in the public journals, and the communications which he had had with the parties on the subject of their complaints, pretty well opened to the Government the difficulties that occurred in the administration of the Jaw. That correspondence had not all been brought to a conclusion; but, as it was of a public character, there would be no objection, when it was finished, to lay it upon the table. He believed that the result of the inquiry would be to show that the principal part of the difficulty was inherent in the nature of the law and of such taxes. These taxes were more obviously justifiable in principle than, perhaps, any others, but in their administration they were necessarily attended with considerable difficulty. However, he entertained the hope that in revising a complicated system of procedure in an office of that kind, after a long period had elapsed since such a review had taken place, it might be found possible to intro-
 449
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman was perfectly right in the manner in which he had read the Bill. It would impose an additional charge upon the public, and on this ground. The Bank of Ireland, at present, performed an amount of work for the public, for which it did not receive adequate remuneration. A clear statement would be found in the short correspondence which had taken place on the subject. The Government thought it but fair to the Bank of Ireland that it should receive adequate remuneration for the performance of duties onerous in character, and which it discharged well. He invited the criticism of hon. Members—Irish Members and others—but the Bill, as it stood, represented what, after full examination, he believed the Bank of Ireland was entitled to receive. He had come to the conclusion that the additional payment should be £4,400 a year. The reason why the Bill was somewhat complicated was, that in conjunction with the rectification of the charge he proposed a rectification of form. At present the Bank of Ireland was under an arrangement which did not belong to the present mode of making up the public accounts. The Bank of Ireland managed the Irish National Debt without any remuneration, but it received an extra remuneration in consideration of doing the work of the National Debt for nothing. Instead of that it was now proposed to reduce the rate of interest on their loan to the same rate as that paid to the Bank of England, and to pay a distinct remuneration for the work it had to do in connection with the National Debt. The effect would be that the whole amount spent would be spent in conformity to the rules which governed the public expenditure generally. The hon. Baronet had asked another question with respect to the arrangement of the charge which
 454
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  assured the hon. Baronet that the Government were as anxious as any Member of the House could be to see this Committee on Public Accounts, which was an institution well founded, he thought, on the principles of Parliamentary government, made as efficient as possible, and armed with every power which could tend to complete that efficiency. With regard to the imperfection or partial development of the principle of audit in this country, that was a matter under the consideration of the Government, and with respect to which they thought it probable that they would have an opportunity shortly of adopting measures, and even of making proposals to the House, entirely in the spirit of the remarks of the hon. Baronet. With regard to the limitation of the powers of the Committee, he could only say he was quite sure that any recommendation that Committee might make, tending to enlarge their own powers, and supported by reasons to show that at present their powers were not so large as they ought to be, would come before the Government and the House with great authority; for he was satisfied that those hon. Gentlemen who had received such a mark of the confidence of the House as was indicated by their appointment on this Committee would not be likely to make a recommendation of that sort except upon good grounds.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER   moved That the Committee on Public Accounts should consist of the following Members:—Mr. WALPOLE, Mr. EDWARD PLEYBELL BOCVERIE, Sir STAFFORD NORTHCOTE, Sir HENRY WILLOUHGBY, Mr. PEEL, Lord ROBERT MONTAGU, Mr. HOWES, Mr. GOSCHEN, and Mr. POLLARD-URQUHART.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether a requisition has been received from the Bombay Government for a large supply of Disinfecting Powder; whether the application has not been complied with; and on what grounds?
 SIR ARTHUR BULLER  asked the Secretary for the Admiralty a Question of which he had given him private notice—namely, Whether there is any truth in a rumour which was prevalent in the Devonport Dockyard, and he believed in other Dockyards also, that it is the intention of the Admiralty to propose some alteration of the present Superannuation system by substitution of an increased rate of wages or otherwise?
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  thought the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Arthur Mills) was scarcely correct when he said that the Motion had been brought forward with the view to assimilate the practice of the House of Commons to that of the House of Lords. It was brought forward rather to carry into effect a promise which the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire had made on a previous occasion when the Motion for the substitution of the number three for four was rejected—a Motion which he regretted to say he did not succeed in getting the House to adopt.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it be the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce this Session any Measure to regulate the Law of Marriage in the United Kingdom, or to institute any inquiry by means of a Committee of that House, or a Royal Commission, with a view to future Legislation?
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  was of opinion that if the Motion before the House were adopted the House would not be laying down a rule for the guidance of Committees, but rather raising a number of points tending to embarrass them. The result, indeed, would be that, unless a regular code as to the manner in which the proceedings should be conducted and the Question put were drawn up, the Chairman would get back in an indirect way
 446
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, Her Majesty has been advised to issue a Royal Commission for the purpose of inquiring into the state of the Marriage Law.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that as the question was under the consideration of the Commission to which the hon. Member had referred, he could only consent to its introduction on the condition that there was to be no discussion until the Report of the Commission had been made.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had to thank his hon. Friend for having brought the circumstances of the case under his notice on Friday last. He had transmitted his hon. Friend's statement to the magistrates in order to ascertain whether the facts were reported correctly, and also to receive their explanation. He had not as yet received their report, but he expected that he should receive it on Tuesday or Wednesday. With respect to the general law, his hon. Friend had stated it correctly. In default of the penalty being paid, and there being no means of levying it by distress, the defendants might be imprisoned for a period of three months unless the penalty was sooner paid. That was the case generally, unless where it was qualified by an express provision. In the Metropolitan Police Act there was such a qualification, and the term of imprisonment in default was one month instead of three. This state of the law required revision, and he felt obliged to his hon. Friend for having called his attention to the case.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he understood that this Bill imposed a slight additional charge on the State, though the first clause intimated a slight reduction. He desired, also, information on another point. Assuming the quantity of stock in Ireland to be under £30,000,000, £450 a million was to be paid upon it; but if the quantity was above £30,000,000, then the payment was to be at the rate of £300 per million, which, of course, would be a very considerable reduction. He wanted to know what would be the amount of charge that would be thrown upon the public by the Bill?
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  could not see why the Poor Law Board should have two representatives in that House, and the Department of Woods and Forests not one. A Committee of that House had recommended that there should not be a second representative of the Poor Law Board in that House, and he thought the noble Lord at the head of the Government ought to have taken that opportunity of correcting—without any change in the number of office-holders in Parliament—the anomaly of the double representation of the Poor Law Board and of no representation of the Woods and Forests. He wished to see all Departments represented.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he felt bound to support the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Truro (Mr. Augustus Smith). He was happy to bear testimony to the conscientious and able manner in which his duties while at the Poor Law Board had been fulfilled by the hon. Member for Northampton (Mr. Gilpin), nor did he wish to say a single word against the Department itself. It had well performed its functions in the case of the people of Lancashire, who were deeply thankful for its exertions in their behalf, and by whom it was regarded with a higher degree of favour than it had ever been before. The ground, then, on which he should vote for the Motion was because he believed that it never was intended, when the Act of 1847 was passed, that there should be in the House of Commons both a President and a Secretary connected with the Poor Law Board. In the discussions upon that Act it was stated that the intention was, that there should be a Secretary sitting in that House, while the President should have a seat in the House of Lords; and the then Secretary for the Home Department (Sir George Grey), in bringing in the Poor Law Administration Bill, said—
 "There will also be two Secretaries, and it is proposed that the President and one of the Secretaries shall have seats in Parliament. I do not say they both shall have seats in this House, but it is essential that the Board should be repre-
 465 Hansard Hansard,
 MR. HIBBERT  moved for leave to bring in a Bill "to permit capital punishments to be carried out under certain regulations within the interior of prisons." He did not intend to invite any discussion at this stage of the proceedings, because the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had expressed an opinion that, as the who e subject of capital punishments was now under the consideration of a Royal Commission, it would be well to postpone it until the Report of that Commission was received. If he were allowed to bring in the Bill he should, therefore, defer the second reading until after Easter.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think the question at issue scarcely admits of argument after the able statement of my right hon. Friend near me (Mr. C. P. Villiers). I wish, however, the House to consider what is the tendency and what would be the probable effect of the Motion of the hon. Member for Truro. He says the Government is too strong in this House; but a very different opinion has more than once been expressed by many hon. Members. I have heard complaints made that the different Departments are not sufficiently represented here, in order, face to face with the House of Commons to explain and account for the conduct of those Departments. We were told last year that there were too many of the representatives of some of the great Deparments of the public service in the House of Lords, and that it was a constitutional principle that this House should have in it Members of all the Executive offices of the State, in order that full information with respect to them might be given to hon. Members when they required it, and defence and explanation offered for conduct that might be impugned. My right hon. Friend has stated that his public duties elsewhere might interfere from time to time with his being present here, and if there were no Parliamentary Secretary there would then be no person to furnish that information. As to the opinion of my hon. Friend (Mr. Augustus Smith) that the Office is a sinecure, I think that the statement of my right hon. Friend (Mr. C. P. Villiers), confirmed by that of my hon. Friend (Mr. Gilpin), who lately filled the office of Parliamentary Secretary, and whose valuable assistance I regret to say we have lost, completely disposes of the allegation that the Office is a sinecure. There is no more reason, in my opinion, why this Secretary ship should be abolished than that connected with any other of the public Departments, and I do hope that as the Office is necessary to the proper working of our system of Parliamentary responsibility the House will not accede, on what I cannot help thinking insufficient grounds, to the Motion of my hon. Friend.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  said, that the bankruptcy of the Thames Navigation Commission, although a reason why it should not engage in an opposition before a Committee, was none why it should not petition against this Bill; and, therefore, in the absence of any petition from that body, he had a right to assume that they did not seriously object to it. It was important that the House should understand the real state of this question. Cheltenham, a town with something like 40,000 or 50,000 inhabitants, had for years been suffering severely from the want of a proper supply of water, and two schemes had been suggested for supplying the deficiency. One, which was put forward by the old water company, was to take the water from the river Severn; but the state of that river was such as to render any other measure preferable to this. The Severn had become the sewer of the Midland district, and drained an area of not less than 6,000 square miles, with a population of 1,000,000. The cities of Glocester and Worcester, Tewkesbury, Kidderminster, Bewdley, Shrewsbury, and other places, drained into it; dye works, tan works, and works of all descriptions poured their abominations into the stream, and the con-
 494
 MR. HENLEY  said, his constituents took a considerable interest in this matter. The Bill professed to take the Thames water into the Severn valley. The metropolis had been compelled to pay
 495
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, it was agreed on all hands that turnpikes within the metropolitan district were exceedingly inconvenient, and ought to be abolished as soon as possible. That was the course taken on the northern side, and the Government this year had selected three trusts—the Surrey and Sussex, the Bermondsey and Rotherhithe, and the New Cross trusts, all unaffected by incumbrances, as those with regard to which a similar policy should be pursued. If the House approved of the principle that turnpike trusts ought to be abolished when the trusts themselves were free from debt, they would reject this Bill.
 MR. COWPER  said, he thought the House would agree with him that the large open space between Westminster Bridge and Victoria Street, and the magnificent view of Westminster Abbey from that point, rendered it inexpedient to encumber that open space with any buildings. He proposed to lay an Estimate on the table for facing with stone the unfinished part of
 499
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the Report of the Science and Art Department included the Report of five or six other Scientific Institutions, and the Report of them had had not yet been received; but he had
 501
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the directions of all the Acts of Parliament had been properly complied with. The Navy Accounts had been presented on the first day of the Session, the Revenue Accounts had been laid upon the table within one week after the meeting of Parliament, and the Works and Buildings and Woods and Forests Accounts had been sent to the Audit Board before the end of October, and had been duly returned to the Treasury before the close of last month.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he did not know anything about Wands worth Common, but could not for a moment agree to what had been said by the hon. Member for Southampton (Mr. Alderman Rose) as to Wimbledon. It was hardly necessary to defend Earl Spencer's character, for everyone who knew him would feel that what had been said of him by the hon. Member was perfectly unjust. He had himself property at Putney, and with other owners of property was opposed to the enclosure of Wimbledon Common; but, however they might differ from Lord Spencer as to the mode of carrying out his views, no one could have acted more candidly, fairly, and liberally. He (Colonel North) was against the enclosure of the common, but then that was only his individual opinion. The public had for years enjoyed Wimbledon Common in all its natural wildness, and he thought it should be continued in that state rather than be converted into an ornamental park. Earl Spencer said, that if when the subject came before the Committee the feeling there was adverse to enclosure he would reconsider the subject; and he was sure his Lordship would carry out this promise.
 MR. COWPER  said, that last year, when the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr.
 509 510
 COLONEL NORTH  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he thought it impossible to over-rate the importance of the subject, and the House was much indebted to the hon. Member for Longford for the manner in which he had brought it forward. The recruiting of the army, he believed, had now come almost to a dead lock. The ten years' service system was a complete failure; it entailed upon the country an enormous expense, and occasioned great inconvenience to all parties concerned. As the hon. Member truly observed, this, after all, was a finance question. Looking at the wages which our operatives and labourers were now receiving, it was impossible that the soldier should not need an increase of pay. It was natural, too, that the soldier should be discontented at finding that at the end of ten years' service, in which he was not only exposed to the enemy's bullet, but was called upon to perform more arduous duties in more deadly climates than the soldier of any other European army, his services were
 524 6d. 525 s. d.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I do not intend to follow the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Colonel North) into a discussion which I think had better be reserved for the Army Estimates. The hon. and gallant Gentleman has, however, thought proper to comment upon our
 527 528 529 530 531
 MR, O'REILLY,  in reply, said, he wished to advert to two points which had been raised in the discussion. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) had stated boldly that Roman Catholic soldiers were not to be trusted on their allegiance. Now, he felt he should lower himself and degrade the House if he wasted its time in answering such a charge. He would say for himself that, as a Roman Catholic, he would yield to no man in attachment to his religion and in his respect for every one of its precepts, and in obedience, so far as their authority extended, to the heads of that religion. He wished to make no species of reserve for himself—such as was sometimes made by persons like the hon. Member for him. He was a Roman Catholic of the Roman Catholics, and he yielded in a faithful observance of the oath of allegiance to no man of any religion. The hon. Member had unwittingly uttered what he would not call a calumny, but which was certainly a statement very injurious to the memory of a great man, the late Duke of Wellington. He would, on another occasion, take an opportunity of asking some one competent to answer on the part of the Government whether it was true that any order was issued or now existed by which Roman Catholics were excluded from any branch of Her Majesty's service. If any such order existed he would scorn any Roman Catholic who entered a service in any branch of which he was held unworthy to serve. The noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington) had inaccurately represented him as depreciating the effect of bounties in securing a large enlistment in time of war. His objection was to that system of enlistment which sought our recruits solely in the great towns and through the attractions of the ginshop. The noble Lord told the House that the sweepings of the towns were good enough for the army, and that they made good soldiers. While he did not think it desirable to recruit the army from the upper or middle classes, or, indeed, from the skilled classes, he yet thought that the army was an honourable profession for the young men of the labouring classes, and it was to the honest and respectable members of that class to whom they should look to fill the ranks of the army. He would not press his Motion to a division, being convinced that if his
 535
 LORD STANLEY : The noble Lord has improved the occasion for the purpose of advertizing his missionary society. I do not object to that, for if the accounts we have are correct, it stands in considerable need of some such support. But that is not my reason for rising. I think my right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) has done good service in bringing this subject before the House; and I do not at all regret that that other and larger question, the African squadron, is not at least in form made part of the inquiry. I do not believe it is possible altogether to leave that out of the question. I do not believe it is possible to go into one part of the subject, of our relations with the West Coast of Africa, without dealing also with the rest. But it is quite large enough for a separate investigation; and as we have borne with that remarkable English enterprise for so many years, we may, I think, very well endure it for some time longer. For my own part, I do not wish to conceal my opinion that if the people of this country knew what has been and what is the waste, I do not say of money merely but of what is much more important, valuable lives on that coast, that African squadron would very shortly be numbered with the things of the past. I do not believe there is a year or even a month that passes in which the service on that coast does not put an end to some life among our officers, which, measured by any rational standard of comparison, is worth more than the merely animal existence of a whole African tribe. But that matter may very well stand over. What I wish to urge on the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Caldwell) is not simply that he should sanction this inquiry, which I believe he is prepared to do, but to allow the order of reference to be made wide enough to cover that which is the real question at issue. If we are merely to go into the question of civil and military expenditure to see whether it be possible to keep up these establishments at somewhat less cost than we incur at present, that is altogether an insignificant matter. The real question is whether there are not some at least among these settlements which involve us in great outlay and risk, and the maintenance of which serves no useful purpose. When I say they serve no useful purpose, I mean that they do not answer the end of promoting our trade; because I suppose
 551 552 553 primâ facie
 MR. J. J. POWELL  observed, that there were many Members deeply interested in this question who were not present because they understood there was to be no debate. He need scarcely remind the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets that it was on the
 561
 MR. CARNEGIE,  in supporting the Motion, said, that having served in two regiments which had that advantage, he was in a position to bear testimony to the importance of having regiments connected with different localities. He knew of a soldier in one of those regiments who, being minded to desert, in order that the fact might not come to the knowledge of his friends and relatives, had volunteered into another regiment and then deserted from that. He was sorry to remark a tendency to discontinue the practice of allowing particular regiments to wear distinctive badges or ornaments. Not that regiments which had not distinctive badges were in a position of inferiority to the others, but it was a great thing for a regiment to have something to swagger about. It was a help, too, to the recruiting sergeant to be able to say, "Our regiment is the only one which has a right to such and such a badge,"—it made the recruit fancy that it must be a fine regiment to join, and it promoted the  esprit de corps,
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, that after the very able and elaborate statement of his right hon. Friend, it would ill become him to occupy the time of the House to any great extent by enlarging upon what had been already stated. He must, however, express his satisfaction that his right hon. Friend had redeemed the pledge that he gave at the end of last Session in moving for this Committee at so early a period of the present year, because he believed that there were ample materials to occupy the attention of the Committee for a very considerable part of the Session. The unfortunate Ashantee war, which last year was the cause of so much pain in the House, was of itself sufficient ground for a Committee, but there were other reasons why an inquiry should be now undertaken. The state of affairs on the West Coast of Africa was now, and had been for a considerable period, most unsatisfactory. Without any intention to prejudice the present occupiers of the Colonial Office, he must say that that matter had been the  bête noir 548 549 550
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that he would have no objection to lay upon the table the general items of the cost of repairs and alterations of the  Royal Sovereign Prince Consort: Royal Alfred,
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, in reference to the answer which he gave on Friday, Whether (in accordance with the provisions of the Act 9 & 10  Vict. Vict. Vict. 502
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The object of the Bill was to divert 1,000,000 gallons of water daily from the Thames, and take it into the valley of the Severn. This would seriously affect the health,
 491
 MR. O'REILLY  rose to call attention to the present mode of recruiting for the army, not merely with a view to the difficulties now found of keeping up the strength of the army, but also of placing it on a sounder and better footing in case of
 516 The Times 517 518 519 520 521 522
 MR. AYRTON,  referring to the absence of the Government at the moment, Mr. Brand being the only official Member present, said, it was due to the country to take notice of the condition of the House on this occasion. It was not, perhaps, to be expected that hon. Gentlemen on the other side should grace the House with their presence at that time. It did happen, indeed, that a Member of the late Administration (Mr. Adderley) was present, but that was due to the accident that a Motion in which he was interested had just been disposed of. It was natural, however, that there should be some curiosity to learn the views of the Government on a question of such importance. Not long before, there were some Members of the Government present, but when his hon. Friend the Member for Leeds rose they all fled from the Treasury Bench, as if they were going to be reminded of some crime they had committed. No doubt it must be most painful to them to see his hon. Friend introducing this question, and to which a few years ago they were pledged, and to which they professed to attach so much importance, that they thought it their duty not to allow the present Opposition to retain office a moment after the beginning of the present Parliament. If there were any Members of the Government in or about the House they ought to be in their places; but even those who were in attendance carefully avoided the Treasury Bench. This was a curious illustration of the way in which the Government redeemed the solemn pledge on which they came into office. The present state of the House was a most distressing condition of things, and he thought it ought to be known, in order that it might be understood throughout the country what were the feelings of the Government on the very question on which they came into office.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he thought if any argument were required to reject the Bill, it was the argument of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich, that the parishes he had mentioned would then have to pay for their own roads. He did not see why the large populations of Bermondsey, Southwark, and Camber well should be called upon to pay for the roads of Deptford and Greenwich.
 MR. ADDERLEY,  in moving for a Select Committee to consider the state of the British Establishments on the Western Coast of Africa, said, that it was a country notoriously unfit for occupation by the Anglo-Saxon race—a country which had been lately described by the highest authority as being, from one end of it to the other, a hotbed of disease, the occupation of which by us could only be justified by the highest and most disinterested motives—he would even say by the attainment of the objects in view compensating for the enormous sacrifice of life and treasure. And yet in this unhealthy spot, to say nothing of the large naval establishment, costing this country nearly £1,000,000 a year, we had no less than four settlements. The first was established long ago for the object of promoting the slave trade. Of late years it had been maintained for the opposite object of suppressing the slave trade, and for substituting legitimate commerce and civilizing the Natives of that coast. Two hundred years were spent by us in inflicting moral and physical injury on that country, and the last fifty years we had spent in attempting something like reparation. He wished for inquiry in order to see whether these settlements as settlements were well ordered and regulated, and whether they attained their object, or, on the contrary, did not rather obstruct it. On the first point he thought there was sufficient reason for inquiry, from the recent experience of one of those settlements. It was only last Session that the House was filled with alarm and anxiety, and some Members of it exposed to the bitterest suffering, owing to the Governor of the Gold Coast—
 536 537 "The people are the very pests of the neighbourhood. The Sierra Leone people are detested wherever they go, and always in bad odour with every one. The uneducated tribes on the coast are far more intelligent, and the Natives do more work where the white man has not settled." "It is very difficult to avoid being mixed up with the troubles of our neighbours. The belligerent
 538 "From the lawlessness of the Egbas, the state of affairs is going from bad to worse. I have recalled from Abbeokuta all persons claiming British protection. The missionaries, however, refuse to pay me any attention. X only get opposition from the British merchants and residents in Abbeokuta. My influence is undermined." 539 540 "We have made a great mistake in acquiring territory round Lagos. I was the first that ever entered the river, and some twelve years ago took possession of the eastern point in the name of the Government, for trading purposes. I was ordered to give it up again, as the Government did not wish to enlarge their possessions. But what have we done since? Taken the whole island of Lagos, with territory many miles up the Lagoon, as well as on the sea coast, which has led us into serious broils with the Native Chiefs. All but the island should be given up at once, keeping the customs of the river with a consul and a steamer. We have no business to establish ourselves about powerful chiefs and tell them to do exactly what we bid, or we shall blockade or bombard their towns. We have not the means of carrying out such threats, and are only laughed at. I would likewise give up all Gambia but one fort and the Gold Coast protectorate. We do no good; it brings no return, but does much harm." 541 542 "Remind the King that he himself suggested to Commodore Wilmot that 'if we wished to put a stop to the slave trade we should prevent white men from coming to buy them.' You will state that Her Majesty's Government, having determined that the traffic shall cease, will take steps to prevent effectually the export of slaves." "If the slave trade could be suppressed for 100 years it would break out again in six months after the removal of the suppressing force." "The climate is against all military operations, for which reason we should exert chiefly our moral power, holding little country for trading purposes. Our present success is not worth the blood and treasure yearly sacrificed for it. The squadron I have great faith in, but it must have more vessels, and some of peculiar speed and stowage. The monotony of the blockade is killing to officers and men. You can form no conception of what they have to undergo. I cannot speak too highly of their conduct under such trying circumstances—for months at anchor, rolling terribly; thermometer 86 degrees; no change of companions; no supplies of fresh stock, except at long intervals. We have not sufficient vessels to insure certain reliefs. I hope you will give my testimony to the merits of officers and men, for they richly deserve it." 543 "There is probably more trade in palm oil in the Bights of Benin and Biaffra, and in ground nut on the coast between Sierra Leone and the Gambia, where no colony exists, than in all the British settlements put together." 544 545
 MR. NEATE,  in seconding the Motion, said, that although he was not instructed by his constituents to oppose the Bill, which probably arose from their not being aware of its importance, he was informed that the University authorities at Oxford greatly objected to it on the ground that it would interfere with the supply of pure water to that city. The Thames Conservancy Board had petitioned against the Bill, and he had no doubt that a similar step would have been taken by the Thames Navigation Commissioners had it not been for the circumstance that they were in a state of bankruptcy, and had, in fact, thrown up their trust. The time was coming when towns and landed proprietors must look to other sources than rivers for their supply of water, and when it would be necessary to create in different parts of the country large reservoirs to retain the rain and winter water.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Members of the Parliamentary Bar have come to any agreement, that the practice before Parliamentary Committees shall be open to the Bar in general, on the same terms in regard to fees as prevail in the ordinary Courts of Law and Equity?
 MR. POTTER  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether the Report of the Department of Science and Art for the year 1864 will he issued previous to the Estimates for the Schools of Art and the South Kensington Museum being moved for?
 MR. CARDWELL : I have very great pleasure in acceding to the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman opposite. It is quite right that there should be an inquiry into this subject, and I am perfectly prepared to answer the appeal made by the noble Lord as to the order of reference, and to say that I shall not seek to limit the form of it. It appears a perfectly fair subject of inquiry how far these settlements have attained the ends for which this country instituted and maintained them. But I trust, I may say, without offence to the noble Lord, that I did hear with some regret the expressions which fell from the noble Lord with regard both to missionaries and the efforts Which this country
 554 555 Rattlesnake Rattlesnake 556 557 558
 MR. DOULTON : Fifteen miles.
 MR. DOULTON  observed, that the limit he should propose would be fifteen or twenty miles around the metropolis.
 MR. DOULTON,  in rising to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the best means of preserving for the public use the Forests, Commons, and Open Spaces in and around the metropolis, said, that the question of preserving for public use our forests and common lands around the metropolis had been so often under the consideration of the House that it would not be necessary for him to occupy more than a few minutes in asking for a Select Committee. The House had already upon more than one occasion given a very decided opinion upon this question. In 1863, upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Peacocke), the House passed a Resolution for an Address to Her Majesty calling upon her to exercise the rights which she still possessed with regard to Epping Forest. At the close of the last Session the House, by a decided majority, expressed its opinion that it was the duty of the Government or of some other body to provide for the preservation of the commons
 503 504
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he did not object to any amount of money being spent on the decoration of the metropolis, but he contended that it ought not to come out of the Imperial purse. He was at a loss to conceive on what possible ground of fairness and equity a claim could be made by the metropolis upon the public purse for its improvement and adornment, when if any other city in the country made a similar claim it would be hooted and scorned. He hoped that as long as the House of Commons exercised a control over that purse it would oppose itself to these rapacious proceedings.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that where the lord of the manor and the homage could come to terms together, it was unnecessary to apply to Parliament for any further powers with respect to enclosure; but if they were unable to come to terms, then an application to Parliament for such powers was requisite. The whole question as to Wimbledon Common turned upon whether Lord Spencer had the right to enclose in conjunction with the homage. If he had the right to do so, with the consent of the homage, there was no necessity for coming to that House. If, on the other hand, the right was disputed, it was only natural that he should endeavour to obtain the sanction of the Legislature for his proposal. If he was giving up any of his rights to the public, it was, of course, very disinterested in him. Some persons who dwelt in the neighbourhood said he had not these legal rights. It was proposed to refer it to a Select Committee to inquire into the subject, and ascertain, at all events, what  primâ facie
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, that no doubt the last speaker was right in saying that if the public had no legal right to be upon, or to use the commons, the lord of the manor could at any time, with the consent of the commoners, enclose a common. But if, on the contrary, the public had any rights over the common, the lord could not enclose without an Act of Parliament. The question of Wimbledon Common was one of detail, and it would, no doubt, be brought before the Committee. After reading the correspondence, he was
 511 Abbott v. Weekly, Levinz's Reports, 512 "It has been objected that it it is not alleged that the pastimes were allowed for the necessary recreation of the inhabitants; but the case in I  Levinz Fitch Rawlings, H. Bl. 513 "The question is, whether there was a way over the spot where the hurdles were put up. In one sense there was a way there and everywhere, for it appears that the green was part of the ancient forest, and the effect of the evidence is that people went wherever they liked; and so, in that sense, the whole forest was one great way…But there was no distinct evidence of any definite way in any particular direction; and though there were tracks from time to time which might last for a few weeks or months, there was no beaten or enduring track in any one direction which had lasted for years…Then as to the alleged custom, it is laid in the inhabitants, but the proof is wider than the plea, for it appears that all the world went wherever they pleased. It may be a question whether that would be a good custom in law, and of course if, in point of fact, it is proved as to all the world, it is proved as to the inhabitants. On the other hand, if the plea be taken to mean that the subject is only in the inhabitants, it is disproved, for the proof shows it to be, if it exists at all, in all the world."—(See  Schwinge Dowell, Foster and Finlason's Report, Viner's Abridgment "A custom which may be general, and extend to all the subjects in England, and is not warranted by, but contrary to the common law, is void." 514 "In the Isle of Man is a custom that if one steals a horse he shall not be hanged, but shall be fined and go quit, because the owner may have his horse again, and it cannot be eaten; but if one steals a hen or a capon, he shall be hanged, for it shall be intended that it was taken to be eaten, and so the owner could never have it again. This is a good custom."
 MR. WHALLEY  said, there were one or two isolated questions connected with this subject which might well occupy the attention of the House. One question was this—How far might Roman Catholics in the British army be relied upon in certain emergencies for their allegiance to the Crown, in spite of that higher allegiance which they were called upon to yield in religious matters to a higher authority? The Duke of Wellington, although he was the means of passing the Catholic Emancipation Act, would not allow a single Roman Catholic to be entered upon one particular branch of the army—the artillery. ["No, no!"] But he wished to call the attention of the House to this fact, that while in the last five years the number of Catholics and Protestants in the army generally continued in the same proportion—that was to say, about half and half—the Roman Catholic soldiers in
 534
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Under what circumstances and why the Order made on the 13th of February for printing the Tables which were on the 10th of February laid upon the table of the House, with reference to the Government Life Annuity and Life Assurance Bill of last Session, was subsequently discharged; and whether, notwithstanding the discharge of such Order, it is intended that such Tables shall be acted upon at the expiration of thirty days from the 10th
 500
 MR. DODSON  said, he must admit that
 492
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought the postponement had better be for six months, at the end of which Parliament would not be sitting. He should, therefore, move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. The question involved was not one of those which it was necessary to send to a Select Committee. Every hon. Member understood it. It was whether they liked turnpikes? The opinion of the House had been fully expressed; and one of the results was that all the turnpikes in the northern portion of the metropolitan district had already been abolished. There could be no doubt that a like act of justice ought to be done with regard to the turnpikes on the south side. This turnpike trust would expire this year. Its original period expired in 1846; but it had since been kept alive by the Annual General Turnpike Acts. The trust extended a long distance into the country, but the "sinews of war" were raised in the metropolitan district. The gate was well known to those who went to Greenwich by the old road. The first gate on it was that at the Green Man, which was either in the parish of St. George the Martyr or Camber well, each of which parishes repaired its own roads. This Bill proposed to do away with the Green Man Gate. The trustees could not have the face to keep up a gate in a parish which paid for its own roads, so they moved the gate a short distance farther to New Cross. This was a perfectly preposterous proceeding. The Surrey and Sussex Road Trust did not care to ask for a renewal. The hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Angerstein) appeared on behalf of Deptford. But why was Deptford to have its roads kept up by parishes in its vicinity? He could see no reason why the principle which had been adopted on the north part of the metropolitan district should not be extended to the south.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would support this Motion as he had supported a similar one last year, which was carried by a large majority, but it being late in the Session there was no time to appoint a Committee. The duties of the Committee now to be appointed would therefore be simplified inasmuch as they would not have to inquire whether these spaces should be kept open, but where the money for keeping them open was to come from. His hon. Friend was correct in assuming this, and deprecated any grant from the public purse for the purpose. Now, he did not agree with this view, and was sorry that his hon. Friend did not feel more for the capital of his country. Hon. Members came up to town from their constituencies and performed their duties here in the most exemplary manner; but when they went down to their constituents they often forgot the enlarged views which they had imbibed here, and adopted the contracted views which were enjoyed by some persons in the country. So it was with his hon. Friend. His hon. Friend represented a constituency far away from the metropolis. No man was more constant in gracing the House with his presence, and when in London no one was more generous or more delighted to enjoy the parks which were the ornaments of the metropolis; but when in the country he forgot his duty to the capital of his country, and he adopted the views of the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), and objected to a single shilling of Imperial money being laid out on London. Nevertheless, it was necessary to do something more for the metropolis, to which everybody came, than for every small town out of London. What had been done with respect to Battersea Park? It certainly was beautifully laid out, but a toll was put on Chelsea Bridge, and the consequence was that the land which surrounded the park, and which otherwise might be let to advantage, could not be let at all now. No persons would take houses situated in such a place that they could not go from it into the land of the living on the northern bank of the river without paying toll, except on a Sunday, Christmas Day, and Good Friday. The hon. Member for West Norfolk was very effective on a former occasion in objecting to the toll being taken off Chelsea Bridge, on the principle that the House had no right to spend anything upon the metropolis; but there would have been no necessity to spend public money on Battersea
 508
 MR. MARSH  hoped the object contemplated by the appointment of this Committee would be attained, but that not a single shilling of public money would be expended upon it. He altogether objected to the expenditure of public money for the exclusive benefit of the metropolis. It was said the metropolis was highly taxed; but his constituents were taxed quite as heavily as the inhabitants of the metropolis, and he thought it would be very unfair that they should be further taxed for the embellishment or recreation of the Londoners.
 COLONEL KINGSCOTE  said, the inhabitants of Cheltenham were all but deprived of water. There were two schemes now before the House for giving them a supply, one from the Severn, the other from the Thames. Cheltenham lay close to the hills in which rose springs, some of which were said to be the source of the Thames; but it was a mistake to suppose that the large quantity of water mentioned would be abstracted from the Thames, for there were springs from which a supply might be derived without touching the Thames at all, as everybody acquainted with the position of Cheltenham must be aware. He hoped, therefore, the House would allow the Bill to be sent to a Select Committee.
 MR. TORRENS  inquired to what distance from the metropolis would the proposed inquiry apply.
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been called to the large number of wrecks which have lately occurred on the north-west coast of Devon and Cornwall; and whether it is the intention of the Government to establish a Harbour of Refuge on that coast for the protection of the shipping?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that no doubt there had been many wrecks on the north-west coast of Cornwall and Devon, but he was not aware that last year was an exceptional year. It was not the intention, however, of the Government to propose any Vote of money for the establishment of Harbours of Refuge on that coast. There were other parts of the coast where a greater number of wrecks had taken place, more especially during the last year.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he was led to the conclusion, from the inquiries he had made, that a counsel practising before Committees of the House was at liberty to accept any fee which he might regard as a proper and adequate remuneration for the duties he was discharging. He concluded that counsel might accept any fee that the Bar in general might take in the ordinary course of practice.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he was very much inclined to give to Irishmen about to enlist in the British army the same advice which Mr. Punch once gave to persons about to marry, and that was "Don't." Until they received better treatment than at present, they would be wrong to do so. The hon. and gallant Gentleman who had last spoken seemed to ignore the drain which emigration was causing from Ireland. That drain, which was at the rate of 100,000 annually, if it continued, might some day lead to the importation of shiploads of white niggers from Germany. That was plain speaking, but it was not the less true. The worst of it was that these
 533 The Star
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, he had no direct knowledge of the circumstances under which the Order made on the 13th of February for printing the Tables laid on the table of the House on the 10th of February, with reference to the Government Life Annuity and Life Assurance Act of last Session, was discharged; but upon inquiry he learnt that it was discharged at the request of the Printing Committee, and for a very obvious reason. As soon as the Tables reached the Government, the Government ordered them to be put in type, and the printing was almost finished. He believed the Tables would be circulated to-morrow morning. The Government had been very anxious to expedite the printing of the Tables; but as they referred to sums of money which persons would have to pay in return for a certain benefit, it was necessary to be extremely accurate, and that had caused the printing to occupy a much longer time than he could have wished. He apprehended it was fixed by law that the Tables would take effect in thirty days after the time when they were laid on the table of the House. The general regulations of assurance and annuity business were directed to be laid on the table of the House; but the time of the commencement of the operation of the Act was not dependent upon the time when those regulations were presented. When those regulations were all made complete, and nothing but a few verbal matters remained to be considered, they would be laid on the table.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, on the ground that the promoters of this measure were not quite ready with all their facts, he would beg to move that the second reading of this Bill, which stood on the Orders, be postponed for a fortnight.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, it was patent to the House why the hon. Member opposed the Bill. He was a Member for Southwark. The roads in the trust in question were thirty-seven miles and a quarter in length. Originally there were eighteen parishes in the trust. Two of these—Camberwell and St. George the Martyr—had expressed a desire to he eliminated. Of the other sixteen parishes nine were in favour of the Bill and four against it, the remainder being neutral. What would be the effect if this Bill were not passed; Deptford would be taxed to the extent of £1,700 a year; Greenwich, 3,000 a year; Lewisham, £3,700 a year. When the House considered that a large district would be punished in that way if the Bill were not allowed to pass, he thought they would not agree to the Amendment, but that their feelings of justice would prompt them to permit the Bill to go into Committee, there to be discussed and decided upon on its merits.
 MR. COX  said, that in 1862 the lords of the manor of Chigwell, Essex, had come to Parliament to obtain permission to enclose the portion of Epping Forest lying in that manor, but on his (Mr. Cox's) Motion the Bill was referred to a Select Committee, when so good a case did the public make that the Bill came back with the recommendation that fifty acres of ground should be left free for the use of the inhabitants of the metropolis. That recommendation was adopted by the House; but the allotment had not yet been made. Now, he
 515
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, that if he had expressed his opinions in other than the ordinary terms allowed in debate he would readily apoligize. He felt strongly on the subject, and if he had used unparliamentary terms he would willingly withdraw them.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he rose to second the Motion. The question was one connected with a movement now going on the importance of which was scarcely recognized by the public at large or the House. It was intended to postpone the Bill for the enclosure of Wimbledon Common for a month to await the result of this Committee, and if the Committee were appointed he hoped they would get such information as would prevent so great a public outrage as the enclosure of that common being perpetrated. It was said that the noble Lord who was interested in the Bill (Earl Spencer), was only influenced by a desire to do a public benefit; but Members of the House had an opportunity of judging for themselves of the public spirit of the operation. If they would take a ride from Battersea Park to Wands worth Common they would see how the latter place was being appropriated by the noble Lord. He did not hesitate to say that in the appropriation of Wands worth Common
 505
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law of libel, and for more effectually so-curing the liberty of the press. The subject of legislation upon the law of libel was no novelty in that House. In the last century a Bill, known as Fox's Act, made a great change in the law of libel, and introduced many valuable improvements. From that time down to the year 1843, though various attempts for the purpose had been made, there was no substantial change in the law. In the latter year, however, on the recommendation of a Committee of the House of Lords, an Act, commonly known as Lord Campbell's Act, was passed, and since then the law had remained unaltered. He (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) did not intend to alter the law as to what should be held to be a libel, but to introduce such alterations in it as would conduce to the public advantage and to the liberty of the press. There was an anomaly in the present law, differing from, as it did, most other remedies for wrongs in that respect, that the person complaining of libel had the power either of resorting to a criminal court, or bringing an action for damages. Many persons who had considered the subject had recommended that the power of proceeding in a criminal court should be taken away. No such power existed in Scotland. He, however, was not prepared to abolish criminal proceedings for libel,
 562 563 bonâ fide
 MR. BAINES : I have to ask the permission of the House to introduce a Bill for the purpose of extending the elective franchise in boroughs in England and Wales. As I understand that this Motion is not to be opposed, I shall of course follow the usual custom of the House by not making any observations upon the merits of the question on the present occasion, but leave those remarks to be made on the second reading of the Bill. I may, however, state that my object is to give a moderate and yet substantial and valuable extension of the franchise to classes who constitute the great bulk of the people, and who are now entirely excluded from the privileges of the Constitution. I propose to do this by the simplest of all means, and in a manner that has been proposed in this House on high authority—namely, by lowering the borough franchise from an occupation of £10 to an occupation of £6. I believe I may, without provoking discussion at the present time, ask the Government and the House to do me the favour of giving their consideration to one important question before this matter is discussed—amply and fairly, as I hope it will be, on the second reading—and that is this:—This is the last Session of the present Parliament, and it is precisely with that knowledge that this question of the alteration of the franchise ought to be discussed and settled. I believe they will find there are many reasons in favour of this. The whole country would be saved the trouble and the cost of one general election, if a question of this nature were settled at the end instead of being settled at the beginning of a Parliament. If we have a great extension of the franchise, it is obvious there must be a dissolution immediately, in order to allow the new voters to exercise the franchise to which they will be entitled:
 560
 MR. BAINES  explained that it was perfectly understood between the Government and himself that there was to be no discussion that evening.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he should like to suggest a question. The three gallant Officers who had addressed the House had stated that a great difficulty was experienced in getting soldiers. Now, he thought that every Member of the House must frequently have seen able-bodied men with medals on their breasts sweeping crossings, and filling the lowest and meanest occupations, and even begging—men, too, who were evidently fit to serve as soldiers. He wanted to know the reason of such a state of things. It was a very painful spectacle to any one who respected the military profession, and he
 526
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, as a Member of the defunct Thames Navigation Commission, there was no doubt that if that body had not been in the unfortunate condition which had been described by the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) it would have petitioned against this Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Hutt) had given reasons which must have convinced every one that this Bill ought not to be allowed to proceed; but, unfortunately, he had failed to convince himself. As to the reasons given by the Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Dodson) that the facts were controverted, and that the quantity of water to be taken from the Thames would be infinitesimal, he (Sir George Bowyer) replied that he did not understand that the promoters denied that they were about to take 1,000,000 gallons of water a day from the Thames; he did not think that such a quantity could be treated as an infinitesimal one, and if it was infinitesimal, it could do no good to the people of Cheltenham. The state of the river Thames was such that no water, however small the quantity, ought to be abstracted from it, and therefore the best thing that the House could do would be to reject the Bill.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  was glad that the hon. and gallant Officer the Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North) had brought under the notice of the House the expense of discharging the men at the end of their ten years' service. The fact was that to bring home a man from India and to take out a recruit cost from £90 to £100. The soldiers knew this, and talked over in their barrack-rooms the circumstance that while the country only gave them 2 d. d. d. d.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If he will lay upon the table of the House a list of the alterations and repairs executed on the  Royal Sovereign, Prince Consort, Royal Alfred,
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he did not imagine that much good was likely to arise from prolonging the discussion, nor did he think that a practical remedy for the evils complained of was to be found in the issue of a new Commission. He felt, however, called upon to deprecate the manner in which the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington) had, in some respects, treated the Motion; because the House might be led to believe that no great apprehension was felt by officers in the army with regard to the operation of the Ten Years' Enlistment Act. Every officer in the army knew that the very reverse was the case. That sort of treatment of a Motion which spoke of Acts working well, and of Returns to be made on some future day, did very well—as the phrase went—for the House of Commons; but there were many officers sincerely desirous for the welfare of the army who would be much disappointed at the speech of the noble Lord, It was perfectly notorious that numbers of the best men who had arrived at the end of their term of service, when they were of the greatest use to their country, were leaving the army in great numbers to the great regret of their commanding officers who saw no means of retaining them. He had heard, with regret, that the noble Lord had thought fit to meet the candid statement of an hon. and gallant Gentleman, who was only known in that House to be respected, with remarks of a character which he (Sir James Fergusson) must say were very ill-directed towards him. The hon. and gallant Officer who sat behind him (Colonel North) had devoted considerable time and attention to this subject for a long series of years, and no one of greater experience in that House than the noble Marquess would have so far mistaken the purport of the observations made by that gallant Officer. There was nothing in the remarks of his hon. and gallant Friend which would bear the interpretation which the noble Lord had put upon them. All that he had done was to point out how much more valuable men at the expiration of ten years' service must be than were recruits, and how desirable it consequently was to offer them inducements to remain. And it was vain for the noble Lord to assure the House
 532
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any decision has been come to, and if so, in what way it is proposed to deal with the vacant ground between Bridge Street and New Palace Yard?
 MR. CAVE,  in seconding the Resolution, said, he did not wish to be understood as concurring in all the observations of the right hon. Gentleman. If, however, he had urged no other reason in support of his Motion than the length of time that had elapsed since inquiry had taken place, he thought he was entitled to carry it. The investigation which took place in 1842 was held with a different object from that now on view, when the idea was all but universally entertained that no amount of money was too great to expend for the civilization of the African. A feeling, however, now prevailed that this attempt was somewhat Quixotic, and that to tax this country heavily for such a purpose was rather going beyond the proper duty of the House. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that the question of the slave trade was one of supply and demand. At the same time an important element which had not been alluded to entered into the question, namely, that of price. The present price of slaves was the only obstacle to the demand for them, being ten times as great as formerly. He believed that if the blockading squadron were removed, if the settlements were suddenly taken away, the price of slaves would fall to such an extent that the demand from Cuba would enormously increase, and the supply follow; and that the Government of Spain, which he hoped was contemplating a different policy, would find the temptation to allow a continuance of the trade too strong for
 546 547
 MR. HUTT  said, that the Bill involved some very important questions which probably had hitherto been overlooked by the Legislature—namely, whether a commercial country should be permitted to abstract from its streams and rivers any quantity of water that might be deemed necessary for commercial purposes, and without providing any compensating supply to those who were interested in the preservation of the water. He thought that such powers should never be given lightly or gratuitously to any parties or persons whatever. But of this he was especially convinced, that the House would make a great mistake if, in the present condition of our rivers and streams, it allowed such powers to be taken. The present condition of our rivers and streams was a matter for very serious consideration, and perhaps had not been sufficiently looked after by them whose duty it was to guard and foster the cleanliness and wellbeing of the people. The comforts and health of our population would be seriously compromised if all persons who were desirous of establishing water companies should be permitted to divert large portions of our water supply from the natural water courses of the country. Under these circumstances, he had felt very much disposed to support the Motion of the noble Lord, but having heard the reasons given by his hon. Friend the Chairman of Committees, perhaps the better course would be to send the Bill to the Committee, whose Members having heard the opinions of the House would no doubt give the main question their most serious consideration.
 MR. JACKSON  said, that before the Committee was appointed the House ought clearly to understand whether this was only the beginning of a further charge upon the Consolidated Fund. They all remembered how that Fund had become chargeable in connection with matters of science and art. No less a sum than £60,000 had been spent out of the Imperial exchequer for Battersea Park; and though it was said that the park would pay itself by the sale of surplus property, he hoped the House would never sanction the Government becoming speculators in building land. He trusted it would be clearly understood that whatever was done by the Committee or upon their Report, there would be no demand for money from the Consolidated Fund.
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, that being one of the Members who had charge of the Bill which had been stigmatized by the last speaker as a public outrage, he could not remain silent. He desired to say that whatever might be thought of the enclosure of Wimbledon Common it was certain that Earl Spencer proposed to dedicate to the public, rights which were believed by his legal adviser to he of very considerable extent; and the noble Lord was surely perpetrating no public outrage when he took the only constitutional way of bringing the subject of that gift before the public. Lord Spencer's legal position was such that he need not have applied to this House for power to do that which the Enclosure Bill proposed to do. However that might be, and whatever his rights might be, his Lordship was quite willing—nay, desired—that the whole question should be referred to the Committee which had just been moved for, so that it might there be discussed. Lord Spencer did not shrink from inquiry—he courted it; and if upon consideration the Committee objected to the enclosure the noble Lord would no doubt be prepared to consider whether he should not give up the power of enclosure. At any rate, this and other questions were to be referred to the Committee and to be discussed by them, and meanwhile he protested against the language of the hon. Gentleman, as to whom the Mover of this Resolution might well
 506
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, that as a Select Committee would probably be appointed that night, on the Motion of the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Doulton), to consider the best means of preserving open spaces in the metropolis, he (Viscount Bury) would postpone the second reading of this Bill until the 21st of March. He would add, that Lord Spencer felt that many of the provisions of this Bill were misunderstood out of doors, and that further time for its consideration was required.
 MR. SCOURFIELD , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that he had introduced it in consequence of the Report of the Committee over which he presided last year. He made a suggestion to that Committee which did not go so far as to recommend the immediate introduction of a Bill; but the Committee, at the instance of Mr. Massey—than whom he could name no higher authority—agreed to a recommendation that a Bill should be introduced for giving costs in certain cases. At the same time, it was right that he should state that he was thoroughly convinced of the justice of the measure, in favour of which there was a great weight of authority. In 1853 a Committee, which was presided over by the right hon. Gentleman now Secretary of State for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell), recommended "that provision should be made for the payment of costs in cases where the proceedings of any party shall appear to have been illusory, vexatious, or unwarrantable." Whenever the subject had been discussed the principle had been admitted, and the last Committee on railway matters had unanimously reported in favour of a measure of this kind. Last year he presented to the House a Bill, on the back of which was
 565 bond fide
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he wished to be guided in this matter by the feeling of the House. As to the proposed enlargement of the powers of the Committee, he could only say that he for one had no objection to it; but in framing his Bill he had been guided by a desire only to ask for that which would be likely to receive the assent of the House, and, moreover, by the feeling that as the Order of Reference to the Select Committee was confined to Railway Bills, he might seem to have travelled out of the record had he suggested any wider power of awarding costs. He did not think the measure could be charged with anything like a tendency to check railway enterprise; but railway and all other enterprises ought to be conducted in accordance with principles of justice. He trusted the Select Committee to whom the Bill was to be referred would net take evidence, because in that event the passing of the Bill must be indefinitely postponed. And in any case, as the House would reserve to itself the privilege of debating the Bill anew when it returned from the Select Committee, all that could be gained by the reference was a slight addition of authority. He thanked his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) for the suggestion which he had made, assured him it should have his best consideration, and returned
 576
 MR. DENMAN , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that it consisted of two parts, and that the object of the first part, contained in clause 2, was the same as that of the Bill which he introduced on the subject in 1860. That Bill passed through that House, and had received general approval, having been supported by the present Lord Chancellor, then one of the Law Officers in this House, and by Lords Brougham, Campbell, and Chelmsford in the House of Lords; but had been dropped on its return to that House, in consequence of an alteration which had been introduced in its progress through the other House, which seemed inconsistent with its spirit. That was a proviso that it should be discretionary with the judge in each particular case whether to allow or disallow the right to sum up the evidence. The object of this part of the Bill was to assimilate the practice in criminal cases to that which prevailed in civil cases; and to allow counsel, whether for the prosecution or the defence, to sum up the evidence. Another provision of the Bill had reference to the discrediting of witnesses by the party producing them. The clause would not allow a party to discredit his own witness by general evidence of bad character; but enable him, under certain circumstances, to offer evidence to prove that he has made at other times a statement inconsistent with his present testimony. Proof might also be given of contradictory statements of adverse witnesses under the same circumstances which render such statements admissible in civil cases. There was also a provision as to cross-examination with reference to a previous statement made in writing or reduced to writing, without requiring such writing in the first instance to be shown to him. He saw no reason why a difference should
 577 578 Vict. Vict.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he had read the Bill carefully, and believed it would be a very valuable piece of legislation so far as its spirit and principle were concerned. No one could have attended these Committees as counsel, or sat upon them as a Member of the House, without feeling that there was a vast amount of unreasonable and unnecessary litigation. But the Bill as it stood was, he thought, a little too large in its terms, as it gave a power to throw costs upon any party if unsuccessful; but want of success was no proof either of vexatious or unreasonable proceedings. If the hon. Member would alter the words so as to give power to the Committee to award costs whenever the scheme or the opposition was "unreasonable or vexatious" the Bill would then really meet the case he supposed the hon. Member had in view. He should therefore support the principle of the Bill by voting for the second reading; but in Committee it would, he thought, be desirable to alter the terms so as to define more accurately what was meant.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that the suggestion that had been thrown out by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had occurred to himself, but he had refrained from taking that course, fearing he should be met with the objection that it was a highly inconvenient mode of legislation to pass an Act of Parliament referring to another Act. In a court, or elsewhere, the other Act might be sent for, when it might be found not to contain what was wanted, and become necessary to refer back to another Act. The most convenient plan was to put down in black and white the alteration that it was intended to make, copying, if desirable, the clauses from the existing Acts.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that as he was a Member of the Committee appointed to consider this subject, he was prepared to avow his readiness to take his share of the responsibility of its recommendations. He had waited with anxiety to hear the opinion of the President of the Board of Trade, but he was astonished to hear several things which the right hon. Gentleman had uttered. It was impossible that any one who had ever sat upon one of these Committees, or who had attended as a spectator of their proceedings, could have failed to see the vices of the present system. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) said that the same measure was often brought forward three or four times in succession, and eventually succeeded; and he quoted that as showing that the present Bill was founded on a wrong principle. The right hon. Gentleman also referred to the formation of the Manchester and Liverpool Railway, and other railways in that district, and to the Committees before which their merits were canvassed; but that was going very far back—to a time, indeed, when some Members of the present House were not born. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to have forgotten that at the time to which he referred, Committees were very differently constituted. At that time, the Member bringing in the Bill named the Committee. Any other Member could then move that "all who come shall have voices," which opened the Committee to the Whole House; and he (Lord Hotham) remembered that when the vote on the Preamble of one of the Bills to which the right hon. Gentleman referred was taken, between fifty and sixty Members voted on each side. That was a time when railways were in their infancy, and when no one knew anything about them; and therefore he thought that if the right hon. Gentleman could offer no better arguments than such as were based upon what was done thirty years ago, there did not seem to be much ground for objecting to this Bill. The right hon. Gentleman had also spoken of the elasticity of the present system, in allowing a Bill to be brought forward three or four
 573 574
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  was of opinion that any words which it was deemed desirable to insert in the Bill might be adopted in Committee. The principal reason which, to his mind, showed the necessity of the Bill was that we were in a position in which Private Bills' Committees must either be strengthened or abandoned altogether. He thought they needed to be strengthened, and therefore he proposed that the power of giving costs should be vested in the Committees. He wished to avoid unnecessary delay, and the needless expenditure of the time of Parliament, and the money of capitalists. At present, a Committee was powerless to stop expenditure. If a Chairman expostulated with counsel on going into unnecessary detail, the reply was, that he was the best judge of his own case. If the promoters and opponents of a Bill knew that summary power was vested in the Committee to award costs, it would prevent many of the evils complained of, and great strength would be added to the Committee. He should give his cordial support to the Bill.
 MR. PUGH  said, that the Bill was an even-handed measure in this respect—that, as had been stated by his hon. Friend who introduced it, it dealt equal justice to both sides, and mulcted equally those who improperly opposed as well as those who improperly promoted railway projects. But he hoped that, in any legislation that might take place, care would be taken not to throw difficulties in the way of those who were engaged in introducing railways into those parts of the country that stood in great need of them. If they looked at a railway map they would observe that the heart of the country was covered with a network of railways, while other parts were still comparatively unprovided with them; although, as had been truly said, nearly £400,000,000 had been expended in rail-way construction. He would instance that part of the country with which he was most connected—Wales; also a great part of Devonshire, Cornwall, the West of Ireland, speaking generally, and the West of Scotland. There the railways are few and far between. It might be said there was a reason for this; that the districts to which he had alluded were less populous, less wealthy, and more distant from the great marts of commerce and manufactures. But if that were so, inasmuch as it was a matter of public policy, and of great importance, that every part of the country should be accessible by railways, so that the Empire might be con-
 567
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he did not object to the principle of the Bill, but thought its clauses required grave consideration. Proprietors of land ran sufficient risks already, without having the liability to pay costs superadded.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the Bill was a very admirable and curious specimen of British legislation. Under its provisions costs might be given at the discretion of Committees in the case of Railway Bills and none others. But if that power were given to Committees on railways, why not give it to Committees sitting upon all Private Bills? If they granted the power in the case of railways, they could not deny that it was right to give it to a Committee inquiring with reference to Water Bills. He suggested this consideration to the Home Secretary, in order that they might not be laughed at out of doors on account of their peddling and inconsistent legislation. When the Bill came into Committee he would press upon his hon. Friend (Mr. Scourfield) the substitution of the words "every Private Bill" for the words "every Railway Bill."
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, this Bill afforded an admirable specimen of English legislation. A rule had been established in civil cases which his hon. and learned Friend desired to extend to criminal cases; but instead of saying, in so many words, that all the rules of evidence now applicable in civil cases should in future be applicable to criminal cases, he felt it necessary to repeat every one of the clauses, thereby incumbering the statute-book with an unnecessary mass of verbiage. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Secre-
 579
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  said, he also was of opinion that the measure should be extended to all Private Bills; but he thought, at the same time, that the measure was too comprehensive, and that some limitation should be put on the power which it was proposed to give to Committees in that case. He could scarcely imagine that the promoters of a Bill would enter on an undertaking which was absolutely unfounded and vexatious; but if they should press a Bill which had been rejected in a preceding Session he would give the Committee, if they should be unanimous, the power of awarding costs. In the case of the opposition to a Bill he would invest the Committee with a similar power, if the opposition should be renewed in one House
 569
 MR. CRAWFORD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was very sorry that his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade should have thought it necessary to throw his personal and official weight into the scale against the Bill, for his speech was one against the Bill, although, in deference to the general opinion of the House, he had concluded his remarks by recommending that it should be sent to a Select Committee. It had been found by experience in all countries that it was expedient, in order to protect the time of courts and also the time and money of those who were obliged to vindicate their rights against others, to visit the unsuccessful party, under certain limitations, with the cost of the proceedings. His right hon. Friend, however, drew a distinction between what he called questions of law and matters of expediency, and seemed to think that it was quite proper that the unsuccessful litigant in our
 571 572
 MR. LOWE  said, it struck him that the suggestion, though very plausible, could not safely be acted upon. One of the results would be that, as in civil suits, all admissions given by the prisoner under any circumstances would be admissible against him.
 MR. TORRENS  hoped that the principle of the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for Haverfordwest (Mr. Scourfield) would be favourably received by the House, and would be passed into law with any alterations that might be required. But, at the same time, he regretted that it did not go further and contemplate giving Committees power to award costs in all Private Bills. He would take that opportunity of giving one instance out of many of hardship inflicted on opponents by promoters of Private Bills other than Railway Bills. Last Session a Bill was introduced by the Belfast Waterworks Commissioners for the better supply of water to that town. This water was to be taken from the streams which supplied the inhabitants of Carrickfergus, which town he represented, with water for agriculture, manufacturing, and domestic purposes. The Bill was opposed by the inhabitants of Carrickfergus, and in order to raise the money necessary for the opposition to this a rate was levied on the inhabitants and a considerable expenditure was incurred. The Bill was withdrawn. But the outlay incurred led to no good; for again this Session the people of Belfast sought by Private Bill legislation to deprive Carrickfergus of its supply of water, and a similar expense would be necessary to oppose it again. This was only one instance of what was daily occurring during the Session, and was referred to to show that great hardship and injustice could be inflicted by promoters by introducing Bills of other kinds than Railway Bills. As the Bill under consideration related to costs of Private Bills, he hoped it would not be out of place to express surprise that those Members who had to deal with the subject did not take the further reduction of costs in Private Bill legislation into consideration. He held in his hand a printed list of charges in Private Bill matters under the Act of 1847, and to show how easy it would be to reduce expenditure on this account he would refer, among others, to the charge
 568 d.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not think that question of costs had been carefully considered by any of the Committees. The Committee of 1863 had taken some evidence upon the subject; but on that evidence they had not thought fit to recommend any legislation, and they were, on the whole, adverse to the adoption of such a step. He did not think that any analogy could be drawn between the cases tried before the common law courts and those which were brought before Railway Committees. If a man failed in a common law court he must, in all probability, have been prosecuting an illegal claim. Besides, everybody knew or was presumed to know the laws of the land. That was a state of things which could hardly be said to prevail in the case of the promoters or the opposers of a Private Bill. Many of the projects for which the sanction of Parliament was demanded must at first have appeared more or less extravagant or illusory; but, as they became better known, and as the public requirements increased, they ultimately met with universal approval. The very earliest of all the great Railway Bills, the Liverpool and Manchester, was at first thrown out, and was only passed on a second application to Parliament. The London and Birmingham, and the Great Northern were also at first unsuccessful, and the Grand Junction from Birmingham to Liverpool and Manchester had to be brought several times before Parliament. In all these cases it would be manifestly unadvisable that these promoters should only have been able to make their second application for a Bill with the fear of costs before their eyes. It was also proposed by the measure that the opponent of a Bill should be subjected to the payment of costs if his opposition should be thought unfounded and vexatious; but he did not see why a landowner, for instance, should be liable to have costs thrown upon him if he unsuccessfully opposed a scheme which would interfere with his property. He thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for Carmarthenshire (Mr. Pugh) had said some very reasonable things on the subject, He said we must take care not to throw unnecessary obstacles in the way of the progress and extension of railways in districts where they do not now exist, or to prevent the undertaking of works which were for the public benefit. Those Bills to which he (Mr. Milner Gibson) had re-
 570
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General, if present, would have given his assent to the second reading of the Bill, and on the part of the Government he (Sir George Grey) now gave that assent. He thought it would prove a very useful measure. With the exception of one clause, which was different in its wording, he thought the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) might be acted upon by simply declaring that the enumerated sections of the Common Law Procedure Act should apply to criminal cases as well.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Question before the House was whether the Bill should be read a second time, and to that there did not seem to be any opposition. The House would then have to consider whether the Bill should be sent to a Select Committee, and the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill would, after the second reading was passed, have an opportunity of stating whether he consented to that course or not. It was impossible to deny that there might be cases, other than those of Railway Bills, where Committees might usefully award costs; then, as the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had said, why limit that power to Railway Bills? Now, that was a question that might be better considered in a Select Committee than in a Committee of the Whole House. There were other questions also to be considered, and he was struck with the observation of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Taunton that there were cases where the original promotion of or opposition to a Bill might be perfectly  bond fide, 575
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he did not know under what circumstances the Metropolitan Board had taken upon themselves the expense of this improvement; but everybody would admit the inconvenience and danger of the present state of Park Lane. There were other parties, however, who were to be considered beside the inhabitants of Hamilton Place—and these were the constituents of the Metropolitan Board. If this was to be taken as a precedent for the expenses of all improvements being thrown on that Board, and for this House having the duty forced upon it of judging what the expenses should be, he would advise the ratepayers of London to look sharply after their own interests. He had no great confidence in the Metropolitan Board of Works, but it must be presumed that they had well considered this Bill, and it would be a very strong measure indeed to refuse it a second reading. The hon. Baronet had quoted an authority, who said that the cost of widening Hamilton Place and extending it to Park Lane would be £60,000; but he had seen a statement that the expense of taking down Gloucester House would be £180,000, and that of the prolongation of South Audley Street upwards of £200,000. It would not be right to prevent the Bill going to a Committee, nor was it possible for the House properly to examine the details, the consideration of which was necessary to the formation of a sound judgment upon the questions which it involved.
 MR. MILLER,  as a Member of the Board of Works, said that many suggestions had been made to them on this subject, and they had fully considered the question of compensation. If there were any demand for compensation under the plan proposed, it arose from the fact that when the leases of the houses in Hamilton Place were granted, there was an understanding that the place should remain a  cul de sac.
 MR. COWPER,  having been so pointedly alluded to by the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Fergusson), wished to say a few words in reply. He felt very strongly that the existing state of Park Lane was a disgrace to all those in whose power it lay to provide a remedy. Park Lane was the only direct thoroughfare which lay between the north and south of the district which extended from Church Lane, Kensington on the west, to Berkeley Street on the east. The traffic which passed through it was to a great extent that of two great railways, which was forced through a passage not more than eighteen feet wide, so that two large vans were sufficient to block it up completely; while not more than three ordinary vehicles could occupy a parallel line. His opinion was that the best course to adopt with a view to remedy the inconvenience was to widen Park Lane; but the Metropolitan Board, who seemed to have only lately awakened
 595 596
 SIR JAMES PEEGUSSON,  after what he had just heard from the First Commissioner of Works, said he would not further oppose the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the bridge was nearly completed, and he hoped it would be opened to the public before the end of next month.
 MR. CLIFFORD  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether he has received a memorial from certain Cowes Trinity Pilots complaining of improper interference with their avocation by Government Pilots; and whether he will issue orders to prevent the recurrence of such interference?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : In regard to the first part of the Question, I have to answer my hon. Friend, that the clause he refers to is not repealed, though the stringency of the penalty has been considerably relaxed. In regard to the latter part of the Question, I beg to say that I do not propose to introduce any measure on the subject.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  hoped that the hon. Baronet would not persevere in offering opposition to the progress of this measure, which was the result of as much deliberation as had ever been given to any measure with which he was acquainted. It was discouraging to those who had charge of it that three times over they should be required to make the same explanation to the House. The hon. Baronet complained that sufficient information had not been given with regard to the principal fund mentioned in the preamble, and upon which they proposed to go for one million of the money. Now, if ever there was a subject completely exhausted by inquiry and by the information which had been afforded, it was the history, nature, liabilities, and amount of that fund. The Commission of 1860 investigated the subject, not for the first time, and examined all the dealings of Parliament respecting it; and the existence of that fund, with the maximum amount of the charges to which it was liable, was as certain as the existence of the National Debt. A clear explanation had been given as to the mode in which the fund would be made available. It was true that there was a large amount of annual charge upon the million of stock; but there was another fund of £500,000 more which stood in exactly the same position, and which the Government did not profess to touch for the purpose of this building, but which they did
 605
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it had not, but he had stated on a former occasion that he would be prepared to give the exact details of the calculation. Even without such an estimate, however, hon. Members could satisfy themselves, as he had, that the £500,000 would be enough to answer this charge of £50,000, because, reckoning the deficiency of income at £30,000 a year, and assuming the truth of the calculation that these annuities would run out in eighteen years, there would remain a surplus of not less than £150.000. As to the estimate of £200,000 for the value of public sites now occupied by courts of justice and offices, or for which the public paid rent, that estimate was within the mark. These sites were:—1. The courts and offices at Westminster. 2. Offices (rented) for the Common Law Courts. 3. Offices at Doctors' Commons attached to the Court of Probate and Divorce. 4. Offices in Doctors' Commons for Registry of Court of Admiralty. 5. Offices in Southampton Buildings (formerly the Masters' Offices, now used for Patent business and for Registrars). 6. Offices, &c, of the Rolls Court and Examiners, and Petty Bag Office in Rolls estate, &c. 7. Common Law Judges' Chambers. 8. Insolvent Debtors' Court (new Land Registry Office) in Portugal Street. 9. Registries of Deeds by Married Women and of Joint-stock Companies. The enumeration of these sites would satisfy hon. Members that the sum of £200,000 was a moderate one. It was proposed to charge the fees so as to affect the suitors as lightly as possible; and it was ascertained by the pub-
 606 s. d. s. d. d,
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that important object would be kept in view, and he thought that the words of the clause were sufficient to enable what the hon. and learned Gentleman suggested to be done.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  moved the following New Clause:—
 "The plan upon which the said buildings shall be erected, and the necessary arrangements for the proper and convenient accommodation of all the courts and offices to be provided for therein, shall be determined upon by the Treasury, with the advice and concurrence of such persons as Her Majesty shall think fit to authorize in that behalf; and after the completion of the said buildings Her Majesty may*by Order in Council, from time to time nominate and appoint such persons as She shall think fit, with such powers to superintend and regulate the said buildings, and to provide for the proper care and maintenance thereof,
 607
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  explained that the clause did not authorize the Treasury to spend money, but provided that the persons who should have the care of the building should not have power to make any order without the consent of the Treasury. If the Treasury consented to any order involving an expenditure of money, they would have to apply to Parliament for the funds in the usual manner.
 MR. COWPER  said, that by the Bill only so much of the site was taken as was absolutely necessary for the building. It
 608
 MR. WHITE  said, he thought piecemeal legislation on this question altogether inexpedient. The time had arrived when they ought to address themselves to a full inquiry into the Banking Acts affecting not only England, but Ireland and Scotland. He quite admitted that the 5th clause of the proposed Bill dealt with a real grievance; that the restriction on the number of partners, in the case of banks of issue, was a premium on unsoundness, and that the prohibition from having a house in London or within sixty-five miles was a piece of exceptional legislation which should be removed; but after the declaration of the Chancellor of the Exchequer last year that the whole question should engage the early attention of the Government and the House, he thought they should postpone legislation to a more fitting period, or rather till a full inquiry had taken place into the operation of the Bank Acts of England, Ireland, and Scotland. When he said this, he was quite aware that the present Parliament was so near the term of its legal duration that it would not be expedient that a Committee of that House should be appointed. And, indeed, with all respect for that House, he was scarcely of opinion that a Select Committee of that House was the best body for conducting the inquiry. He should prefer that a Royal Commission should be appointed, and he thought there would be a peculiar fitness in issuing a Commission of Inquiry now, seeing that the Government of France had just appointed a Commission to. inquire into the same subject. He could assure the Chancellor of the Exchequer that there was a popular belief that the operation of the Currency Act tended to make the rich richer and the poor poorer. When the last Committee sat there was but a partial inquiry, but he would read the following extract from the Report of that Committee:—
 "Without entering into any question respecting the issue of small notes on the credit of the State, the Committee desire it to be understood as their opinion that the subject of the
 614 615 616
 MR. T. BARING  agreed and disagreed with much that had been said on both sides. He did not agree with his hon. and learned Friend below that money should be furnished to everybody who wanted it, nor did he agree with the opinion expressed by his hon. Friend opposite as to the fluctuations in the value of money. His hon. Friend said it was right that the interest of money should vary like the price of any other commodity, but the rise and fall in the value of money regulated the value of every other commodity. There was nothing so important for a commercial community as to have the rate of interest permanent and stable, because upon that people could only base their calculations. A variation in the rate of what his hon. Friend called loanable capital was different from a variation in any other commodity. A variation in the price of cotton did not affect other articles, but the value of money acted upon every other commodity. He confessed that he did not believe the Act of 1844 to be perfect, for nothing human was perfect. At the same time, he should be sorry to see in an Act of this kind changes made which you could not base upon previous experience or adopt
 632
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  moved, for leave to bring in a Bill to alter and amend the system of registration of writs relative to land in Scotland. The hon. and learned Lord said the Bill was similar to one he had introduced last year, and its object was to substitute one general register for the double registration now required. He understood that an hon. Friend intended to propose a measure whereby the county registers would be the sole registers. That would fairly raise the question, and upon it the point at issue could be discussed.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  presumed the hon. Gentleman alluded to the complaint made by the Cowes Pilots that they had not been allowed to pilot the Turkish squadron. The complaint had been received by the Board of Admiralty, and referred to the authorities at Portsmouth for verification, and it would then be laid before the Trinity House to ascertain what were the regulations.
 MR. AYRTON  called attention to the Act of 1848, and to the procedure under it, by which, if any mistake were made in complying with the numerous provisions of the Act, the whole proceedings upon an election petition became void. This was analogous to the practice of our law courts 400 or 500 years ago, when, if at any stage of his case a mistake were made, the suitor had to bring a new action. Why should not the procedure upon an election petition be amended as our legal procedure had been, and liberty be given to amend in case of any technical error? Some years ago a petition failed in consequence of an error in the form of the recognizances, and then a Bill was brought in to cure the defect in the Act of Parliament.
 633
 MR. BLACK  asked the Lord Advocate,
 600 Vict., Viet,
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he should take an early opportunity of asking leave to bring in a Bill to make the county register the sole register of writs relating to land.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the hon. Member had moved for papers relating to these two cases, and they would very shortly be laid on the table of the House, but he was enabled to answer a great portion of the questions at once. The attention of the Poor Law Board had been drawn to this particular case, and he was able to tell the hon. Gentleman, as the cases involved some harshness and inhumanity to some poor persons, that it arose from violation of the law, and not from defect of the law. The House was aware that of late years there had been an earnest wish on the part of the Legislature to mitigate the hardships attending the removal of the Irish poor, and that there had been several Amendments of the law for that purpose. The law a short time since enabled overseers of any parish in England to deport Irish paupers to the shores of Ireland and there deposit them. In 1862 the law was altered, and the overseer was obliged to convey the pauper to the union house nearest the place of destination, and to be liable for the expense of conveying him to that destination. This was not found to answer; and, in 1863, it was enacted that the paupers should be conveyed under the charge of some efficient person, who if he neglected to do so was liable to a penalty of £10, or six months' imprisonment. The particular cases in question arose in consequence of the parochial authorities having neglected to observe the last enactment, and thinking they satisfied the law by removing them to the coast. There was more than one violation of the law, because it was provided that women and children should not be deck passengers in the winter. In this case a woman and child were placed on deck, in December, to be taken to the city of Cork, though their destination was beyond it, and the relieving officer gave the woman an adequate sum to convey her onward. She was conveyed to Cork. When the authorities of Cork saw that her destination was Killarney they sent her
 598
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, with regard to the position of the Company, they were carrying on their works. The sum which they had raised was about £790,000, and the sum spent about £717,000. He understood that about the month of July next, there would be 10,000 acres under irrigation. Though he had never entertained any extravagant expectations with
 599
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the real turning point in the case had never yet been touched. Neither his hon. Friend who moved the rejection of the Bill, nor any subsequent speaker had gone to the real question in the case. It turned upon one point. He was not going into the question whether it was wise legislation to seize the property of private individuals. That was not the point. The whole question was, whether the House would or would not, for the convenience of the pockets of the Metropolitan Board of Works, sanction a deliberate invasion of private property. If so—and that it was so there was the admission of the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite)—no man's property would be safe.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he would not enter into a consideration of the Bank Act of 1844, because that would lead to an interminable discussion. But in reply to his hon. Friend the Member for Wallingford, he would observe that his hon. Friend had held it to be the duty of the State to provide a sufficient quantity of useable money. But it was plain that by useable money his hon. Friend meant money that somebody wanted to borrow. The State, therefore, according to his hon. Friend, was to supply all the money which anybody wanted to borrow. But he would put it to the serious consideration of hon. Members whether this was not a monstrous proposition. Any two men might sit down in a room and draw half a million sterling in bills, and then his hon. Friend said it was a great hardship if they could not get ready money for them. His hon. Friend failed to draw the necessary distinction between money and capital. Now, the circulating medium was the only thing with which the Government had anything to do. It was monstrous to suppose that the State was to supply capital. His hon. Friend had talked of the numerous fluctuations in the rate of discount. His (Mr. Goschen's) wonder was that the fluctuations were not even greater than they were. The fact was that the rate of discount depended solely on the demand for loanable capital. If the number of borrowers exceeded the number of lenders, the rate of interest rose; if it was less, the rate fell. The fluctuations were not in the circulating medium, but in the value of loanable capital. It was a mistake to suppose that with that state of things the State had anything to do; and he regretted to hear an hon. Member of position in the House affirm that the effect of the Act was to make the rich richer, and the poor man poorer. It would be a public misfortune if small, traders who could not go deeply into these matters should get an impression that the Act had that tendency. There were difficulties in the question, no doubt; but he thought it was a fundamental principle that the price of an article must depend upon the laws of demand and supply. The principle of free trade was to give the greatest freedom to the means of supply. The Bank of England had no more power to control the rate of discount than any other establishment. If it asked too high a rate it would, of course, lose its business. What the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to be asking for was that what was scarce should be made cheap.
 631
 MR. HUBBARD  was ready to admit that it was impossible during the present Session to appoint a Committee to investigate the operation of the currency laws. But when he found Gentlemen from the north, and gentlemen from the south, united in their opposition to the present currency law, yet widely differing from one another, he could not but feel that it would be desirable that the question should be fully discussed. He trusted that the subject would be thoroughly investigated in the ensuing Session, and that the hon. Members for Glasgow and Brighton would find seats in the next Parliament, and thus have an opportunity of testing their opinions and reconciling their differences. The hon. Member for Glasgow had uttered a dogma with which he entirely agreed— namely, that there was nothing more important than to determine whether it was right or not to tax private bank issues. Upon whom was the assumed tax supposed to fall. He thought it was levied upon the noteholders; and, if so, the tax of  £2 5s. 623 624 625
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, the fact was that matters in Park Lane had come to a dead lock, and if the character of the traffic were examined it would be seen that the most dangerous portion of it was composed of very heavily-laden waggons, which came and went in the direction of the Great Western Railway. His own opinion was, that a road ought to be carried across Hyde Park to the Serpentine. By this means Park Lane would be relieved more
 594
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  asked the First Commissioner of Works, When the new Bridge leading to the Regent's Park, over the Canal, will be completed and opened to the public?
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the treatment of persons confined in Newgate: Whether it is true that all persons apprehended in the City of London on suspicion of any offence are (regardless of their antecedents) lodged in Newgate Gaol and treated as criminals: Whether such persons have to clean out their own cells, and whether they are deprived of proper sleeping accommodation and a proper knife with which to eat their food: Whether all persons remanded on suspicion are prohibited from seeing their wives and children, except through a double iron grating, and in the presence of a gaoler: Whether persons so treated and ultimately acquitted or discharged have any and what redress: And, whether persons charged with less serious offences are treated the same as persons charged with murder?
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether his attention has been drawn to the acts of illegality brought home to the paid officers of the Greenwich Union in connection with the
 597
 MR. SMOLLETT  asked the Secretary for India, What is the present position of the Madras Irrigation Company, and what is the amount expended in irrigation works up to the last account received from India. And, whether any prospect existed of the repayment of the interest guaranteed upon the capital of the Company, or of a participation by Government in the enormous profits which it was said that works undertaken by the State invariably produced in every district of the Madras Presidency?
 MR. MALINS  concurred in the observation of the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) that all money—all gold, silver, and copper—ought to be issued by the State; and, on the same principle, he
 627 628 2½ 629 The Times
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that he agreed in much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. He concurred in the main principle of the Bill. Entirely excluding the issue of paper money, there were difficulties affecting those who carried on the trade of joint-stock banks; and he thought that, as far as possible, all those difficulties ought to be removed. But he could not see why a measure for their removal should be accompanied by a provision continuing what he regarded as a mischief for a period
 626 locus standi
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise now to remove a misapprehension from the mind of the hon. Member for Glasgow. He says that last year I, as well as some other Members, and in particular a Gentleman of high authority on such matters—the Governor of the Bank of England, whose absence to-night we all regret—expressed the opinion that it would be desirable for Parliament, at a period which was approaching, to revise the Acts of 1844 and 1845, with a view to the further development of some of their provisions. My hon. Friend says these words excited an expectation in Scotland that the Government would this year propose to legislate on the currency. Now, in the first place, my words, as they are reported, contain no reference whatever to the present year. In the second place, what I said was not construed at the time by any hon. Member as having reference to the present year, and if such a construction had been put on them I should at once have pointed out, what must be obvious to all, that there could not possibly be a worse season for legislating on the currency than the last Session of an expiring Parliament. That being the case, it is plain that the present Bill is not the fulfilment of any supposed pledge made by me last year. The present Bill arose out of a proposal essentially practical. Certain parties, being in possession of a portion of the privilege of issue, proposed, that upon placing their issue on terms more favourable to the State, and agreeing to hold it for a limited instead of, as at present, an indefinite period, they should be released from certain restrictions upon their business. My hon. Friend the Member for St. Ives (Mr. Paull), who communicated with me on the government of the National and Provincial Bank,
 617 618 619 620 621 622
 MR. BUCHANAN  said: The present Bill contemplates no object of sufficient importance to compensate for the disappointment that will be felt, when it is known it is all that is to be expected as a substitute for a larger measure of banking reform. It may have been a mistake; and, if so, I do not wish to attach undue importance to it, but certainly, in the discussion on Scotch banks last Session, it was understood to have been announced by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the banking system of England would be reconsidered and amended, preliminary to similar measures applicable to Scotland and Ireland. Since that announcement was made, much interest has been excited in various quarters, and particularly in the burgh which I have the honour to represent. It was seen that no beneficial change in the banking of Scotland could be made, except in conformity with any change of law and system to be adopted in England. Hence the whole policy of the Acts of 1844 and 1845 have been keenly canvassed, and more especially the important question has been raised— should there be one bank only invested with the exclusive privilege of issue, or should there be various competing banks? It is a disappointment, and will be felt as such in many quarters, that, instead of a comprehensive measure, this small, and in some respects, objectionable Bill, has been introduced. No doubt it provides a remedy for restrictions and disabilities under which
 609 610 611 612 "That it is expedient to inquire into the working and effect of the 7 & 8  Vict. c Vict.
 MR. BAXTER  did not rise for the purpose of discussing the various provisions of this Bill, but rather to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He certainly understood the right hon. Gentleman last year to say that he would be prepared this Session to bring forward a comprehensive measure, or, at all events, to enter on an investigation of a comprehensive character. The hon. Baronet opposite could not have forgotten the speech delivered by the right hon. Gentleman on the second reading of the Bill introduced by him (Sir John Hay). They were then told that the whole system of the law with respect to banking required consideration and amendment, and that the right hon. Gentleman objected to that Bill on the ground that it legislated for Scotland before there had been any legislation for England or the United Kingdom; and that the time was fast approaching when the attention of Parliament would necessarily be directed to this important subject. The right hon. Gentleman concluded his speech in these words—
 "The time must come when it will be necessary for the Government to propose the adoption of some well-considered scheme for the further development and advancement of several of the provisions of the Acts of 1844 and 1845." 613
 MR. FERRAND  inquired, Whether the Government intended, during the present
 601
 MR. TITE  said, he did not wish to enter into a discussion of estimates, which he admitted were matters of considerable uncertainty; but the hon. Baronet had admitted the necessity which existed for some improvement of Park Lane, and he (Mr. Tite) appealed to the plain sense of the House, whether it was not obvious that the alteration of Hamilton Place with its six houses on one side and two on the other must be a cheaper operation than if they took the line of South Audley Street, and pulled down some of the finest houses in Piccadilly, or whether Hamilton Place would cost as much as Gloucester House. Four plans had been suggested for meeting the evil which the Bill sought to remedy. One was that the Chief Commissioner of works should, with the authority of the Crown, permit carriages to pass through the Park, thus getting
 592 593 s. locus standi
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, it was true that he introduced the Bill in consequence of a technical error which occurred in the case of the Lisburn Election Petition last Session. But his Bill went somewhat farther than that case, for it gave power to revive a Committee or to appoint a new one. The Bill had the approval of the Law Officers of the Crown, and he must proceed with it.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING   reported
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no complaint had been made to him with respect to the treatment of prisoners in Newgate. Persons committed for trial or upon remand were treated as prisoners, but not as persons convicted of crime. For instance, they were permitted to have their food daily sent to them by their friends; but they were subject to the ordinary prison regulations, had to clean out their cells, and were not allowed any instruments by which damage might be done to themselves or others. He had been informed that they were provided with suitable and proper bedding both for summer and winter, and, though they only saw their friends through the double grating and in presence of one of the officers of the prison, that rule did not apply to interviews with their legal advisers. With regard to the latter part of the Question, he should say if any illegal act were done, the prisoners would be entitled to redress, not otherwise. Persons committed on a charge of murder were placed under special supervision not applicable to other prisoners.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the draft of a Bill had been prepared containing clauses, which, if expedient, might be inserted in all Private Bills relating to the construction of reservoirs. This was a matter rather within the province of the Board of Trade, and he had accordingly referred the matter to his right hon. Friend, and the Bill was at present under his consideration.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the necessity of having some information on which to ground this very important measure. He did not mean to say that the House had not received some such information in the eloquent speeches of the Attorney General, but it appeared to him, with respect to the financial portion of the question, that some statement was required from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and also that some documents ought to be laid on the table for the purpose of showing that the funds alluded to in the preamble of the Bill were forthcoming. The House should bear in mind that the expenditure would commence by Votes of money to be provided by Parliament, and some future House would have to vote very considerable sums on account of the proposed expenditure. In the year 1862 the Chancellor of the Exchequer made some observations which ought to have great weight with the House. The right hon. Gentleman made a distinction between this sort of application for money and the ordinary applications for money for the army, navy, and miscellaneous Estimates; and he said that the latter Estimates were produced on the responsibility of the Government, but that in questions of this kind the responsibility rested on the House of Commons. With that opinion he entirely agreed, and he therefore invited the House to consider whether they were justified in passing the preamble of this Bill, or in allowing it to go into Committee until there was sufficient evidence on the table to sustain the statements set forth in that preamble. As to
 602 603 s, Vict., 604
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked, whether this document had been laid on the table.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked, whether the Treasury was to have power to spend money upon these courts without coming to Parliament?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  rose to ask for some explanation from the representatives of the Metropolitan Board of Works and from the Chief Commissioner of Works with respect to this scheme. The evil to be met by this measure was one of so long standing and such great magnitude, and was so generally admitted, that any change proposed ought to be of the most comprehensive and effective description. He contended, therefore, that this Bill ought to be considered in the Whole House on its merits and ought not to be sent to a Select Committee in the ordinary course, because such a tribunal would be precluded from considering the merits of rival schemes, and confined to the investigation of that which was presented to them by the promoters, the alteration of Hamilton Place and its connection with Park Lane. It was only by implication that other plans could come before it. Now, there were not wanting gentlemen of great experience who said that this scheme was not the best
 590 591
 MR. ROLT  said, that although this measure had not been much discussed in the House, its provisions had been very carefully considered by those who were interested in the question out of doors. A proof of that was to be found in the part of the present clause which provided for the establishment of a Commission to superintend and regulate the new buildings. The Society of the Temple, of which he was a member, suggested, in a petition which they presented to the House, the necessity for such a provision, and although this clause had not been framed exactly in the form which they recommended, he admitted they could not ask for more.
 MR. ROLT  said, he wished to draw attention to the necessity of providing some access from the Temple to the new courts', without persons being obliged to cross the crowded thoroughfares of Fleet Street and the Strand. He had no doubt it was the intention of the Government to give such access, and if so he hoped that words would be introduced into the clause for that purpose.
 MR. ROLT  said, he thought it would be right to insert some words meeting the difficulty to which he had alluded, and recognizing the necessity of forming means of access to the courts when constructed, as a part of the scheme. In that view he should give notice of an Amendment which would have the effect of providing suitable access from the Temple to the new courts.
 MR. JACKSON  remarked, that in 1859 he presided over a Committee in which it was recommended that a measure resembling the Bill now before the House should be introduced; and Sir Benjamin Hall introduced a Bill to carry the project into execution. It was, therefore, not a new measure. It had been before the House for ten years, and it was one that in his opinion ought to be carried out.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he felt very strongly the objection urged against the Bill on the ground that it proposed to introduce a law for Liverpool different from that which prevailed elsewhere. In the position, however, in which Liverpool was placed, its inhabitants had only a choice of difficulties. He should support the second reading of the Bill on two grounds—first, because it was supported by a very large majority of all classes within the town itself; and secondly, because he knew enough of this question to feel that it was impossible things could go on there in the way in which they had been doing for the last few years. They had, in fact, come to a dead lock. There was one party-he believed a majority—among the magistracy which held that all licences ought to be granted or withheld without reference to anything but the character of the person applying. There was, however, a considerable minority holding a contrary opinion; and accordingly when a licensing session was held it was mere chance whether the principle of restriction or that of free trade was acted on. Both sides were in earnest—neither would give way. He had known cases where appeals were rejected upon one day by a majority of magistrates who were in favour of the principle of restriction, and on the very next day, the majority being the other way, every appeal was
 652 primâ facie
 MR. PACKE  said, this was the first instance in his recollection in which it was sought to pass as a Private Bill a measure affecting the public interests of an entire community.
 MR. BERKELEY  asked the Home Secretary, Whether it is the intention of the Government to bring forward, this Session, any stringent and decisive measure for the prevention of corruption and the protection of Electors at Parliamentary Elections?
 MR. BERKELEY  gave notice that he should, in that case, propose a Resolution for the purpose of giving protection to voters at Parliamentary Elections in the shape of a Ballot Bill.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Question was one of considerable importance, the object being to determine whether the Government would execute at the public cost works in the Shannon which would prevent the river from overflowing. It was contended that it was the duty of the Government to execute those works in consequence of the works executed for improving the navigation some twenty years ago not having succeeded in preventing the flooding of the river. Although the Shannon Commissioners had made a series of Reports between the years 1840 and 1848, and they had Mr. Bateman's report showing at what cost the works could be executed, the Government were still without information on this important point—what would be the improvement to the land of private owners, supposing that the overflowing were prevented. He (Mr. Peel) hoped in the course of a fortnight to be able to state what course the Treasury would take on this subject.
 MR. CARDWBLL  said, the Question might more properly be addressed to his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, but he was ready to answer it. The regulations in question bore date December 17. They were issued, no doubt, in view of the alarm in America at the measures taken by the enemies of the United States on the Canadian frontier. These regulations had entailed great inconvenience both on the citizens of the United States and on the subjects of Her Majesty. Her Majesty's Government hoped that when the mischief ceased the remedy which had been applied would cease also. No official representations had yet been made, as it had not yet been thought expedient to make them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OR THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not rise for the purpose of traversing the very extended field that appears to be opened to the notice of the House by the Motion—not in the form in which the hon. Gentleman has brought it before us, but in the terms in which he originally gave notice of his intention to raise the question; but I will venture to
 675 676 677 bonâ fide 678 679 680 681 682 "As regards what may be called reproductive expenditure, somewhat different considerations apply. It may be desirable to advance public money to promote the improvement of particular districts, in order to render those districts ultitimately more capable of adding to the national wealth. A good deal has already been done in this way for Ireland. It appears from a table in the Appendix to this Report that between 1817 and 1863 advances to the amount of £13,959,125 had been made for public works in Great Britain, of which sum £7,658,602 principal and £3,205,286 interest had been repaid. In the same period, £26,292,867 had been advanced for public works in Ireland, of which sum only £12,247,299, principal and interest together, had been repaid. These sums are, as your Committee understand, distinct from the grants which have at various times been made to Ireland." 683 "Your Committee do not, however, see reason for objecting to this expenditure. On the contrary, they are of opinion that any measures which can safely be taken for furthering such advances will be desirable. Their attention has been called to the system upon which loans are now made for the purposes of drainage, and to the further facilities which are said to be desired. Drainage being the improvement of which Ireland chiefly stands in need, your Committee recommend this question to the favourable consideration of the Government." 684
 MR. DAWSON  observed, that questions of such scope and importance had been raised in this debate that it became the duty of Irish Members to offer their opinions upon them. He—a resident in Ireland—did not, like the hon. Members to whom they had just listened, despair altogether of the regeneration of the country. He did not think the present condition of Ireland entirely satisfactory, and considered the troubles of that country were a cause for great anxiety and deep consideration, but at the same time he did not regard them as arising from any errors of Government, but rather from a number of adverse circumstances caused by a series of unfortunate seasons. Last year, although, perhaps, an improvement upon other years, was still not very favourable, the summer being too dry, and the autumn being too wet made it bad harvesting weather. Great stress has been laid in previous debates on the increased breadth of land sown with flax, and in his own district—Londonderry—33,000 acres were sown with this crop last year. Owing to the inferior quality of the produce, and to the buyers combining to keep down the prices, a large quantity had remained unsold, although the poorer growers had been compelled to dispose of their produce at an unremunerative rate, though it was largely imported at the time into the harbour of Belfast. He was not so much pleased with this extension of the culture, as he was afraid that the poorer classes would neglect all other crops for flax, which although more remunerative for a time, was the most exhausting to the land that could be grown. The extension of flax cultivation promised to be beneficial to the small farmers, and the climate was favourable to its proper cultivation, especially in the north. Several districts of Ireland laboured under excessive disadvantages, engendered
 688 689
 COLONEL DUNNE  believed that there was not a man of the whole Irish nation that had not felt the utmost surprise when it was announced in the Speech from the
 691 692 d. s. d. s. s. d. 693 694 695 696
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Admiralty had fully considered the merits of Captain Sayer's lifeboat, which was undoubtedly a very ingenious invention, and might possibly be hereafter useful in time of war; but it was not thought necessary at present to proceed with any further experiments.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Ever since the right hon. Baronet has filled the office which he has occupied with so much edification, and I am bound to say also with so much amusement, to the House—ever since, I say the right hon. Gentleman has given the House the pleasure of his services in that post—I have observed that every year we have had a somewhat animated conflict between him and the Irish Members, and the plan of the conflict has always been this:—The Irish Members have come to the House and have said,—"Our constituents are starving. We have the testimony of the priests, who know the people, that they are starving. We live among our constituents ourselves, and we know their distress." On the other hand, the Chief Secretary has replied, "I assure you, my hon. Friends, that you are entirely wrong, and that if the people of Ireland think they are starving they make the greatest mistake in the world. I have been sitting in my office and studying columns of figures, and I can assure you that the Irish people, whatever their stomachs may seem to represent to them, really are not starving. The hon. Members for Queen's County and Clonmel may talk of the distress of their constituents, but I have been in Dublin Bay, I have been corresponding with the fishermen, and I know that the fisheries in Dublin Bay are first-rate; and as long as the fisheries in Dublin Bay are first-rate Queen's County and Clonmel cannot starve. "I am going to do a very bold thing. In the few observations which I shall address to the House I intend to assume that when the Irish people believe the testimony of their stomachs, and disbelieve the testimony of the Chief Secretary's figures they are right and he is wrong. I am bound, however, to say that although he spoke in a confident tone I suspect that a suspicion of the truth crossed the mind of the right hon. Gentleman, because after a short and mysterious communication with the more practised wisdom of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, just towards the close of his speech he addressed to us a kind of appeal that if his sanguine hopes as to the prosperous condition of the Irish people were an illusion, at all events we should not dispel that delusion. Now, I confess that I wish for Ireland something better than the Barmecide's feast to which
 718 719 720 721 "The House would recollect that from the Revolution to a period within the memory of every man who heard him, the system had been that of debarring Ireland from the enjoyment and use of her own resources; to make the kingdom completely subservient to the interests and opulence of this country, without suffering her to share in the bounties of nature, in the industry of her citizens, or making them contribute to the general interests and strength of the empire. This system of cruel and abominable restraint had, however, been exploded. It was at once harsh and unjust, and it was as impolitic as it was oppressive; for, however, necessary it might be to the partial benefit of districts in Britain, it promoted not the real prosperity and strength of the empire. That which had been the system, counteracted the kindness of Providence, and suspended the industry and the enterprise of man. Ireland was put under such restraint that she was shut out from every species of commerce; she was restrained from sending the produce of her own soil to foreign markets; and all correspondence with the colonies of Britain was prohibited to her, so that she could not derive their commodities but through the medium of Britain."—[ Hansard, Parl. History, 722
 MR. AYRTON  said, the reasons assigned by the noble Lord were valid reasons for making changes in the commission of the peace in Liverpool, but not for passing or rejecting the Bill. As an appeal had been made to the Speaker for his opinion, he should like to put before him this view also. This was a Bill affecting the Ways and Means of the year, for it proposed to alter the revenue payable into the Exchequer, and to impose a new tax on certain persons in Liverpool, raising their contributions from £3 14*. to £30. Now, he should like to know whether a Bill of this nature could be brought in by private Members? If so our finances would be in a very extraordinary position, because every Member would have a right to introduce measures affecting the taxation of the boroughs they represented. Now, whatever might be the ruling on the point of practice, the
 653
 MR. LAYARD  said, with regard to the first part of the hon. Gentleman's question, Her Majesty's Government had received information that the Government of the Emperor of the French had been requested to mediate between the Governments of Monte Video and Brazil. No such request had been made of Her Majesty's Government. With regard to the third part of the question, Her Majesty's Government had been informed that the city of Paysandu, after a gallant resistance, had fallen into the hands of the combined armies; that
 659
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that having supported the object of the hon. Members for Liverpool last Session, he regretted
 651
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he did not intend at present to propose any legislation on the subject. He had, indeed, received a request from the Chairman of the Commission appointed to inquire into the condition of the people working in metal mines, requesting that he (Mr. C. P. Villiers) would propose no legislation on the subject until the information to be contained in their Report was before the House. There was perhaps less necessity for haste in legislation on this matter, as he understood that since the passing of the Union Assessment Act there bad arisen so much dissatisfaction at the early decision that had rendered mines and timber exempt from rates, that it was not unlikely that the question would be brought again before the Courts. The exemption did not exist either in Scotland or Ireland. He did not see why collieries should be rated and other mines exempted.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that two Despatches had been received in the course of last year regarding the works proposed for opening up the navigation of the river Godavery, and he should have no objection to lay them upon the table of the House. With reference to the second part of the hon. Gentleman's question, he might state that four steamers were at all times maintained and employed on the Godavery for the purpose of carrying stores up and down the river.
 COLONEL FRENCH  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, When he will be prepared to state what steps Government mean to take in consequence of Mr. Bateman's Report of the River Shannon?
 COLONEL FRENCH,  in seconding the Motion, said he felt deeply grateful to his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for the boldness and manliness with which he had avowed the opinions which had that night been quoted. With regard to that magnificent river, the Shannon, some thirty years ago a Commission reported that £600,000 would be required, not only to carry out the improvement of its navigation, but to deepen it so as to admit the drainage of the ten counties through which it passed. In 1835 an Act was brought in for the execution of these works, one-half of the cost to be defrayed by public grant, and the other half to be defrayed by tolls. In case the tolls were not sufficient, a levy was to be made on the adjoining counties. Under these circumstances the Commissioners proceeded to act. Plans and sections were laid on the table; and the first step it might have been thought would have been to advertize for contracts. But no—the Commissioners not only planned the works and prepared estimates, but undertook to execute them. Had there been contractors, proceedings might have been taken against them for non-execution. But the Commissioners did not even execute the works; they altered their plans and made themselves judges as to how they were executed. The works completed and everything sought for obtained, now they said they must proceed to deal with repayments. They made allotments, and £300,000 was levied on the adjacent counties. The county he represented paid in principal and interest £100,000, and, instead of improvements, they had unfinished works. After repeated solicitation, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had sent a hydraulic engineer of eminence, Mr. Bateman, to examine the works. He went over the works, made a
 674
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that the objection taken by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) as to the public revenue was answered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had no doubt truly said the Committee would have no power to consider the clause printed in italics, and that this must be submitted to the House. But that clause was the main foundation of the Bill. In the reasons given by the promoters of the Bill, the addition to the public revenue by the high duties imposed was the very ground on which they rested their claims; and was the House to send this Bill to a Committee of four Gentlemen who were to have no power to discuss the foundation of the Bill? When the Bill came down again, of course the whole discussion must be renewed. The principle of this measure had been fully discussed on a
 657
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that one of the complaints urged by hon. Members connected with the sister country was that Englishmen took no interest in Irish questions. Now, he must be exempted from that charge, for he was for many years connected with Ireland by the ties of property; and for forty years he had visited one part or another of the country. There were one or two remarkable circumstances connected with the present discussion. An admission had been made by more than one Irish Member that the great cause of the poverty and distress of that country had arisen from what was commonly called free trade. He believed that opinion to be perfectly correct. But, if he had made an assertion of that kind, he should have been accused of raising the ghost of Protection. He remembered that when the questions of free trade and protection were under discussion it was said that the late Mr. O'Connell foresaw the difficulty, and that he so fully anticipated what would be the effect of what was called free trade, more particularly in the south and west of Ireland, that he paused for some considerable time before he made up his mind to throw the seventy votes which were at his command into the scale of free trade. He, however, did so, and the motive imputed to him at the time was, that the effect of free trade in Ireland would be to ruin the great majority of the landowners, and in furtherance of that object he was willing to risk the ruin of the cultivators of the soil. He believed that the subtraction of £5,000,000 a year derived by Ireland from the monopoly of the English corn market, had been the chief cause of the distressed
 700 701 702
 MR. LYALL  asked the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he would bring in a Bill this Session for the rating of all Mines and Timber?
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that the Government need be under no apprehension that they would be suspected of acting in any friendly way towards Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman had alluded to the assessed taxes, but he forgot to point out that the remission of these constituted an inducement to persons to reside in Ireland. The burden of his speech had been that Ireland was poor and wretched; but he conveyed, almost in so many words, his idea that
 685 686 687
 MR. SPEAKER : In answer to the appeal made to me on a point of form, I have to say that this Bill was brought in in the ordinary manner upon petition—whether for the benefit of a community or of an individual is the same in principle. I must, of course, draw a distinction between the form of the Bill and the subject-matter of the Bill before the House. It does not appear to me that there is anything contrary to form in the manner in which this Bill has been introduced. But the question whether the subject-matter of the Bill is proper for a Private Bill is the point now under the consideration of the House, and it is for the House, and not for myself, to give an answer on that point.
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to move the Amendment of which he had given notice—
 "That this House observes with regret the decline of the population of Ireland, and will readily support Her Majesty's Government in any well devised measure to stimulate the profitable employment of the people: and that an Address to the Crown be proposed, founded on the foregoing Resolution." 662 "Could it be denied that upon a vast space of the surface of Ireland there was immense room for improvement to be effected by labour, and that there was a vast amount of superabundant labour seeking for and desirous of employment, but the employment of which was checked because there was no certainty of a return for the laying out of capital? In England the right of the tenant was secured not only by law but by the custom of the country, which was equivalent to law; that right was capable of being pleaded in a court of law, and compensation was awarded for improvements, made not only without the
 663 "In such cases the tenant ought not to be without a remedy. He ought to have a right to summon the landlord before the court of quarter sessions, and there get an order for liberty to make the improvements, unless the landlord showed good cause to the contrary. It is not likely that this resort to legal proceedings would often be necessary. The existence of the right would prevent the necessity of its exercise." 664 "I shall not, however, attempt to conceal from you the great disappointment that I feel as to the state of our traffic—especially for some months past. I fully calculated that after two good harvests had been secured in succession we might reasonably have expected some reaction from the dreadful state of depression under which this company has now laboured for five years back; but, on the contrary, since October last our traffic has rather diminished. I find by reference to official documents in the Audit Office that we have lost in goods during the last six months, compared with the corresponding period of 1863, not less than 8,342 tons of goods. In cattle we lost 9,217 head, and in sheep 12,132 head. Now, taking those different items at the rates which we receive for their conveyance—namely, 8s. 5½ d. 3s. s. 665 "Now, I have been favoured by returns from the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company, and from the steam company connected with the Chester and Holyhead line, and also from the Cork Steamship Company, and I am authorized to make use of them at this meeting. By those returns I find that there is a decrease in cattle shipped from Dublin during the last six months of 17,209, and a decrease in sheep of 31,475. The decrease from Cork is—cattle, 18,333; sheep, 18,819; making a total decrease from those two ports of 75,830 head of cattle and sheep. I have also been favoured with returns of the percentage of loss from both Dublin and Cork, and also from Waterford. Within the last six months the decrease of cattle shipped from Dublin was 17 per cent, and the decrease of sheep 19 per cent. The decrease from Cork was 60 per cent of cattle, and 46 per cent. of sheep. The decrease from Water-ford was 50 per cent cattle, and 45 per cent sheep. Now these are very strong facts, and well worthy of consideration. What is the question we then naturally ask ourselves? We are told on all hands that the tillage of Ireland has been decreasing for years, and that the pasture land has been increasing, and yet we find beyond all question that the quantity of cattle and sheep produced for a number of years fit for the market is less than it used to be." "Turning to Ireland, we find that country imports breadstuffs nearly as large as ever, while
 666 "The number of emigrants from each province during the first seven months of 1864 compared with the same period in 1863 is given at page 20. According to the returns received, 84,586 persons left Ireland this year up to the 31st of July, who stated it was their intention not to return, being an increase of 4,080 on the number for last year. The entire number of emigrants since the date when their enumeration at the several ports of Ireland commenced, 1st of May, 1851, to the 31st of July last, amounted to 1,499,642 persons." "While this emigration is so large I must tell you it is not diminishing. There is a large increase as compared with 1863. Look to the po-
 667 "I do not admit myself that emigration ought to be considered the safety-valve of Ireland. I want to see that employment for the agricultural labourers which will do away with all this talk about emigration being the safety-valve for Ireland, and how can we do this but by such works as the hon. Gentleman pointed out?" The Times 668 "We have a strong body in Parliament. Every county, as the hon. Gentleman has said, has its representative to advocate its interests. 'What I should like to see would be a measure pressed upon the Government—pressed upon the Imperial Government and upon Parliament by that legitimate Parliamentary influence, that fair and honourable co-operation and pressure, which would result in the carrying of such a measure—a measure which would have the effect, in my mind, of greatly relieving the agricultural interests by the fair and just granting of public money for the purpose of draining in this country. I maintain that this is a great Imperial question. I look upon the drainage of those vast tracts in Ireland as a question which ought to be dealt with by the Imperial Legislature. Individual proprietors cannot grapple with it—every one admits that. Look at what the Imperial Legislature spent upon the Caledonian Canal in Scotland. Look at what the Imperial Parliament spent upon the Ottawa River navigation works in Canada—over a million sterling for 123 miles. And then look at our magnificent Shannon, spreading over 200 miles of this country, running through ten counties, and having a population on its immediate borders of over a million of people. Does not that represent something worthy of the support of the Imperial Parliament?
 MR. MAGUIRE  moved the adjournment of the debate. There were more than a dozen Gentlemen evenly distributed at both sides of the House who were anxious to take part in a discussion of such moment to the country.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he should press his Motion to a division.
 MR. MAGUIRE  explained that he had not troubled the House to divide, as he had been given to understand privately, that after twelve o'clock the adjournment of the debate would not be opposed. He felt bound to repudiate the absurd doctrine which, according to the Member for Galway, some newspaper writers in Ireland had laid down, that the Government ought to assist private enterprise in commercial and manufacturing undertakings. For his own part, he must say that he never knew of any such doctrine put forward in Ireland, either in writings or speeches; and, were it put forward in his presence, he would be the first to repudiate it, as false and fatal—fatal to all spirit of self-reliance. But he did not conceive that there was any loss of dignity or self-respect on the part of the Irish representatives in asking the Administration to discharge the ordinary duties of government by aiding in every legitimate manner the enterprise, energy, and resolution of the people themselves. In the city of Cork there was no desire that a representative should come to London and appeal to Parliament  in forma pauperis. 729 730 731 732 a fortiori, 733 Ironical cries of
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has received any information as to the Government of the Republic of Uruguay having sent Commissioners to Paris to solicit the protection of the Emperor of the French against the Brazilian troops now besieging Monte Video; whether any similar aid has been asked from Her Majesty's Government; and, whether Her Majesty's Government has received any information by the French packet as to the condition of affairs in the river Plate, especially in reference to the threatened blockade of Monte Video, and the action, if any, taken by the  Corps Diplomatique
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, it was not his intention to endeavour to defend the consistency of the hon. Member for Carlisle, or to attack the Bill, but he was really going to put it to the Home Secretary whether he was doing his duty? This was really a Public Bill—let them remember that—and it was supported by the right hon. Gentleman because he fancied that by it he would get in the thin end of the wedge, and that by and by he would be able to carry out generally the principles of the Bill. What were those principles? The Legislature had thought fit to put a certain class of dealers under the  surveillance surveillance 650 pro con
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  begged to thank his hon. Colleague for bringing forward his Motion. He complimented the hon. Member who brought forward this Motion upon the temperate language in
 690
 MR. SMOLLETT  asked the Secretary of State for India, Whether any Despatches have recently been received regarding the works proposed for opening up the navigation of the river Godavery; and if he will lay the same upon the table of the House? And whether a flotilla on the Godavery was now maintained at the expense of the State; and whether the Government of India was still resolved to persevere in carrying out the projects of the local engineers, and at what estimated cost?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if this Bill had really been brought forward as a public measure the arguments in its favour would have been quite conclusive. But though this was brought in as a Private Bill, it involved one of the gravest matters the House had to consider—whether they would allow it to be proceeded with in that form, seeing that it involved important public considerations. He recollected perfectly well that when the Manchester Education Bill was before the House he took exception to its appearing in the form of a Private Bill, because, though it might be so introduced, it involved matters of such important public consideration that he thought the House should have an opportunity of dealing with it publicly. And the House agreed with him in that view. The principles of that Bill were attempted to be introduced afterwards in a public measure; but the House rejected them. But that was not all. The present measure, as the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had pointed out, involved a question which, if admitted, would affect the whole constitutional functions of the House of Commons—the principle that this House has the control of the taxation and expenditure of public money. Those matters were considered of such moment that they were required to be introduced in a Committee of the Whole House, But if they were to have questions of that nature introduced in a Private Bill and sent upstairs to a Committee of four Members, those four Members would be deciding a question which involved important financial considerations. When any matter was referred to a Select Committee, and the Members were unanimous, when it was supported by a majority, the decision of the Committee was generally supported by the House. But if the present Bill, or any measure of a similar kind, were sent to a Committee, and if the four best and most experienced Members of the House could be picked out and charged with the consideration of the Bill, it would still be necessary when it came down from them to discuss its provisions as a public measure; and thus the feeling of the House would be brought to bear upon the very considerations that it was now sought to withdraw from their cog-
 655
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that he was surprised that the hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Lawson) should have taken this course. Last year that hon. Gentleman himself introduced a measure called the Permissive Bill, by which he intended to check intemperance, and now when another Bill was brought in having the same object, but not adopting his machinery, he thought it right to oppose it. The Bill was substantially the same as that of 1863, but it was a mistake to say it was supported solely by the licensed victuallers of Liverpool. Petitions in its favour had been presented from the magistrates, town-council, and select vestry of Liverpool, the Board of Guardians of the West Derby Union (the largest Union in England), and the Toxteth Park Board of Guardians. The only provisions of the Bill which were not to be found in the Bill of 1863 were the clauses whose object was to check the licensing of public-houses in neighbourhoods where they were not wanted, by fixing a ratable value to houses below which licences should not be given, which fixed the licence at the increased sum of £30 a year, and made it uniform for all houses, thus abolishing the distinction between public-houses and beershops; while, as had been stated, it carried out as many as seven of the recommendations of the Committee of 1853. There was no town in the kingdom in which greater efforts had been made to provide for the recreation and the moral and social improvement of the people than in Liverpool, and yet, notwithstanding that, there was no other town in which intemperance prevailed to so great an extent. It appeared from the Report of the Chief Constable of Police that the number of cases of drunkenness in Liverpool were in the year 1861,9,834; in 1862, 12,076; in 1863, 13,912; and in 1864, 14,002. Adding the cases of assault arising from drunkenness the number would be 17,265; and of 27,000 cases of drunkenness in Lancashire, as nearly
 646 647
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished, in reference to the constitutional question which had been raised, to state exactly how the matter stood in reference to the Exchequer. The Bill, as submitted, contained no clause whatever relating to taxation. ["Oh!"] That was the fact. It certainly did contain a clause in italics, which was an indication of what the promoters intended to ask for; but that clause the Committee on the Bill would have no power to adopt until the measure had passed through a Committee of the Whole House. The prerogative of the House as to local taxation would, therefore, be preserved entire. It was a matter of frequent occurrence that taxes, particularly those imposed by stamps, were of necessity dealt with by Private Bills, and they were dealt with under cover of a special authority given by Committee of the Whole House. That removed the objection of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). Then, as to the objection taken by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) that the House was now dealing with a matter of public policy, and one which ought not to be dealt with by a Private Bill—he would say that all questions, in a certain sense, were matters of public policy. In the case of the Manchester and Salford Education Bill, to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred, the House was asked to deal with matters of the very highest policy in a Private Bill, and it was then held to be utterly impossible to deal with it without prejudging the case for the whole country. ["Hear!"] But was that the case in regard to the present Bill. ["Hear!"] He heard strong cheers, not exclusively, but specially from that quarter of the House which was so powerfully manned by metropolitan Members. There was no question at all that the House often treated questions of police on different grounds from questions of public policy. They dealt experimentally with questions of police in particular places. If those experiments were not successful, the Legislature was not bound to recognize and adopt them for the country at large. These matters of police were regulations bearing upon the morality of the community, and yet they were not deemed unfit to be dealt with by
 656
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that he should vote against the second reading of this Bill, not because it was opposed by the licensed vituallers of London, but because two public principles of immense importance were involved in it—the abolition of the discretion of magistrates in granting licences and putting all licences upon the same footing; and it would be impossible for the House to apply such principles to Liverpool without feeling itself pledged to extend them to the whole country. If the changes proposed were good for Liverpool they were good for the rest of the country, and therefore he thought the House ought not to acquiesce in the present measure. At the same time he must admit that the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. Horsfall's) constituents had much reason to complain of the Government for neglecting to legislate on the subject. That the measure presented two years ago was supported from the Treasury Bench and was rejected by the House, not upon its merits, but because they could not pass such a Bill for a particular town, was a very strong reason why the Government should have kept their promises and brought in a general licensing Bill, and he could not conceive why that had not been done. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department was ready with a Bill, but afterwards declined to produce it. That refusal could not have been occasioned by the merits of the licensing question, but must have rested upon other grounds. Acting in obedience to the feelings of the country might be carried too far, and a Ministry might forget their duty in considering whether Bills would be acceptable. The Cabinet ought not to have been deterred by any electioneering considerations from introducing a general licensing measure, and if they had adopted that course the wants of the great towns would have been met, and it would not have been necessary for Liverpool now to ask for what could not be conceded.
 MR. GREGORY  said, that although he represented a part of Ireland in which the utmost misery and discontent prevailed, he was bound to admit that if the Chancellor of the Exchequer were to give him  carte blanche 723 724 Trent 725 726 727
 MR. MONSELL  regretted that the hon. Member for Norfolk had introduced into the debate a number of exciting subjects. The hon. Member considered that free trade had been the destruction of Ireland. Now, if he would take the trouble to look at the Devon commission he would find that five gentlemen of the highest intelligence had reported that the Irish people were the worse clothed, the worst fed, and the worst housed people in the universe. That was the happy condition of the people under the old state of things. With regard to the remarks of the hon. Member respecting the Liberal Government, no doubt that Government had many faults, but he could tell the hon. Member what it had done—it had delivered that country from the admonitions and ascendancy of men like the hon. Gentleman—men who declared against the agitation for Catholic emancipation, and who prevented that country from obtaining a single halfpenny by way of loan. Passing from the speech of the hon. Member, he came to that of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had entirely mistaken the object and scope of the Resolution of the hon. Member for the King's County. What the hon. Gentleman desired to do was to repeat his Motion of last year—to state that Ireland was at the present time in so degraded and lamentable a condition that it was the duty of the Government and of the House to adopt some exceptional measures to assist her to escape from that deplorable condition. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer objected to the Motion, because it was likely to excite expectations that could never be realized, and thus be the means of disappointment and discouragement to
 703 "That he hoped the hon. Member who had brought forward the Motion would be content with the expression of feeling which he had elicited from all sides of the House, and not divide, as it was the intention of the Government to bring forward some such measures as those indicated by the hon. Gentleman." bond fide 704 705 706 6d. 707 708
 MR. WATKIN  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any and what representations have been made to or received from the Government of or the Ambassador from the United States, in reference to the Passport System, and the
 661
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  explained that the reason why the Committee on Irish taxation did not make a report last year was the lateness in the Session at which they had concluded their labours, and not any want of ability to arrive at a conclusion. He took exception to some of the statements made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to the income tax and assessed taxes. As to the former, the right hon. Gentleman said there was an allowance in favour of Ireland, because great part of the country was rated upon the Government valuation, and was therefore rated under its true value. But his own experience was that in Ulster, at all events, no advantage was enjoyed on this score, and there were very few landlords who did not pay income tax upon a sum which they did not receive. As to the alleged exemption enjoyed by Ireland under the assessed taxes, it appeared from a return presented to this House that the number of inhabited houses in Ireland of the value of £20 and upwards which would be subjected to the house duty of  2d. 697 698 699
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government did not intend to propose a Bill upon that subject during the present Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that when the Bill was before the House two years ago
 648 649
 SIR JOHN HAY  asked the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is the intention of the Admiralty to give any further trial to Captain Sayer's Lifeboat, which seems a valuable invention for saving life?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, I am glad to have an opportunity of following the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, because he has touched on one or two topics which I desire to notice. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the
 709 710 "By Returns it appears that there is a decrease of cattle shipped from Dublin during the last six months of 17,209, and a decrease of sheep of 31,475. The decrease from Cork is—cattle, 18,333; sheep, 18,819; making a total decrease from these two ports of 75,836 head of cattle and sheep. Within the last six months the decrease of cattle shipped from Dublin was 17 per cent, and the decrease of sheep 19 per cent. The decrease from Cork was 60 per cent of cattle, and 46 per cent of sheep. The decrease from Waterford was 50 per cent of cattle, and 45 per cent of sheep." 711 712 "There is not in Ireland the division of labour that exists in Great Britain; the body of the labouring class look to agricultural employment, and to it only for support. The supply of agricultural labour is thus so considerable as greatly to exceed the demand for it, hence come small earnings and wide spread misery." 713 714 715 s. 2s. 1d. 716 717
 MR. LAWSON,  in rising to move the Amendment of which he had given notice,
 "That the granting of licences for the sale of intoxicating liquors is a subject which ought not at present to be dealt with by a private Bill," 643 644
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think the proposal of the hon. Gentleman is rather premature. It is only a quarter past eleven o'clock. We ought, at all events, to have the advantage of hearing two or three additional Members before we adjourn.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War Whether the Number of the Army on the
 747
 THE MARGUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, it was quite true that on the 1st of the present month of February the number of the army was four thousand below the number in the Estimates of last year. But he must remind the hon. and gallant Member that the Establishment was exactly that which it was proposed to retain during the present year according to the Estimates just laid on the table.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  could assure the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, that he was not going to add one note to that wretched whine for money of which he had spoken, but when the case of wretchedness and misery of Ireland was brought before the House, he thought that it would have been well to have kept to the facts on which a hearing was demanded. In the debate which had taken place, he denied that there had been any whining for public money; and although several Members had spoken of advances by which Irish enterprise might be stimulated, it was by loans to be repaid. He had heard no proposal of grants in any way that could fairly be called a whine for public money. Among all the panaceas which had been propounded for the cure of Ireland, he had listened in vain for those of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He (Mr. Roebuck) had admitted that evils did exist, and that there were dissensions amongst Irishmen, but he (Lord Dunkellin) could not allow that the latter were the cause of the former. In speaking of distress, he was referring exclusively to the west and south of Ireland, for he admitted that the north with its manufactures was flourishing; and it was probably from the happy condition of the north, that statistics were derived which led the right hon. Baronet to infer the general prosperity of the country. He believed that the right hon. Baronet and the Government relied too much on statistics in the matter. Statistics were very useful in their way, but they could not supersede the expe-
 758 759 s. 760 s. 8d. 761
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask
 748
 MR. PEEL,  in reply, said, he understood it was intended very shortly to publish the two first volumes of an edition of the Brehon Laws, and he believed that one volume would be published in the course of next month. With regard to the other part of the Question, the Government
 749
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he had listened to the debate with the greatest possible interest, and if he ventured to present himself to the House, it was not only because of the importance of the subject to all parts of the kingdom, but because there had always been in Scotland a very kindly and warm feeling of interest towards Ireland. There was a great deal in common between the two countries, and Scotland was by no means so deeply responsible for the misgovernment of Ireland as the sister kingdom, because many of the evils of Ireland were at an end before Scotland was united to England. There were many circumstances, too, in the position of Scotland, analogous to those of Ireland. Scotland had a climate almost exactly similar, and she had a large Celtic
 780 781 782 783 784 785
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  regretted that he could not support the Resolution of the hon. Member for the King's County, because, instead of deploring the causes which led to emigration, the Resolution deplored the emigration itself. Now he (Sir Hervey Bruce) could not deplore it when it was taking his suffering and poverty-stricken countrymen to places where they could not only procure comfort but affluence. He had been much pleased with the remarks of some of the English and Scotch Members who had taken part in the debate, and who had shown a lively interest in the affairs of Ireland, but it certainly was amusing to hear the remarks of some hon. Gentlemen who, after a tour of a week or a fortnight in Ireland, came down to lecture Irish Members who were probably equal to them in intellect—certainly equal to them in the interest which they took in Irish matters—and far superior to them in the experience of what was beneficial to their country. An amusing instance of that kind of teaching was given, when they were told that the Irish were a debased and mutilated people. He denied that they were; but if they had
 796 797 798 799 800 The Times
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has received any communication from the magistrates of the Middleton Cheney Petty Sessions relative to the committal of two men for three months who were unable to pay a fine of 30 s.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he thought that the most convenient course for the public service would be to allow him to make his statement first. With regard to the second Question, he proposed to ask the House to allow him to make his statement that night, if he could do so before ten o'clock.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had heard the concluding words of the noble Lord with great pleasure, and hoped the House might infer therefrom that the Government acceded to the proposal made by his hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote). If this was so, he could only hope that the hon. Member (Mr. Hennessy) would be satisfied with the peaceable victory he had gained, not over the Government, but by a debate which, during its progress, acted upon Gentlemen who had assembled to hear it without the least reference to party, and with the sole object of devising some means of remedying evils which all acknowledged and which all deplored. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press the Motion to a division.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he had heard with surprise one reputed so great an economic authority as the right hon. Member for Calne enunciating the most common-place and palpable fallacies on the subject of Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman said he sat upon the Committee of last year upon the taxation of Ireland, and he had argued that one country could not be more heavily taxed than the other, seeing that the taxes paid by the two countries were identical. The right hon. Gentleman, however, forgot that the far greater part of the taxation of these countries being indirect, it necessarily pressed more heavily upon the poorer country. The right hon. Gentleman also said that there was no tax whatever upon the raw material of manufactures in Ireland, but he forgot that the raw material was taxed upon one of the principal among her few manufactures—paper—not by the legislation of this but of other countries. The right hon. Gentleman added that the Irish tenants had no capital to invest; but "labour," as the right hon. Gentleman would find in any hand book of political economy, was one of the principal elements of capital, and they were ready to invest in abundance their capital, which was their labour, in the improvement of the soil. The right hon. Gentleman had pointed out how the Corn Laws had factitiously fostered the cultivation of cereal crops, and he jumped to a fallacy in regard to agriculture. He seemed to think there was no medium between the cultivation of cereal crops and turning the whole country into pasture land. But the whole course of agriculture was tending, not to the cultivation of cereal crops exclusively or the turning of land into pasture, but to the cultivation of roots and grain suitable for the raising of cattle and stock. To preach to the whole people of Ireland that the necessary destiny of their country was that it should be turned into pasture was reversing the whole science of agriculture. Cereal crops alone would not pay. There was where the mistake of the Irish people lay; but it would be quite as great a mistake to adopt pasture exclusively. The right hon. Gentleman said that there was one species of taxation which pressed heavily upon Ireland—the voluntary taxation of the people for the support of the Catholic clergy, and he contrasted it with the enforced taxation for the Church of the minority. The serious mischief, however,
 778 779
 MR. DUNLOP  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. M'Mahon) in comparing Ireland with Scotland had said that Scotland had this advantage over Ireland, that in Scotland the Established Church was not the Church of the minority. In this he was quite mistaken—it was the Church of the minority though not to so preposterous an extent as in Ireland. He would take the opportunity of confirming the statement of his right hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate that there had always been, as there ought to be, a very kindly feeling on the part of Scotchmen towards Ireland. Scotland and Ireland, in many respects, stood in a similar position towards England, and Scotchmen had always shown themselves anxious to assist in the amelioration of Ireland. Shortly after he entered Parliament he sat for three months on a Committee which was engaged in considering Irish Landlord and Tenant Bills, and since that time he had taken a deep and hearty interest in Irish questions; but he could not go with the Irish Members in pressing the Government for postal subsidies and such like objects He thought that the Irish people might take a lesson from the position Scotland now held, as compared with Ireland, which might do them a service. If they would look at Scotland closely, they would see that the two countries stood very much on the same footing. The climate of Scotland was not so good as that of Ireland; the land of the former was poorer than that of the latter; the natural harbours and the rivers of Ireland were superior to those of Scotland. Ireland had her Parliament taken from her; Scotland had lost her Parliament also, and she had also the Court of the Sovereign taken from her; so that Scotland had all these causes of absenteeism in quite as great strength as they existed in Ireland. How was it, then, that Scotland was prosperous in manufactures and commerce, and resident gentry? How was it that not only the Scotch proprietors were not weaned away
 790 regium donum, 791
 MR. LEFROY,  while he congratulated the hon. Member for the King's County on the tone of moderation in which he had brought this subject forward, and on the great amount of information which he had brought to bear upon it, regretted that he could not give his vote in favour of the Motion. He should not follow the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the question of the Established Church into the debate. Were it necessary to drag that subject before the House, it would not be difficult to show that Ireland would receive little benefit if she were deprived of the residence there of the bishops and clergy of that Church. That he believed was the opinion of the great mass of the Irish people. But, following the example of other hon. Members, he would avoid
 792 793 "I can instance large estates, under the most popular landlords, from which there has been as much emigration as from any other estates in Ireland. There are few landlords in Ireland that bear a higher character for kindness and liberality to their tenants than Lord Palmerston. He gives large employment on his extensive estates in Sligo. He expends large sums every year in the improvement of his property and in the improvement of the dwellings and homesteads of his tenants. He scarcely ever turns out a tenant—indeed, I may well say he carries this rule, if possible, to a fault; and yet we have every year a large number of tenants emigrating, and leaving the property, and seeking to improve their prosperity in other lands. I feel confident, therefore, that harsh conduct on the part of landlords is no cause why so many people leave this country."
 MR. LAYARD  replied that he was much obliged to his hon. Friend for giving him the opportunity of stating that the despatch was a pure invention. No such despatch had been written, nor any despatch similar or approaching to it.
 Mr. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the first part of the Return moved for by the hon. Gentleman had reference to a statement which he (Mr. Villiers) had recently made in moving for the appointment of a Committee to consider the condition of the irremovable poor, as to the decrease in the houses and increase of the population of 821 agricultural parishes. That statement was made not upon the authority of the Census, but from a report upon which he could place the utmost reliance. As to the latter part of the Motion, there was no particular faculty in the Poor Law Board for furnishing information any more than existed in any other public Department, and it would be most inconvenient for the Poor Law Board to have such an amount of work imposed upon it as the hon. Gentleman proposed by his Motion.
 Return  ordered, Mr.Knight.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  observed, that he had not called any witnesses on the occasion referred to by the hon. Gentleman, whose version of what had occurred in the Committee room was not correct. His great objection to producing the Returns was on the ground of the expense.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would postpone his Motion for a day or two he should make inquiries as to whether the figures he wished for were in the Poor Law Office.
 MR. HOWES  said, that Yarmouth had brought in the Bill without the consent of the other parties, but the Commission extended not only to Yarmouth, but to 100 miles of river in the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. Who paid the dues? It was said the shipowners, but ultimately, of course, the consumers paid, and they ought to have a voice in the matter. It was said that the Commission was an old one. Undoubtedly this was the case, but it should not be forgotten that its powers were altered as lately as 1847. By this Bill, Yarmouth, which originally appointed one-fourth of the Commissioners, was to have a practical majority in all cases, while the other parties, at present appointing three-fourths, were to be swamped.
 MR. WARNER  said, he hoped to be able in a very short time to convince the House that the Bill ought to be rejected on the second reading. In the reign of Charles II. a Commission was established for the conservancy of the navigation of the principal rivers in the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, and also of the port of Great Yarmouth. The Commissioners had twice had their powers extended, and at present they were twelve in number—three appointed by the justices of Norfolk, three by the justices of Suffolk, three by Norwich, and three by different parties in Great Yarmouth. These Commissioners had hitherto discharged their duties very satisfactorily to all the great interests concerned. But the Corporation of Yarmouth, without advancing any reason for so doing, had taken upon itself to ask Parliament to alter the Commission, to increase the number of Commissioners, and to give to Yarmouth a preponderating influence which would over- ride all the other interests concerned. Hon. Members looking at the printed Bill would be altogether unable to understand its real object. There were clauses authorizing the making improvements in the haven, according to deposited plans; but these improvements had been abandoned, and the promoters now came to Parliament simply to extend the influence of Yarmouth in the Commission. The whole drift of the Bill was to increase the number of Commissioners from twelve to eighteen, and to give the extra six to Yarmouth, so that—instead of having three out of twelve—Yarmouth would have nine out of eighteen, or just one half; and, inasmuch as the Commission sat in Yarmouth, that place would, of course, have a working majority of Commissioners. The counties of Norfolk and Suffolk were opposed to the Bill; and Norwich had also petitioned against it. Norwich was deeply interested in this
 745
 MR. KNIGHT  consented, under these circumstances, to postpone his Motion.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he should divide the House upon the Motion.
 MR. KNIGHT  then moved for the production of the concluding portion of the Returns. He was very sorry that the right hon. Gentleman had refused the Return when so important a measure was being brought forward; and, in fact, the refusal at such a time appeared rather suspicious, and made one doubt that if produced the Returns would bear out the inferences drawn from them. When he was on the Irremovable Poor Committee the right hon. Gentleman was the Chairman, and many of his witnesses stated that cottages had been pulled down in certain close parishes. He insisted upon the names of those parishes being given, in which the Committee supported him, and he was then enabled to give evidence
 831
 MR. KNIGHT  moved, according to notice, that there be laid before the House—
 "Returns showing the names of the 821 Agricultural Parishes stated as having decreased in houses and increased in population between 1851 and 1861, and the counties in which such parishes are situated: "Showing the number of Inhabitants and Inhabited Houses in each of the said parishes in each Census from 1801 to 1861: "And, showing what Manufactures or Mines, if any, are carried on or worked in each of the said parishes if the Census contains such information."
 MR. PEACOCKE  congratulated the hon. Member for the King's County, inasmuch as his speech had extracted from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department an acknowledgment of that which had been denied by the Secretary for Ireland—namely, that some distress prevailed in that country. Every hon. Gentleman, he believed, acknowledged the existence of that distress, except the Secretary for Ireland. The right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had both thought proper to attack his noble Friend (Lord Robert Cecil), and to charge him with saying what he had never said—that the present distress was owing to the Government. But what his noble Friend had said was that this country had incurred a heavy debt to Ireland for her past misgovernment, and that Parliament ought, therefore, to depart from the strict application of economical rules in her favour. He (Mr. Peacocke) was very much inclined to partially endorse this view, because he believed that the policy of this country for years had been that of increasing her own manufactures at the expense of those of Ireland. Nor had England been content with endeavouring
 819 "The fact is, the professors of the Catholic religion are under such discouragement that they cannot engage in any trade which requires both industry and capital. If they succeed and make a fortune, what are they to do with it? They can neither buy land nor take a mortgage, nor even fine down the rent of a lease. Where is there a people in the world to be found industrious under such circumstances?" "I have conversed on the subject with the most distinguished characters of the kingdom, and I cannot, after all, but declare that the scope, purport, and aim of the laws of discovery, as executed, are not against the Catholic religion, which increases under them, but against the industry and property of whoever professes that religion. In vain has it been said that consequence and power follow property, and that the attack is made in order to wound the doctrine through its property. If such was the intention, I reply that ninety years' experience proves the folly and futility of it. Those laws have crushed all the industry and wrested most of the property from the Catholics, but the religion triumphs, and is thought to increase." 820
 MR. BLAKE  said, that at that late hour, and after so protracted a debate, he would not trespass on the patience of the House, but would reserve for another occasion, which he believed would soon offer, more lengthened observations. He was desirous, however, of setting the House right on a few matters which, owing to remarks of two of the last speakers, they might adopt erroneous opinions about. The Secretary of State for the Home Department had complained that "while the Mover of the Resolution expressed a desire for equal laws for England and Ireland, still that he suggested a law for Ireland relative to the tenure of land which would not be tolerated in England." Fortunately for England, the relations between landlord and tenant in England did not render such a law necessary; and his hon. Friend only wished that in Ireland that should obtain the force of law which custom and public opinion really made law in England. The state of things which the right hon. Baronet described as existing in England had unfortunately, with few exceptions, no parallel in Ireland. All that he and those who acted with him desired was to have it so, and the House would not be troubled with their complaints. The hon. Member for Stirling had drawn attention to the fact, that in the province of Ulster, where tenant-right existed, there was 27½ per cent of emigration by last return, and only 11½ from Connaught, where there was no tenant-right. The reason was very easy
 821
 MR. HENNESSY  asked whether the noble Viscount accepted the interpretation just put upon his speech by the noble Lord, and whether the Government would consent to the re-appointment of the Committee on Irish Taxation with the addition of such an order of reference as was described by the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford.
 MR. HENNESSY  did not clearly understand, from what the noble Viscount had just said, that Her Majesty's Government would agree to the proposal; and therefore he must divide.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I have listened with considerable interest, but with still greater curiosity, to the debate of last Friday as carried on by Irish Members on Irish affairs. Now, I think I may say of my-self that for many years past I have been what is called a friend of Ireland. There has been no discussion in this House with respect to her liberties or her people which I have not supported. On this occasion I have not been disappointed, for my expectations were not raised, but I have heard with sorrow a number of Gentlemen who for thirty years past have enjoyed Parliamentary and constitutional Government, advancing such statements as I heard upon Friday night with respect to Ireland. The hon. Member (Mr. Hennessy) who opened the debate, deserves, I think, the approbation of the House for the manner and temper with which he executed the task he had undertaken. There was an utter absence of all party and declamatory matter. There my approval ends. There was nothing in the speech which the hon. Gentleman made which probed to the bottom the mischiefs which now surround Ireland—nothing which suggested anything like a remedy. Really, Sir, the whole thing from the beginning to the end on the part of the Irish Members was a sort of moan of a beggar—a sort of mendicant whine, for I may so call it, without any thorough understanding or appreciation of what an independent man ought to be. The hon. Member who opened the debate began by stating two things with regard to Ireland which I am not going to contest. One was that Irishmen as a body were much stronger than Englishmen or Scotchmen; and the next that Ireland as a country was very much more fertile than England or Scotland. Well, one would have supposed that the necessary conclusion from that would be that the Irish people would be more thriving and more happy. Then comes the next proposition of the hon. Gentleman, which is really nothing more than a complaint of the Government of England. As to the proposal that the House "will readily support Her Majesty's Government in any well-devised measure to stimulate the profitable employment of the people," any statesman would know that it was mere idle verbiage and mischievous verbiage. But the real
 752 753 754 755 756 757
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Under what prison regulation George Victor Townley, sent from Bedlam to Pentonville as an ordinary prisoner under sentence of penal servitude for life, was there allowed access to books of entertaining literature such as  Silvio Pellico Gil Blas
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, When the Brehon Laws will be published, and whether he is about to take any steps for transmitting to the Dublin Record Office copies of those parts of the English Rolls relating to Ireland?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he expects the Report of the Special Commission on Sea Fisheries to be presented in time to enable him to carry in this Session a Bill founded on their recommendations?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, it would be a source of sorrow and dissatisfaction to the people of Ireland that all the hon. Gentlemen who had addressed the House on the Ministerial side seemed not to regret the drain of the Irish people. The learned Lord Advocate, judging by the tenor of his speech, ought to have moved as an Amendment, "That this House rejoices at the departure of the Irish people from Ireland." It seemed to be assumed that emigration there was the necessary result of existing economic laws which could not be altered by legislation. But he (Mr. M'Mahon) apprehended that the present miserable condition of the Irish people arose from a direct interference with and violation of the well-known rules of political economy, and was directly attributable to the Government of the country. The people of Ireland possessed a fine soil, the source of all wealth; and if they had only the liberty to till it for their own benefit, they would be a wealthy people, and need not come to that House with the whine of mendicants, as the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield had expressed it. But they were not allowed to accumulate in their own country the results of their own energy. How could a country prosper when £4,000,000 a year went in absentee rents, and £8,000,000 were taken away in taxes, without the slightest return excepting in stamp receipts? It was impossible that a country could thrive while such a system continued, and it was therefore the duty of the Government to see if something could not be done to amend such a system. He did not think that anything could be done by means of grants for public works. He did not want any violation of economical laws in Ireland. The Irish did not want any help to stimulate their industry; they only required to be let alone; although where the Government had done injury, as it had done through the Irish Board of Works in the case of raising the level of the Shannon, it was but fair that that injury should be redressed. But the whole course of recent legislation had been adverse to the coun-
 786 787 788 789
 MR. LOWE : I hope the House will allow me to recall its attention for a few moments to the more immediate debate of to-night, although the subject may be less exciting—and certainly, as far as I am concerned, in very inferior hands. The question is one which has hitherto been unsolved, and is, perhaps, insoluble; but, in obedience to the orders of the House, I spent last year a great part of my time in investigating the grievances and complaints of Ireland, and my reflection on the matter has led me to certain conclusions which I ask permission to lay briefly before the House. I quite agree with the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down in what he has said with regard to the first proposition before us to-night, which calls on us to lament the decrease of the population of Ireland. In the abstract, no spectacle can be presented to the human mind more melancholy or lamentable than a nation declining in population; and if anything can increase the melancholy of such a prospect, it is that the decline of population is not slow or gradual, but effected by a great displacement of the people, a great transfer of human beings from one part of the world to another, which cannot take place without great and grievous physical suffering, and laceration of the best feelings of humanity. But the hon. and learned Mem-
 767 768 769 770 771 772 773 774 775 776
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the Commissioners expected to con-elude their inquiry at Easter, and that their Report might be expected to be laid before the House in May or June. He did, however, not think it probable that Parliament would be able to legislate on the subject this Session.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Board of Trade had been willing to mediate between the parties, a request to that effect having been addressed to them. The promoters were willing to abide by the decision of the Department, but the opponents would not, and so, of course, the attempt to settle the matter amicably fell to the ground. He did not think the Bill one which ought to be thrown out on the second reading, for the matters of detail which it involved could be advantageously considered in Committee.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in the absence of any Irish Law Officer, it is intended, on the part of Her Majesty's Government, that a Bill to Register the Titles to Lands in Ireland shall be introduced during the present Session, either by the Attorney General in this House or by the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that after the recommendation made by Earl Russell last year the Government considered the question and found it surrounded with very considerable difficulty. They thought it desirable to give all parties the benefit of being heard before coming to any decision, and also to give Parliament the power of considering the matter. They had, therefore, during the last Session produced all the papers in their possession, and he was not aware that the project had been revived since that time. So far as the Treasury was concerned, the subject was not now before them, nor was it their intention to proceed further in the matter unless sufficient grounds were laid to satisfy them that they ought to do so.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  thought that a tone of too great despondency had been indulged in in that debate, as if the evils under which Ireland was suffering were permanent rather than temporary. The famine, indeed, spoke for itself, but the present distress was owing, in his opinion, to a concatenation of adverse or difficult circumstances, among the first of which was the enormous and profligate Imperial expenditure occurring during a succession of bad harvests. Next he was bound to say was to be included the unfortunate and impolitic legislation of the
 794 3s. 6d. 795
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER,  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Benchers of the Inns of Court to appoint Judicial Committees in certain cases, and to give the necessary powers to such Committees, said this Bill was in substance, with two exceptions, similar to the Bill he introduced last year. The first of those exceptions was that he made this Bill permissive; the effect of which would be that the Benchers of the Inns of Court would form a sort of grand jury, and would decide whether the particular case ought to go before the Judicial Committee or not. The other alteration was that he now omitted the last clause of the Bill, which enabled the person charged with any offence to give the go-by to the Benchers of the Inn of Court to which he belonged, and to go at once before the Judges. He proposed to give ample time for the discussion of the Bill, and he believed, from rumours he had heard, that there was rather a change of opinion among the former opponents of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I have listened to this debate with that interest and attention which I think it demands, as deeply affecting the welfare and happiness of so large a portion of the United Kingdom. Although it has lasted for a considerable time, I do not think that time has been thrown away. The hon. and learned Gentleman who moved the Amendment on the Motion for going into a Committee of Supply—although I differ from him in some of the opinions he expressed and the remedies he suggested for the present condition of Ireland—introduced the subject in an able and temperate speech, of which no one has a right to complain, and the debate has been conducted for the most part in the same spirit; and whatever may be the immediate result of the Motion—whether or not it be pressed to a division—the debate cannot fail to have a beneficial influence, having elicited, as I think, facts of great importance with regard to the actual condition of Ireland, and the causes of that condition, from men of weight and authority intimately acquainted with that country, opinions which cannot fail to lead the inhabitants to look for a remedy for the evils we all deplore, not so much to the Government and Parliament as to their united energies, and their own resources. I say, "evils we all deplore," because, without entering into minute criticism on the state of Ireland, without questioning the accuracy of the description of her miseries, or stopping to dwell on the hopeful signs of improve-
 801 802 803 804 s. s., s., 805 806 807
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, it was quite clear that the magistrates were under the impression that the hon. Member had imputed to them a violation of the law. No doubt the letter of the law sanctioned the course which the magistrates had adopted. Under what was called Jervis's Act they had the power, where a penalty was imposed and there were no means of distress, of committing for any term, not exceeding three months' in default of payment. In the two eases brought before them the men had been previously convicted. The magistrates believed they had the means of paying the penalty, and in fact one of them paid the penalty within four days, and was then discharged. It was in the discretion of the magistrates to impose a penalty, but he thought that the spirit of the Act would be contravened if a penalty were imposed which it was known could not be paid, merely for the purpose of subjecting parties to imprisonment. It was clear that such was not the case in the present instance.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is the intention of the Lord Chancellor to introduce into the House of Lords, at an early period, a Bill for the registration of Titles to Land in Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that by the rules no books were allowed to be read by prisoners, except those contained in the prison library approved by the Directors of Convict Prisons. On the recent appointment of a new Governor of Pentonville, he found that a practice had grown up under his predecessor of departing from that rule, and in certain cases allowing prisoners to receive books sent them by their friends if not disapproved of by the Chaplain. This practice was immediately put a stop to.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  wished to ask the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether the following passage from a Despatch of Earl Russell's, of January 27, which has been published in some English papers, and commented upon by certain foreign newspapers, is authentic, namely:—
 750 "If Austria should allow Prussia to dispose of the Duchies as she pleases, serious complications would be brought on in Europe, the responsibility for which would naturally fall on Austria; and further, that the destiny of the Duchies can only be legally settled by the Confederation, and that Power which should usurp for itself the disposition of them, without their consent, would commit a most arbitrary act."
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, it was true that the Bill was promoted by the Corporation of Great Yarmouth, but they represented the entire shipping and mercantile interest of the port; they were the owners of the port, and they proposed by this Bill to give up, after ten years, the Corporation dues. He was not the advocate of the promoters or opponents of the measure, but he saw no chance of a reconciliation between the parties without some intervention, and-both sides having applied for the intervention of the Board of Trade he hoped that the Bill would be allowed to go to a Committee, upon whose recommendations the Board of Trade could act in the arrangement of difficulties which were at present a crying evil. The shipowners and merchants of Yarmouth, who paid nearly the whole of the dues of the haven, were all in favour of the Bill, and considering that the present Commission was appointed 200 years ago, it was scarcely to be expected that changes in it were not needed. The objection to the Bill was, that it sought to alter the constitution of the Commission. Well, it did so. In consequence of some of the Commissioners residing at a distance from Yarmouth, the Bill proposed to introduce two representatives of the fishing and merchant shipping interests of the borough. At a large meeting which took place on Tuesday last
 746
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, I have no intention of entering into the various questions into which this debate has wandered. The House, I am sure, heard with pleasure the careful, calm, able, and interesting statement of the hon. and learned Member for the King's County, who proposed this Amendment, and I own it appeared to me that the topics which he brought forward were well worthy the consideration, and, if necessary, the further inquiry of the House. But, at the same time, if I were called on by recording a vote to pledge myself to the proposition which appears on the paper I should have difficulty in affirming, at all events, the first part of it, knowing how very different interpretations the early words of his Amendment must be susceptible of. The hon. and learned Gentleman asks the House to affirm that it observes with regret the decline of the population of Ireland. Now, as an abstract proposition I entirely concur in that statement, and I am sure we must all regret very much that circumstances should have existed leading to a decline of the population. We all must regret that it has occurred. Of course, wherever there is much emigration from any country the youngest and strongest and most energetic go, and those who are not so young or so energetic
 762 763 764 765 766
 MR. CAIRD  said, that the question of emigration was one of the most important that could engage the attention of the House, as would be seen when it appeared that one-third of the population of the sister kingdom and one-tenth of the population of the United Kingdom had emigrated. Allusion had been made to the question of tenant-right as bearing on the present distress of Ireland. Now it appeared that Ulster, where tenant-right prevailed, had contributed to the whole emigration during the last ten years 27 per cent, while Connaught, in which no
 816 817 818
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to inform the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty that before the House proceeded to discuss the details of the Navy Estimates he should ask for some explanation on certain points connected with the Navy; and he wished to know, Whether it would be more convenient to do so on the Question that Mr. Speaker leave the Chair, or after the noble Lord's usual statement? He wished also to ask—as his remarks might probably lead to some debate—whether an arrangement could be made by which the House might know with certainty when the Navy Estimates would come on?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member for the King's County might be congratulated, in the first place, on the tone and temper with which he had introduced to the notice of the House, an important subject; and, in the next place, upon the effect which the debate seemed to have produced. Whatever might be the immediate result of the discussion, his hon. Friend would, he thought, be entitled to take credit to himself for having performed an important service to his country. In some of the criticisms to which his Motion had been subjected, he was not disposed to concur. He could not, for instance, agree with the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken (Sir George Grey) that the question, whether the emigration of the people of Ireland across the Atlantic was to be viewed with regret, depended wholly upon the circumstance of their being better or worse for the change. There were other considerations to be taken into account, beyond the mere consequence to the individuals who left their native shores. It was, no doubt, a pleasing reflection to think that there was a large number of our fellow-countrymen who, having been in a state of great misery and distress at home, were now placed in a position of comparative comfort. But the question was not only individual but national; and we must not look only to the condition of those who were gone, but to that also of those who remained behind. We must look not only to physical, but to moral considerations, and taking that view of the subject, ask ourselves whether England and Ireland have been such gainers by the emigration from the latter, as some hon. Gentlemen seem inclined to believe. He assented to the proposition that those who attained better wages in England and America, were benefited by the change, but he did not admit that they necessarily benefited those whom they left behind them. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) in his extremely able and very instructive speech, seemed to take it for granted that that of which Ireland chiefly stood in need, was to be relieved of her surplus population, and that the greater the number of those whom she was unable to support left her shores, the better was it for those who stayed, inasmuch as wages would then be distri-
 808 "Do you think emigration has had any effect upon the prosperity or otherwise of Ireland?" "I think it tends to facilitate ultimately a better system of agriculture; it tends to benefit ultimately the labouring classes who remain; but I have no doubt that its immediate action is unfavourable; its immediate action must be to throw the support of the aged and infirm upon the poorer and a smaller class of the community. The large amount taken by emigrants, to that extent diminishes the capital of the country. If the emigration consisted entirely of the poor it might be beneficial, but it is, to a certain extent, at present a capitalist emigration. So nearly as I can calculate it, the amount of annual loss from emigration at this moment cannot be much less than three quarters of a million." 809 810 811 The Gardeners' Chronicle, 812 813 814 815
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : What I meant to say was that if any hon. Member would propose the re-appointment of the Committee and would state the order of reference proposed, we should look at such a Motion with a strong disposition and desire to adopt anything which, while it did not commit the Government to any pecuniary obligations, held out the prospect of devising means likely to improve the condition of Ireland.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, whatever differences of opinion may have been expressed in the course of this discussion with reference to particular details, everybody must agree that the subject is one of the deepest possible interest; and also in the fact, that I am happy to observe, that the debate has been conducted in the most temperate and creditable manner.
 822 823 824 825 826 827
 MR. COWPER  submitted that the hon. Member for the City of London had not made out such a  primâ facie 845 primâ facie
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Warrant referred to by the hon. Baronet did not apply to Militia Officers, whose allowances were fixed according to the Militia Regulations. No Circular issued from the War Office for the government of Officers in the Army applied to Militia Officers unless there was a special direction to that effect.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : It was not my intention to offer any opposition either to the Motion or the Amendment now before the House. I cannot, indeed, altogether deny
 895 896 897 898 899 900 901 902
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had not intended to take any part in the discussion, having understood that the Government had consented to the appointment of a Committee and also the Amendment of the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter); but the hon. Member who spoke last seemed to desire to make the Order of Referenee very wide and the Committee very strong. Considering the subjects which the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour) wished to be added, it would also be desirable that the duration of this Parliament should be extended for another five or six years, because he wished not only to discuss middle-class education, but to consider the union of parishes, and, of course, the pulling down of churches, which would then, of course, become unnecessary. To consider these subjects the Committee would certainly require a very ample allowance of time. Coming, however, to the subject more immediately before the House, he must remark that during this discussion he had heard one or two very curious statements. They used to be told that certificated masters were necessary in order to impart a higher degree of instruction than the old dames were able to give. But when Canon Moseley parted from the Privy Council he left, as a legacy, his last report, in which he stated that unless they could manage to keep the children at school beyond the age of nine or ten, he was bound to tell them that certificated masters could not give as good an education as the dames, and, therefore, the high training of the masters would be a waste of money. In some years after that, every effort was
 917 918 919 We 920
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, it seemed to be taken for granted that it would be a
 924
 MR. COWPER  said, he respected the motives of his hon. Friend, and felt as strongly as any one that the great drawback on public improvements which he had pointed out deserved the most careful consideration. He (Mr. Cowper) felt deeply for the suffering and great hardship which were inflicted upon the working classes whenever a large number of their houses were pulled down, but it was a necessity in the present improvement. He would most cheerfully give his hon. Friend or any other person £100 if he could suggest any means by which this evil to individuals could be obviated. But his hon. Friend had been unable to suggest any remedy. There was a physical impossibility to be overcome. The Bill did not take any more ground or houses than was absolutely required for the courts of law. The number of houses proposed to be taken were 384. His hon. Friend had alluded to the Standing Order of the House of Lords, which was rather difficult to comply with, because in ordering a Return of the houses occupied by the labouring classes to be made the Standing Order did not define what was meant by the labouring classes. When this Bill was under consideration in 1860 the Return gave the number of the labouring classes displaced at 2,300; but the number mentioned by his hon. Friend—3,000—might be the accurate one; at all events, it might be taken to range from 2,500 to 3,000. It had been suggested that the Government, in pulling down the houses that were wanted for the Courts of Justice, ought to erect other houses for the reception of the labouring persons who might be dispossessed. But to do that it would be necessary to buy as much more additional land as would suffice for houses for those poor persons. To clear land on which to erect houses for 3,000 persons to live in, the Government must take 100 more houses. They must turn of 1,500 labouring men for this purpose, and then these 1,500 would require fresh houses to be built for them. And so on till a much larger clearance had been made. There was really no remedy, for the new houses would not be ready for two
 930
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was impossible to hear without great sympathy of any inconvenience or evil to the classes who would be displaced by improvements of this kind, or without great regret that these and other public improvements should be attended by temporary injury to those classes. But the House would, he thought, be disposed to take a practical and not merely a sentimental view of such subjects, and to consider them with reference to all the questions which they involved. If any one could suggest a means of carrying out metropolitan improvements, without incidental inconvenience to the classes immediately affected, it would receive the most anxious and careful consideration, but to delay all improvements until such a plan had been devised, would be most injurious to the very classes in whose interests this Motion had been made, as the practical result would be, that such improvements would not be undertaken. It was perfectly consistent in the hon. Member for Worcestershire, or anyone who thought that the proposed concentration of the courts was a mere architectural fancy, and a measure for which there was no public necessity, to support such a Motion as this; but he regretted that those who appreciated the nature of this great public improvement, and desired that it should be carried out, should favour a step the certain effect of which would be to defeat the Bill. It was impossible that this Instruction could be given to the Committee, and the tendency of the proposal was to defeat the Bill. For the rejection of the measure on this ground no sufficient reason had been assigned. During the last forty years great improvements had been made in the metropolis, and every one had admitted, that in the long run their effect had been beneficial, not only to the public interests, for the sake of which they were undertaken, but to the very classes who had been displaced by them. As a consequence of such improvements, there had grown up round London houses adapted to the accommodation of the labouring classes, in much healthier localities than those which they had previously occupied; and thus, although there might have been some temporary overcrowding in the neighbourhoods in which works were undertaken, the final result had been that
 935 936
 MR. HENLEY  said, the end of the hon. and learned Gentleman's speech differed very much from the beginning. At first the hon. and learned Gentleman laid about him right and left at everybody who wished to provide for these unfortunate people, as doing so indirectly to obstruct the Bill. Towards the end, however, he threw in a little soft sawder about humane motives, and all that sort of thing. It was quite clear that the Government, thinking this a desirable site, pounced down upon this vast block of buildings, and without any consideration for the unhappy people who lived there were going to sweep them away, simply telling them that in the long run—he did not tell them when—but which might be in twenty or thirty years, when they got to Kensal Green, or some other place of the sort, they would be better off. It was said that a different course had been taken in the case of the railways. Certainly, a railway and a court of law were two different things, and he did not suppose that the lawyers would like to carry these unfortunate people in cabs night and morning to and from their work. But, in requiring the railways to run cheap trains, Parliament had done what was strictly practicable. People liked to live as handy to their work as possible, and the cheap trains which brought workmen back again to the spot from which they were driven formed as good an arrangement as could be made for their convenience. It was said that nothing could be done, unless you pulled down other houses, and that then there would be more displacements, more overcrowding, and so on  ad infinitum. 937
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that would also be turning a Committee appointed for a totally different purpose into one of general inquiry.
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped that the noble Lord would assent to the proposed Amendment, as an investigation of the matter would satisfy everybody.
 MR. KINNAIRD  rose to move that it be an Instruction to the Select Committee on the Courts of Justice Concentration (Site) Bill that they have power to make provision for appropriating or obtaining sites, and for the erection of lodging houses or other suitable dwellings for the working classes proposed to be displaced by the said Bill. After the long debate on education he would not detain them with many remarks; but this was really a kindred subject to that which they had just been discussing. After all, it was no use spending large sums on the education of the people unless they also did something to secure them proper habitations. He had not the slightest desire to say a word against his hon. and learned Friend's admirable measure for the concentration of the Law Courts nor had he any objection to raise to the site. He believed the site was very well adapted to the object, and that the erection of the Courts there would open up a neighbourhood which needed improvement. The promoters, however, had been guilty of some neglect towards the poor people who resided in that quarter. Railway companies and other parties who applied to Parliament were
 927 928
 MR. LYGON  said, he had served on a Select Committee which sat to consider one of the prototypes of this Bill in 1862. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) admitted that this improvement would inflict a large amount of suffering and misery, and yet he rejected the instruction of the hon. Member for Perth. The right hon. Gentleman having satisfied himself that the improvements now contemplated were indispensable, ought to have turned his attention to the subject of finding household accommodation for the people to be removed, and ought not, now that the matter was brought to his notice, to answer the arguments of hon. Members in an offhand and jaunty sort of way, by offering £100 to anyone who would suggest a remedy, and by talking about the law of supply and demand being a remedy. The present scheme for imposing an immense taxation and a large amount of suffering upon the metropolis was un-
 932
 LORD ROBBRT CECIL : Sir, I am not about to enter into any lengthened controversy with the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down on the subject of the conscience clause. I do not entirely agree on that point with my right hon. Friend who made this Motion. I am not so satisfied as he is as to the good effects it is calculated to produce, and I do not conceal from myself so much as I think he does the difficulties which accompany it. But I would remind the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of this Department that the existing system derives its whole energy for the spread of education from the co-operation of religous zeal; and that if you choose to accept the co-operation of that zeal you must accept with it all the conditions which it involves. Men do not care to teach a boiled-down, diluted, colourless religion. They care to teach that religion in which they themselves believe. They will not teach a mere system of morality, divested of the cardinal truths upon which they hold that their own salvation depends. This is not the place for me to argue whether such a belief is right or wrong; but I want to point out to the right hon. Gentleman and this
 903 904 905 906 quasi quasi imperium in imperio. quasi 907 908 quasi 909 910
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, the real difficulty in the case was this—that they had deputed to two different bodies the performance of one and the same function. It was for this reason that they had only one scheme before them, which they must either accept or reject. They had told the Metropolitan Board of Works that the sewage was theirs to give away; but they had not given them the necessary powers to carry out the works; they had to come to Parliament for these. And it was not worth while for any promoter to go to the expense of making surveys and coming before Parliament, unless the Metropolitan Board had conceded the sewage to him. Consequently the Board had acted as a sieve, and had strained out every promoter and every scheme except one, and they were saying to Messrs. Hope and Napier, "We cannot give you the power to carry out the work, but we will allow no other promoter except you to go before Parliament in order to obtain those powers." The concession of the sewage was in their hands; they had given it to the promoters of this Bill, who had made a survey, and were now before the House. The House, therefore, had no opportunity of choosing any scheme which might be more advantageous to the metropolis. With respect to the rivalry on the part of the City Corporation which had been alluded to, he must express his firm conviction that no such rivalry existed. The object of the hon. Member for the City (Mr. Crawford), as well as of the hon. and learned
 842 843
 MR. AYRTON  trusted the hon. Member for the City (Mr. Crawford) would not press his Motion to a division. It was impossible for the House to deal with the question of the sewage of London on that occassion—it had only to consider how it could deal practically with the Bill, and he submitted that it should appoint what was called "a hybrid Committee," some of the Members being selected on account of their special taste for sewage questions, the others being appointed in the ordinary manner of Gentlemen who where perfectly disinterested and impartial. Such a Committee as that he proposed in the Amendment of which he had given notice would form the best possible tribunal to which to refer the subject, and he had no doubt it would arrive at satisfactory results. If they were to have any real practical inquiry, the sooner the better, and he therefore objected to the proposal of the hon. Member (Mr. Crawford) to postpone the second reading for six weeks. Without going into the merits of the question, he trusted the House would adopt, as it had done in other similar cases, the only practical way of working out the subject; and
 844
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the remarks made by the noble Lord who had just sat down might induce the House to believe that hon. Gentlemen sitting on the Opposition benches only, were averse to the granting of money for educational purposes, except by Act of Parliament. But in that view of the question he cordially concurred. He had on a former occasion contented himself with entering a protest against the practice of making educational grants, and had patiently awaited the time when a better feeling would take possession of the House, and when that assembly would return to those constitutional powers which had been referred to in the course of his speech by the noble Lord. He did not certainly agree with the references which had been made by the noble Lord to his right hon. Friend the Member for Calne. It appeared to him that the educational grant, which, as they all knew, began with a very small one, had crept—for he would not say grown—up in an unsatisfactory, skulking manner, instead of by bold, healthy, and vigorous strides, and the result was, that they had introduced into this country, by the intense cleverness of a number of persons, an elaborate system of State—or what its promoters were pleased to denominate—national education, while masking and covering their ideas in popular opinions. The grant had increased from £30,000 to a sum bordering upon £1,000,000, and with this increase had crept in numerous abuses, for the subject had been dealt with from the first with studied artifice and concealment of purpose. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Lowe) on accepting office had found these difficulties to deal with, and if any Minister had the power of granting £1,000,000 over the country, it was impossible for him to attempt any correction of abuses without becoming the most unpopular man in the kingdom. If he were told that his right hon. Friend had made himself unpopular, he could not but regard the circumstance as a proof that his right hon. Friend had performed his duty. He thought that his right hon. Friend had been eminently successful in checking the abuses which had crept in, and in laying the foundation of a better system, and he believed that that Gentleman had rendered more service to the country than any Minister who occupied the Treasury Bench
 911
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, the attention of the Government had been called to this debate, and they rejoiced to find that there were Spanish statesmen who were alive to the enormous evils which resulted from the continuance of the slave
 847
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that a construction had been put upon the Motion by the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken, which it was not intended to bear, inas-
 885 886 887
 MR. LEATHAM  said, the Bill as it stood was for the purpose of enabling a certain plot to be built upon for the purposes of the New Courts of Justice, but it might so happen that some portion of that very plot might be applicable to the purpose mentioned in the Motion; and there was no reason why the Committee might not have the power of devoting such surplus land to that purpose. He thought the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) got rid of the objections of the noble Lord.
 MR. DOULTON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : It would seem from the speech of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets that the State has been the founder of education in the country, and has been doing something which entitles it to interfere in the management of the education of the country. Now, I entirely repudiate any such notion. The education of the country has been founded mainly on the voluntary efforts of the people. The hon. Member for Sheffield cheered the statement that four-fifths of the grant went to the clergy of the Established Church; but the fact is, that they have been the founders, and supporters, and maintainers of the education of the country. When we are told that 11,000 or 12,000 schools are neglected by the State, and that grants are not given to them, it shows that the system of education is a voluntary one, to be supplemented by the State, and that the State has abstained from exercising any direct control, and is contented that the system shall be voluntary; that the State will aid, but will not take upon itself the control or management of education. Of course, to a certain extent it must interfere. It must see that the school houses are of a proper description, that the schools are under proper discipline, and
 912 913 "And also into the best mode of extending the benefits of Government inspection and the Parliamentary grant to schools at present unassisted by the State."
 MR. WHALLEY  observed, that a large grant, amounting to some £316,000, had been made last year for the administration of the educational system first proposed by Lord Derby, but he was afraid that a large part of it would go to the convent school teaching. He wished also to observe that he had read in the office of the Educational Board a book purporting to be a history of England, published he believed by Messrs. Burns and Lambert, Roman Catholic publishers, and a more complete travestie and perversion of every important fact in the history of England it was scarcely possible to conceive, and yet thousands of these books were constantly circulated under the sanction of the Education Department. It was, he thought, matter for regret that such books should be so circulated.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he had received a communication from Mr. Caird in November last respecting a close time for Herrings in Scotland, and whether any steps have been taken in the matter, and, if so, what steps?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  hoped that the terms of the Order of Reference would be sufficiently wide to enable the Committee to decide what the functions of a Minister of Education ought to be. The Privy Council was intrusted not only with the annual grants for educational purposes, but with the sums yearly voted for purposes connected with science and art. He could not understand why a departmental division should any longer exist, and why the duties at present intrusted to the Department of Science and Art should not be confided to the Minister for Education. The Committee might also inquire advantageously whether great educational departments such as those of South Kensington and the British Museum should not be intrusted to the same hands, the House under the present system being obliged to gain its in-
 914 915 916
 MR. BUTT  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is intended in the present Session to act on the recommendation of the Common Law and Chancery Commission, by introducing a Bill to amend the practice and procedure of the Irish Courts of Common Law?
 MR. SPEAKER  informed the hon. Member that he could not move the Amendment at present. The state of the question was, that no Amendment having been proposed to the first branch of the original Motion, that part would stand and would have to be submitted to the House in its complete form. But the question now before the House was whether the words proposed by the hon. Member for Berkshire should be added, and if any hon. Member proposed to move an Amendment upon those words it would be open to the consideration of the House.
 MR. HENNESSY  moved an Amendment that he thought would meet the formal objection of the noble Lord. He moved that instead of the words "have power to make provision," the words "to inquire into the practicability and expediency of making provision" be substituted.
 MR. HENNESSY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that that debate
 923
 MR. NORRIS  said, that the whole question of the utilization of the sewage was beset with difficulties and uncertainties. There were many plans proposed, and he altogether objected to the House being tied down to the consideration of one plan and no other. He hoped the House would refuse to read the Bill a second time at present.
 MR. WALTER , who had given notice to move an Amendment to add, "and also into the best mode of extending the benefits of Government Inspection and the Parliamentary Grant to schools at present unassisted by the State," said: I rise, Sir, to move the Amendment which stands in my name to the Motion of my right hon. Friend who has just sat down. It was my original wish, and probably would, in some respects, have been more satisfactory to the House that, instead of a branch of inquiry, my Motion should have formed the substance of a separate reference. But it appeared to me, considering the extraordinary pressure of business at this time of the year, that I should scarcely succeed in inducing the House to grant two separate Committees to be working together at the same time on two branches of the subject of education; and, therefore, seeing the Notice given by the hon. Baronet the Member for Devonshire (Sir Lawrence Palk) for the grouping of small parishes into districts, I thought no time was to be lost, and the best thing I could do was to confer with my right hon. Friend, and see if I could persuade him to adopt my Amendment as an addition to his Motion. He was kind enough to signify his assent, and I have been given to understand, I believe on the best authority, that it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to offer any opposition to this branch of the inquiry being undertaken by the Committee. If that be so, I have to thank them by anticipation for this act of courtesy, and I shall endeavour to repay it by abstaining from any lengthened argument or statement of my own views, except so far as to notice some objections which have lately been raised to them. I shall best discharge my duty by stating very shortly the reasons which led me to take the course I now adopt as the most proper for myself to propose, and most deserving the sanction of the House. 859 860 861 862 "Though I am a strenuous advocate in favour of trained teachers—for I am on the commit-mittee of two training institutions—yet I cannot see the justice of withholding help from those schools which can produce results equal, if not superior, to those produced by certificated teachers." "There are three schools in my district, which would, I think, now satisfy the requirements of the Revised Code with regard to examination. One of them, needing the grant, would, I believe, pass as high a percentage as the best school under certificated masters. Two more schools might, I think, be brought up to the mark, if encouraged by the prospect of receiving a grant. I beg to remark that I have recently attended the inspec-
 863 "It is my opinion that a considerable proportion of the unassisted schools in this district might satisfy the requirements of the Revised Code. There are but six parishes which receive Government grants and have certificated teachers, and these have by no means the best schools. In fact, in my last Report, I placed but one in the first, and two more in the lowest of the three classes into which my schools are divided in the Return which I make to the Bishop. By far the best schools in the deanery, with one exception, have no assistance from Government, and are under excellent but uncertificated teachers." "I would again express a hope that Government will not continue to insist on the employment of a certificated teacher as a condition for receiving its aid. There are many schools in your lordship's diocess unfairly, I think, shut out from all Government help, because they have not the funds to employ a certificated teacher, and thus they are punished for their poverty. If the principle of the Revised Code be aid according to results, surely Government should leave the managers of schools at liberty as to the means by which they will obtain an efficient school. If certificated teachers generally produce the best results they will generally be employed, and if not they ought not to be employed. The attempt to force managers to employ them is, I think, both unwise and unfair." "Our parish is one of many in which the principal inhabitants are tenants of small farms and the whole expense of the school is defrayed by the rector, with the assistance of a few subscriptions from non-resident landowners. A sufficient salary for a certificated master cannot be raised, so we have an uncertificated one, who is content with his cottage, £30 a year, and the children's pence—say, £10 more. Some years ago the rector put himself to some expense to get his schoolmaster 'certificated,' but immediately he heard of a larger salary to be obtained elsewhere he gave the rector notice to leave." 864 "The object of the Parliamentary grant is not merely to pay, but to improve the schools of the country." "The chief 'result' which the nation expects from a school is to turn foolish, disorderly children into obedient, sensible children compared with this, those other 'results' of reading, writing, and arithmetic, are of secondary importance." "Every school in the country, good or bad, will obtain something out of the public purse." "An Inspector's impressions, after spending a few hours in a school once in the year, cannot be a sufficient test of the moral suitableness of the teacher for his office." "In France, Holland, Switzerland, and Germany, it is thought necessary to make a certificate of this kind a  sine qua non 865 866 "The chief result which the nation expects from a school is to turn foolish, disorderly children into obedient, sensible children; compared with this, those other results of reading, writing, and arithmetic are of secondary importance." "I would add that I believe there to be a growing feeling among the gentry, farmers, and clergy of this deanery, against the new sprung up race of certificated teachers, in that (at all events, in agricultural districts) they unfit the children for their natural position and probable calling in life, without fitting them for any other; and that they make discipline, good conduct, obedience, moral tone and training, second to (what is, after all, among three-fourths) a smattering of many things, a proficiency in none, and even that followed by a speedy forgetfulness of almost all." 867 "At Boyne Hill, the boys' school is still, as hitherto, in good order, and attended by an intelligent class of boys, and I am glad to say that there is every reason to suppose that from this time forth, the girl's school will be regularly inspected, the lady who volunteers as teacher having made up her mind to go through the examination in order to possess herself of a certificate, that the school may enjoy the same advantages with respect to Government, as if it were not so peculiarly circumstanced as it is, under her care." 868 "The lady in question did not go up for examination. When the Government grant to the boys' school was reduced by the new regulation, she offered to do so; but I thought she should first ask her relations, and they did not quite approve, so it was not done." dux femina facti. 869
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would withdraw his Motion on the understanding that the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets should be accepted.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he had been requested by the Corporation of the City of London, by the ratepayers of several wards and parishes in the City, and also by several ratepayers without the City, to move that the second reading of this Bill be postponed with special reference to the inquiry of the Committee to be proposed by the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdon (Lord Robert Montagu). This was not a question of contention between the Board of Works and the City of London, as had been alleged, for he believed the opposition to the Bill at its present stage would receive the support of several representatives of metropolitan constituencies. He hoped the House would consider that this was a question on which differences of opinion might fairly exist, and which might be reasonably discussed, without supposing that private influences or private feelings actuated either the City of London or the Metropolitan Board of Works in the matter. The hon. Gen-
 836 The Standard 837
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I know not whether I should not do more wisely, and certainly I should best consult my own inclinations, if I were to allow this question to pass in silence on my part. But I am unwilling altogether to see what I cannot but regard as the commencement of the undoing of the work that has been recently accomplished, and which I regard with great interest, without interposing a few words to point out to the House what I think it could scarcely have gathered from the speech of the right hon. Baronet—the exact proposition that is before us. But before doing so I would first say a few words in answer to the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter). Without following that hon. Member into all the details which he has placed before the House, I will just state over again very briefly what is the principle to which the Committee of Council has hitherto adhered—the principle of extending no assistance except to schools under certificated masters. The
 870 871 872 873 874 in commendam 875 876 877 878 879 880 employés, 881 882 883 884
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  thought that if the limit laid down by the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) were accepted the Committee would be of little use. Not that he wondered at any hon. Member endeavouring to limit the Committee, because, if appointed, it would have a very difficult piece of business before it. It would have to kill two birds with one stone, and he should have been glad if the original idea of his hon. Friend (Mr. Walter) could have been carried out, and the Motions of the right hon. Gentleman opposite and the hon. Member for Berkshire kept separate, and two different Committees appointed. The right hon. Member for Calne seemed to think that there was no great reason for the inquiry of the Member for Droitwich, but
 921 922
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  denied that this was a question between the City of London and the Metropolitan Board of Works, as alleged by the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite). It was a question which concerned the ratepayers, whom the Metropolitan Board had an unlimited power of taxing. It had been alleged by scientific men that this sewage was a most valuable commodity, and the Metropolitan Board, in their wisdom, had taken a great deal of time to determine what was the fit and proper mode of dealing with it. But that deliberation seemed now to be compensated by their excessive hurry in deciding upon a contract which was to shut up this question for a period of fifty years. What he asked for was further inquiry; and that not for the City of London, but for those who were paying £4,000,000 of money to which they had been rated, to carry out a system of drainage now incomplete, inasmuch as the low-level sewer, which was to be the principal channel by which the system was to be carried out, had only just been begun. A short delay, therefore, with respect to a scheme which one of its supporters had stated to be most chimerical would not be unreasonable. [Mr. CAIRD: I called it a problematical scheme.] Well, then, suppose this problematical scheme were to get half way through—suppose the sewage had been carried half way down to the Maplin Sands, and then they were induced to pump back again a commodity which Baron Liebeg and other great authorities had stated to be so valuable, what would be thought of it? He was of opinion that the House ought to take some time to consider the plan.
 MR. TITE  said, the proposition before the House was whether this Bill should be read a second time and sent to a Committee upstairs, and he should support the Motion. The question of the utilization of the sewage had been long under the consideration of the Board of Works, and in 1862 they had advertized for tenders and begun to consider various plans and schemes; but their action had been interrupted by the inquiries instituted by the House in the Committees of 1863 and 1864. The matter lay in a very small compass. The propositions reported upon by the Committee of the Board were twelve, but they finally culminated into two. One was the suggestion or proposition of Mr. Ellis, and the other was that of Messrs. Hope and Napier. In 1862, the latter gentlemen had taken the pains and gone to the expense of introducing a Bill supporting their system; but Mr. Ellis, he believed, had never taken any steps at all in the matter. The question was a very simple one, but it turned upon very grave and important questions. In the evidence before the Committee they had the most extraordinary differences of opinion. On the one hand it was said that it would require 500,000 or 600,000 acres to utilize the sewage of London, amounting to the enormous quantity of 80,000,000 gallons in the twenty-four hours; a very eminent gentleman on the other side stated that 30,000 acres would be quite sufficient; and the Committee itself, over which the noble Lord opposite presided, shrank from coming to any conclusion. In the meanwhile the Metropolitan Board of Works resolved to judge for themselves, and they
 838 839 locus standi
 MR. WATKIN  said, when the right hon. Gentleman professed his readiness to offer £100 to any one who would suggest a remedy, he felt disposed to claim the reward. This was, no doubt, a very serious question. The public improvements which had been carried out during the last four or five years, and which were in contemplation with the sanction of Parliament, had displaced, or would displace, some 50,000 persons. The right hon. Gentleman talked of supply and demand, and seemed to think that ultimately things would shake down into their right places. But who could estimate the enormous
 931
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  did not at all think that the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken would earn the £100 offered by the Chief Commissioner of Works by suggesting that the Equity Courts should be left at Lincoln's Inn and that the Common Law Courts should be built on the Thames Embankment. He regretted, however, that the noble scheme now proposed should be marred by this one blot—that a large number of the labouring classes should be displaced, while no attempt was made to remedy the evil. But, in truth, as was clear from the observations made on a former evening by the Attorney General, the attention of Government had not been directed to the subject. They thought that the clearing away of bad and unwholesome dwellings would be in itself a benefit. At the east end of London such improvements had greatly aggravated the evil of overcrowding. Mr. Liddle, the medical officer of the Whitechapel district stated in his Report that in consequence of houses being pulled down for the Black-wall Railway extension line the number of houses had decreased by 148, but the population had only diminished, to the extent of seventy-four persons, and he suggested that the inhabitants being driven into already crowded houses in the vicinity, the consequent overcrowding might in some measure account for the increased rate of mortality during the last two years. This testimony as to the effect of the destruction of the dwellings of the poor
 933 "The consequences of the destruction of the dwellings of the poor (for the formation of railways) as seen in my district, are additional subletting of rooms, and that to a great extent, and, of course, the crowding of the poor together more dangerously in the same house; then the building of additional rooms in the back yards of old houses—in some cases three additional rooms having been added to the House. The small and wretched spaces unoccupied before being now smaller, and here and there quite filled up, of course there is still less air." 934
 MR. F. S. POWELL  expressed his great satisfaction that the Government had consented to grant this Committee, and for two reasons. First, because it was of considerable importance for the good working of our institutions that all branches of our executive Government should be subject to the most rigid supervision of the House of Commons. Secondly, because it was feared some years ago that the managers and masters of schools might prove too strong for the central body, it was not less necessary to guard against the central authority proving too strong for Parliament. It was true, as had been said by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), that the subjects to be referred to this Committee were within the scope of the inquiry of the Royal Commission; but it was equally certain that the Report of that Commission gave no complete or satisfactory information as to the respective functions of the President and Vice President of the Committee of Council. The Commission reported that the Lord President was  "ex officio 893 894
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, he had received a letter from Mr. Caird as Chairman of the Fishery Commission, and he had communicated with the Lord Advocate, who would give notice of a Bill to carry out the recommendations of the Commission.
 SIR HENRY STRACEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Royal Warrant of 21st November, 1864, giving the Officers of the Army when travelling without troops the following allowances—namely, General Officers, 20s.; Field Officers, 15s.; and Captains and Subalterns, 10s. per diem—applies in like manner to Officers of Militia, no intimation to that effect having yet reached them?
 MR. CAIRD  said, the question before the House, as submitted by his hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Crawford), appeared to him to be this—whether the House would put a stop to the only practical scheme that had yet been submitted to any Committee of that House for the profitable and useful disposal of the sewage of the City of London. The Committee which sat last year, presided over by the noble Lord opposite (Lord Robert Montagu) had censured the Metropolitan Board of Works for their inactivity in not taking steps for utilizing the sewage of London, and it was in consequence of the passage which appeared in the Report of that Committee, animadverting on the conduct of the Board of Works in this matter, that that Board at last made great efforts to extend their investigation of this subject, the result of which had been the adoption by them of the measure now before the House. The first question which the House had to consider in connection with the sewage of the metropolis was how they were to get rid of that which had become so dangerous to the health of the people. It had been proved in evidence that, owing to the reflux of the tide and between the action up and down, the whole progress made by the sewage in the course of twenty-four hours towards the sea was but one mile. It thus followed that from London to Gravesend, a distance of about thirty miles, they had thirty days' sewage going backwards and forwards in the Thames; and it became a question of the greatest necessity for the House to consider in what way they could entirely rid the river of that abomination. Now the Bill before the House would remove the sewage of the north side of London, entirely out of the valley of the Thames, and deliver it into the German Ocean at a point where it could no longer prove obnoxious to the inhabitants of the metropolis. As to the question of the value of the sewage, which was of very great importance, whatever different opinions there might be among
 840 2d. 2d. 841
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I rise to move, pursuant to notice, for a Select Committee to inquire into the Constitution of the Committee of Council on Education, and the system under which the business of the office is conducted. I feel bound to renew in the present Session the Motion I made last year, in the shape of an Amendment to a Motion for another Committee, and again to make an appeal to the Government and the House whether the time has not arrived, when they ought to consider the present constitution of the Committee of Council on Education, and whether it is such as to enable it satisfactorily to discharge the important duties devolving upon it. In making this Motion, I think it only respectful to the House to state what are the objects which I have in view, and what objects I have not in view. Neither in the observations I now address to the House, nor in the proceedings before the Committee I propose to appoint, have I any desire to re-open the questions of the Revised Code, or of the Inspectors' Reports, or of the Endowment Minute, or any other of the various matters connected with the education of the people, which have from time to time been the subjects of discussion and debate in this House. I have two objects in view, and two only. The first is such a re-organiza-
 848 849 850 851 "If the time had arrived for charging a responsible Minister with the duties of instruction, it appeared to him well worthy of consideration, whether it would not be well to supersede the Privy Council altogether in this matter, and to have a Minister as the head of a Department who should have no other duties to perform, and who should be, in fact, responsible for the education of the people."—[3  Hansard, "If they wished to have a Department well conducted they should rather place it in the hands of one than of two ministers, however able; and he certainly did hope that this Bill was intended to delegate all the duties connected with Education substantially to the one officer who was to represent the Board in the House of Commons. It was quite enough work for one man, and that work would never be well done until it was confided to one man only."—[3  Hansard, 852 "I think that if you were to follow out the present system, with its local and denominational subdivision, and with its detailed appropriations, it would break down at its centre unless you provided a much greater establishment than either Parliament or the country would be willing in the long run to agree to." 853 854 855 856 naive 857 858
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he should not have risen to reply had it not been for some portions of the speech of the right hon. Member for Calne. As to the powers of the Committee for which he moved—as to what they might do or not do—they had heard more than was necessary. The order of reference was now before the House, and that once settled the Committee would of course be bound by its terms. He wished—before adverting more particularly to the speech of the right hon. Member for Calne—to express his satisfaction at the tone of the Vice President of the Committee of Council, which, if persevered in, might do something to produce a more favourable feeling towards the present system. The right hon. Gentleman had, however, used one expression in reference to himself personally, which he thought somewhat hard. He said he had very carefully avoided the subject of rating; but he was not open to the rebuke, and he had never shirked the question. He had laid his views with respect to it over and over again before the House, and had avowed it to be his belief—even at the risk of painful differences from those with whom he had acted during a long political life—that a system of rating was the best for the country. Whether, however, it was or was not the best system, it did not seem as yet to have found favour with the House of Commons, and being desirous, as he was, to see education extended to all parts of the country, he naturally tried to find some other mode of achieving that
 925 926
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, it appeared to him that no greater or worse abuse in regard to the rural parishes of England had been inflicted for a great number of years than that inflicted by the Committee of Council on Education. The
 888 889 890 891 892
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that at present the Government had two Law Bills—one in the Lords and the other in this House—and it would not be convenient to introduce a third measure at the present moment.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been drawn to the debate in the Spanish Senate on the 23r d of last month, on the question of declaring the Slave Trade piracy, and whether any Instructions have been sent to Her Majesty's Minister at Madrid on the subject?
 SIR WILLIAM RUSSELL , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that the Committee which sat last year on the sewage question received a large amount of evidence, and several schemes were brought under their notice. He (Sir William Russell) sat upon that Committee, and after carefully investigating the whole subject, the conviction at which he arrived was that the only practical scheme was the one which proposed to utilize the sewage of the metropolis by by gravitation alone. There were other schemes, some of which suggested pumping, others the use of tanks; but the evidence tended to show that wherever pumps had been used, even to a small degree, the expenses had been so enormous that they had to abandon this plan and ultimately resort to gravitation. At Croydon they lost £10,000 by the use of tanks and other means, and at last had to resort to gravitation. In his opinion, the only practical scheme before them was the one sanctioned by the Metropolitan Board of Works; and believing this he appeared in this House to advocate the adoption of the present Bill. He could not but believe that every Member of the House was fully impressed with the local and national importance of this question. It was locally important because it had become necessary for the health of the metropolis that some measures should be taken for removing from the Thames, and, if possible, for utilizing the sewage. Formerly it used to pass into the river in different parts and in small quantities, and it was even then very injurious; but it was now still more injurious, because it had all been concentrated at Barking. After having spent vast sums of money in connection with this question, the Metropolitan Board had now brought the sewage down to Barking, and unless steps were taken to carry it on from there, and, if possible, to utilize it, there would be great danger and injury to the metropolis. There should be no delay, it was absolutely necessary that whatever steps were taken should be taken at once. He could not commend too highly the noble Lord who presided over the Committee of last year (Lord Robert Montagu) for the part he had taken and for the Bill he had introduced to deal with the general subject of
 833 834 835
 SIR WILLIAM RUSSELL  also said, that he was willing to accept it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It seems to me that if the doctrine embodied in the Motion before the House were to be carried into effect it would prevent any great improvement whatever being made in the metropolis, because no great improvement can be made without pulling down small houses, and thus displacing,  pro tanto, 938
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : It seems to me that the proposition even so modified would be quite foreign to the purposes of the Committee, and therefore I do not feel at liberty to assent to it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the House desired to approach all subjects such as the present without anything like party spirit; it was, therefore, with regret he heard the insinuation of the hon. and learned Gentleman, that law reform was made a matter of competition between one side of the House and the other. The practical tendency of any change that might be introduced, and whether the administration of justice would be improved or impeded thereby, were the grounds to which the House ought properly to direct its attention, and he could not see what that had to do with political differences between one side of the House and the other. He gave every credit to his hon. and learned Friend for the sincerity of his desire to amend the law, and he was confident that on these and other occasions the true course was to do justice to each other's views and intentions. The present Bill consisted of eight clauses, nearly all of which dealt with different subjects. Without anticipating the discussion upon the Bill, he might say that if the measure were confined to the first two and the eighth clauses, there might be very little difference of opinion in relation to them; but as to every one of the others, he felt very considerable doubt. The third clause especially, enabling the accused parties in criminal cases to become witnesses in their own behalf, of course subject to the usual
 942
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that before these Bills were committed, he would endeavour to obtain from the Government an opportunity when they might receive that attention in a full House which the hon. Gentleman wished.
 MR. CLIFFORD  rose to move that the Chairman be directed to move the House that leave be given to bring in a Bill for the abolition of Fines for non-attendance at a place of Divine worship on Sunday. The hon. Member said, that the legislation on this subject dated from the time of Queen Elizabeth, early in whose reign a law was passed, providing that everybody should forfeit a small sum who did not on the Sabbath attend the parish church. A still more stringent measure was, however, passed in the 23rd year of the same reign, and was expressly revived in the reign of James I., the object being, he believed, to force the Roman Catholic population of this island to conform to Protestantism. After the Revolution an Act of William and Mary gave relief to the Protestant Dissenters, but it was not till the reign of George III. that a Bill for abolishing pains and penalties in the case of Roman Catholics was introduced into the House of Commons. That Bill, however, did not dispense with the penalties to which those who absented themselves from Divine service on Sunday were subjected by the Act of Elizabeth. Now, this being the state of the law, this subject had been recently brought before the public by the occurrence of two cases in which some very severe and stringent measures had been carried out against working people for not going to church on Sunday. He would deal fairly with the House, and at once admit that these persons were not convicted and punished under the Act which he wished to repeal. One happened at a place called Legh, in Lancashire. Some labourers had been discovered to have saved their hay on Sunday, and a fine was imposed upon them which it appeared they could very ill afford to pay—and indeed as one of them said, it would have been much better if the magistrates had relieved them out of private charity than fined them—and consequently their goods were seized under a distress warrant. The conviction was afterwards quashed in the Court of Queen's Bench, he believed on the ground that as the people were farming on their own land they did
 947 lex scripta
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he not only did not object to the introduction of his hon. Friend's Bill, but he rejoiced at it, and should be glad of any aid and assistance he could afford in accomplishing the object both had in view. The introduction of these Bills was in itself an admission that there was a grievance to be remedied, and the question was reduced to this—
 953 954 955
 LORD HOTHAM  regretted that he had only just then entered the House, having been able only that moment to leave a Committee upstairs; but as he understood allusion had been made to the case of Watson, which occurred in his county, he wished to state what he understood to be the facts of the case. The apparent charge upon which the man had been punished was for not going to church on Sunday; but the truth was that the offence he had committed was a breach of the contract he had entered into with his mistress. It was the custom in
 948
 MR. DUNLOP  wished to receive from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) some assurance that the Bill would not act retrospectively, inasmuch as anxiety was felt on the point by the parties in such cases as that of "Shedden  v.
 MR. DUNLOP , in reply, said, that his hon. and learned Friend had stated that the grand object of his Bill was to facilitate the search of the registers, and that it was incompatible with registration in the country that the books could be searched with that rapidity and care which was desirable. Now, it was true that hitherto the books had not come up rapidly, and that there had been great delay and inconvenience. But why was it that these books have not come up? It was because the Register House in Edinburgh had sent out large oblong forms, all of a size, to small as well as to large districts, and they had not been sent up to Edinburgh until they were entirely filled. The result of that has been that several of the registers have got behind; but the remedy for that is what I propose to do in this Bill—namely, to require the registrars to send them up every six months.
 MR. DUNLOP , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to improve the system of registration of writs relative to land in Scotland, and to amend the law relating to inhibitions and adjudications, said, the Bill related to the same subject as one which had already been brought in by the hon. and learned Lord Advocate, and he therefore felt bound to give some explanation of the reasons which had induced him to propose his own measure. There had long been in Scotland registers of writs relating to landed estates. Those registers were of two kinds—one, what are called "particular registers" for counties, accessible to all at some central place in the county, or group of counties united, and a "general register" kept in Edinburgh, in which those who had lands in more than one county might register them together. In the course of time it had become the custom to register lands lying within one county only either in the particular counties in which they lie, or in the general register at Edinburgh, in the option of the party. The consequence was, that, if a man wished to obtain information in reference to a landed estate, he had now to search two registers—the general register in Edinburgh and the particular register in the county. The object of the Bill of the learned Lord Advocate, as well as his own, was to do away with one of these registers, and in future to make only one registry competent. The two Bills correspond, except in one respect. The mode in which the Lord Advocate proposed to effect the object was by abolishing all the particular registries, and requiring all writs relative to land to be brought up to one general registry in the Register House in Edinburgh. He proposed to bring the whole registers of all deeds throughout Scotland to Edinburgh, and to have them given in and recorded there. Now, his (Mr. Dunlop's) plan was to abolish the central registry and keep up the particular registries. He thought there ought to be in each particular locality the register of each particular district, although afterwards
 952
 MR. NEATE  confessed his disappointment at hearing the observations of the noble Lord (Lord Hotham). When the noble Lord rose, he (Mr. Neate) thought he was going to explain matters, and to repudiate on the part of the magistrates with whom he was connected any intention whatever of repealing this Act. Instead of that, the noble Lord had actually endeavoured to justify the conduct of the magistrates in the case referred to. He (Mr. Neate) wholly deprecated the course taken.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to facilitate the traffic of the metropolis and to improve the communications across the Thames by opening the present toll-bridges for the free use of the public, said, it was necessary to say little more in its support than that in a metropolis of 3,000,000 persons there were only three free bridges connecting the northern and southern parts of London. About a century ago Westminster Bridge was built, and a little while afterwards Blackfriars. London Bridge has since been rebuilt at the expense of the city, and these are the only free bridges of the metropolis. Every one knew that the northern portion of the metropolis was overcrowded, that the streets were overloaded with traffic, and that there was a difficulty in finding house accommodation, in consequence of those whose occupations or business was connected with this great City being confined to the north side of London, by the want of free bridge accommodation. No persons suffered more than the working classes from the pre-
 950 d.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  then fixed the 22nd instant for going into Committee on the Bill, expressing a hope that in the meantime the Attorney General would be enabled to appoint some other day for its coming on, when there would be a chance of having its provisions discussed in a full House. In answer to the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop), he begged to say that it was by no means his intention that the Bill should act retrospectively.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, he understood it was not the intention of the Government to offer any opposition to the second reading, and he thought it would be more convenient to postpone the consideration of the measure till the House went into Committee. He would not therefore detain the House more than a few minutes. The Bill contained eight clauses, which were intended to carry into effect seven distinct measures of amendment in the law. With respect to five of those measures, and possibly six, he thought he might venture to say that no difference of opinion existed, and when the time should come to consider the entire Bill in Committee—although, undoubtedly, explanation would be necessary, and some discussion might be thought appropriate—he did not imagine that any opposition would be raised to any one of those five, or possibly six, clauses. One clause, however—the third—stood upon a different footing. By this clause it was proposed to render admissible as witnesses the parties accused in all criminal cases. With regard to this clause he would not be dealing fairly with the House if he did not at once state that, although he rejoiced to say this clause had the approbation of more than one of Her Majesty's Judges, whose high authority was entitled to every consideration, yet he was quite aware that in the profession of the law, as well as in that House, a very great difference of opinion might be expected to
 940
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he regretted the union of so many subjects in one Bill. Some of the provisions were so objectionable in principle that he thought the discussion upon it ought to have been taken on the second reading, and the Bill sent to the Committee with the approval of the House or thrown out altogether. Hon. Members would, for instance, recollect that in the case of actions for breach of promise the exception which it was sought by the Bill to dispense with was made deliberately when the change in the law of evidence was adopted. He might perhaps be allowed to observe with regard to such actions that he never knew one of which he could not say that, in his opinion, it would have been better that it had not been brought on for trial; but if they were to have breach of promise trials at all it was evident that they would be greatly multiplied if the plaintiffs themselves were allowed to give evidence of the promise. Then with regard to another class of cases, the result of the proposed change would, he thought, be that that class of actions which were now brought nominally by fathers on behalf of daughters would be converted into actions for breach of promise, and he, therefore, maintained it was right that those actions should stand on a different footing from other causes. He had as great a desire as the hon. and learned Gentleman himself that the courts should on all occasions arrive at a just conclusion; and, therefore, he might be permitted to say the law of evidence as it stood led, in almost every instance, to a just conclusion, and that it was wiser to submit to such slight evils as it might occasion, rather than invite greater. When it was borne in mind how an accused person was protected from the moment when he was
 944 945
 MR. LOCKE  thought the magistrates ought to have declined to have anything to do with the matter. The sooner Acts of Parliament like these were swept from the statute-book the better it would be. They were wholly unsuited to the present times—and indeed to any times—and the thanks of the House were due to the hon. Member who had introduced this Bill. Surely it was sufficient punishment
 949
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he hoped the Attorney General would reconsider his decision with regard to the third clause. There were many cases to which the principle of that clause might be extended with advantage. Take, for instance, a case of libel. If a prosecutor proceeded by action, the defendant could give evi-
 943
 MR. SCULLY  said, he felt no indisposition to yield to the wish of his hon. and learned Friend, though for himself he thought it would be more convenient to discuss the principle of the Bill upon the second reading. The point, however, was comparatively unimportant, for his own Bill merely embodied in one clause the proposals which were spread over three or four clauses of the present measure. He understood that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government that his own Bill, that of the hon. and learned Gentleman, and a third Bill, having the same object, should be discussed together. It was rather anomalous, certainly, to find Lord Derby's Attorney General in the foremost rank of law reformers, while the Law Officers of a Liberal Government opposed his efforts. The anomaly, however, formed only part of that still greater contradiction under which Conservative Liberals sat on the Opposition side of the House, and Liberal Conservatives filled the Ministerial Benches. The state of things was not one which commanded his approval; these political "crosses" and admixtures of Conservative Southdowns with the Liberal Cotswolds never could lead to good results. To outward appearance everything was
 941
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would allow his Bill to follow the same course.
 MR. BUCHANAN  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed that what the noble Lord had stated was quite right—namely, that the magistrates! had exercised the jurisdiction conferred on them by convicting the man in question of a breach of engagement. He thought that the mistress of this man did not actually insist upon her servant going to church; but she was naturally dissatisfied at his refusal to go to any place of worship.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  reminded the hon. and learned Gentleman that his Act of 1858 had—though he felt assured contrary to his intention—a retrospective action, He was afraid the Shedden case, which had already been attended with great expense, might, under the operation of the Bill as it stood, should a new trial be allowed, be tried again in the Probate Court under entirely new conditions.
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, the intention was that a person who had insured his life for a particular sum, and afterwards desired to increase the amount, should not be allowed to so without adducing proof in every such case regarding his occupation and state of health. The papers distributed that morning contained rules showing that the same precautions would be taken in cases of subsequent as of original insurance.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, When the Statistical Tables relating to Foreign Countries, presented on the 25th of July last, will be distributed to Members?
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, When the Return of "Taxes in Europe," presented on the 25th July last, will be distributed to Members?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  replied that his attention had been directed to the matter, and he would look into it in order to see whether it might not be possible to adopt the suggestion contained in the Question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that Sir William Armstrong received a patent in 1858, and by an arrangement made with the Government of that date, it was transferred to the nation in 1859. That was the only patent in connection with his system of rifling guns. At any rate, it was the only one under which the Government possessed an exclusive right. That patent related to the manufacture of wrought-iron breech-loading
 961
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, I think it must be admitted that the hon. Member for Inverness has been more successful in pointing out the defects and shortcomings of the present system of naval ordnance than in suggesting a remedy. It was only in a few sentences at the close of his rather lengthy speech that the hon. Gentleman adverted to the advantage of a Committee on the subject. Now, considering that his remarks ranged over the history of naval ordnance for the last five years, that the greater part of the questions raised to-night were fully and in the most minute detail investigated by the Committee which was appointed three years ago, which sat during two Sessions, but which did not report till the end of 1863, and that another inquiry would hang up the question for another year—considering
 983 984 Warrior's 985 986 Warrior 987 988 989 Royal Sovereign, 990 991 992
 GENERAL PEEL : I trust my hon. Friend will not think it necessary to move for a Committee; for, in the first place, it can require no Committee to decide that Her Majesty's ships are not armed with guns suited to the necessities of modern warfare. So far as that point goes we need no Committee to decide it; and as to deciding what the armament of war ships ought to be, I, for one, should be most opposed to any Committee of this House giving an opinion on the point. Now, no responsibility can attach to me in anything connected with the question now before the House, except that portion of it which the noble Lord has not sufficiently explained—the constitution of the Ordnance Select Committee. As far as the armament of the navy is concerned, neither myself nor any Member of Lord Derby's Government is responsible for the adoption of the Armstrong gun as a naval gun, nor was a new naval gun of any sort or kind ordered during that Administration. Lord Derby's letter, which was made an official document, requested that no gun of a larger calibre than the field gun adopted for field service in the army should be made without further trial: in fact, that there should be careful trials before any large gun was adopted. We, therefore, cannot be responsible for the naval gun. The only large gun ordered I believe was a 70-pounder, which the Admiralty requested might be furnished them for experiment. The hon. Gentleman behind me has made some remarks with regard to the Ordnance Select Committee which has somewhat surprised me. He said the Members of the Select Committee were themselves manufacturers and inventors, Why, the very object of appointing that Committee was that there should be no manufacturers or inventors on it. The great complaint against the old Committee was that several Members of it were in the habit of pressing inventions of their own. The object of appointing the present Select Committee was that there should be no inventors on it, and if there have been it is in direct opposition to the spirit of the appointment. [Mr. H. BAILLIE: There have been inventors on it.] My hon. Friend says, "Why not
 993 ex officio
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  was of opinion that his hon. Friend who had introduced this question had laid before them a very simple issue, and that the House was indebted to him for the part he was taking in the matter. The question the House had to consider was whether our ships were armed as they ought to be for modern warfare; and he hoped his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty would be able to clear up the doubt that existed on that point. From all the experiments which had been tried at Shoe-buryness it appeared to him that our armour-plating was not efficient for the defence of our ships against the fire of the heaviest artillery, and that our guns now in use were insufficient to contend with the heavy guns which they would have to be opposed to if we went to war. The hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) had said truly—and there was no higher authority—that such were the thickness and strength of the plates, we should require to use a charge nearly one-third the weight of the shot to penetrate the thick plates with which ships would be protected. If we had not 12-ton guns, he believed we had not the armament we required. If we required guns of that weight of metal, and if we had them, he knew no reason why the fact should not be stated publicly in that House and before a Committee. If we had them not in use, the Department represented in that House by his noble Friend (Lord Clarence Paget) should ask the Ordnance Department to supply them. Let them not wait for those guns till we were at war. This country had shown herself rich enough to throw away money in various ways; but it would not be throwing away money to provide those guns, even should better ones be discovered hereafter. We should procure guns suited to the period; and if these should be superseded by other guns, they could be altered or new ones procured in their stead—this was the paramount duty of the Government. When the first Armstrong guns were no longer thought to be suited to the requirements of the times, we got other guns; but he believed that other Powers had guns as good as or better than ours. We ought to have the best guns. We could afford to have them. The number of our guns for our military purposes might be
 998 Royal Sovereign Warrior 999
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as these Bills were for the same objects as his own, he was prepared to assent to the second reading without discussion. As regarded their further progress, however, it would be impossible that his and these could proceed  pari passu,
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  said, that there could be no question that a necessity existed for some great alteration in our existing system, in order that the chaplains of the navy, instead of being comparatively useless, might be made the willing instruments of elevating the tone of instruction, both religious and secular, making the seamen comfortable while afloat, and so rendering the navy a happy and contented service. The chaplains of the navy stood alone in our services as a solitary instance of a body without a head. He did not deny that the great majority of the chaplains did their duty as far as they could; but, in consequence of the absence of anything like organization, they were unable to effect all the good which might result from their efforts under a better system. They had no one to advise them, or with whom they might take counsel. There was no central authority with which they
 1007 1008 1009 1010
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, if he thought the appointment of a Committee could assist in getting for the navy the best possible gun, he should be entirely in favour of the Motion; but, according to his experience, Committees, with the very best intentions, rather retarded than assisted these very important matters. There appeared to be some little confusion as to
 1002 Warrior Royal Sovereign, 1003
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that he proposed at a future period to state the exact course which the Government proposed to take, but he could inform the hon. Baronet that the Admiralty had just given directions that no fresh entries should take place on board the  Britannia
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the Admiralty had no desire whatever to conceal any information as to the results of the trials of the turret system on board the  Royal Sovereign;
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, we received at the Admiralty yesterday a telegram that there was a report at New York of the loss of the  Galatea. Galatea "The reported loss of Her Majesty's ship  Galatea Galatea
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, with reference to the Memorandum prefixed to the Tables framed under the Act 27 & 28  Vict. 958
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, there had been a great deal of trouble in collecting the Returns, but they were now complete and in the hands of the printer. He hoped they would be ready for distribution in a very few days.
 MR. SEELY , in calling the attention of the House to the apparently excessive cost of fitting out, refitting, and repairing certain of Her Majesty's Ships, and to other items in the Dockyard Accounts that appear to require explanation, said, the object he had in view in bringing this question before the House, was that it appeared to him, from a Return he held in his hand headed "Navy Ships," printed in July, 1864, that the cost of repairing certain vessels, the names of which he had fur-
 1011 Falcon Falcon Lyra Falcon, Falcon, Wasp, Wasp, Sharpshooter, Salamander, Wasp 1012 Falcon Bulldog, Bulldog,
 MR. CARDWELL , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to enable Her Majesty's colonies to make better provision for maritime defence, said, that no subject had of late years attracted more attention than the development of the qualities of self-reliance in our colonies and the means of enabling them to make provision for their own defence, and so relieve this country from a part of a great burden which had pressed upon it in former times. Formerly chief attention had been paid to land defence, but it was evident that defence by sea was of far greater importance, and that subject had attracted considerable attention both at home and in the colonies. The first Parliamentary record of the wishes of the colony on this subject was to be
 1028 1029
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that the Bill contemplated nothing which was not to be at the expense of the colony, at least in ordinary times.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was very anxious briefly to state the grounds upon which he should support the Motion, as his hon. Friend had stated he should go to a division. His hon. Friend (Mr. H. Baillie), in his clear and able statement, had put the question before the House in a most intelligible manner, and it rested upon the point whether Her Majesty's ships were or were not at the present moment furnished with the best description of gun that could be procured. It was impossible to conceive a question of greater importance; and though he was not going to offer an opinion upon it, he was bound to say, after having listened to the speech of the noble Marquess the Under Secretary of State for War (the Marquess of Harting-ton), that he had not heard from him any answer to what he conceived was the gist of the question, or any reason assigned why the Committee should not be appointed. His noble Friend had complained that the hon. Member for Inverness had made various complaints without suggesting a remedy for the evils of which he complained; but, if after stating what he considered to be the grievances of which he had to complain, and the laches on the part of Her Majesty's Government in not having procured the best guns for the navy, he had taken upon himself to state what was to be the remedy, he would have gone beyond the position of an independent Member of that House; and, therefore, he (Mr. Bentinck) did not consider the noble Marquess had any right to make such a complaint against the hon. Member for Inverness. The noble Marquess had said nothing in answer to the reasons urged by the hon. Member with reference to the inefficient armament of the navy, or why the Committee should not be appointed. The noble Marquess had, however, stated that a Committee was lately appointed. That was perfectly true, but it had been shown in the course of the debate that not one of their valuable suggestions had been adopted. The principle of going into questions of this kind by means of a Committee having been established, the House was bound in justice to itself, and also to that Committee which had made recommendations of grave importance on a matter of this kind, to know upon what grounds Her Majesty's Government had thought fit to reject those recommendations. He agreed with the right hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) that a Committee was not the best mode of
 995 996 997
 MR. PEACOCKE  was of opinion that his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness had made out a good case in support of his Motion. He had told the House that the navy was not properly armed, and the Under Secretary for War had not ventured to say that it was. Was it not, he would ask, under those circumstances, within the province of the House of Commons to inquire into the subject, and the duty of hon. Members to see that the Executive performed its duty with respect to it? One of the questions which had been raised in the course of the discussion was who was responsible for the guns which were issued to the navy? And that question had been answered by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel), who said that the responsibility rested upon the shoulders of the First Lord of the Admiralty; but, on the other hand, the statement of the First Lord of the Admiralty (the Duke of Somerset) before the Committee was—
 "All we can do is to send to the War Department and say what guns we think we want; but in the case of any new gun we must rest entirely on the War Department for an opinion with regard to that new gun." 1000 "I am satisfied that most, if not all, the serious damage she] (the rebel ram) has sustained was
 1001 Tennessee's Excellent,
 MR. H. BAILLIE  rose to move that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire whether Her Majesty's Ships are at present armed in a manner suited to the necessities and requirements of modern warfare. Sir, in rising to bring forward this Motion, I cannot refrain from expressing a wish that this may not be regarded as a party question. The subject is one deeply interesting in itself, and of vital importance as regards the safety and honour of this country. We have often been told of late that we possess the finest ironclad ships in the world. We might be told with much greater truth that our sailors are most able, most experienced, and most brave; but all these advantages are vain, useless, and utterly unavailing if our ships are not armed in a manner suited to the necessities and requirements of modern warfare. Now, it cannot be denied that a very uneasy feeling prevails, not only in the public mind, but also in the minds of
 963 964 Excellent Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign 965 Warrior La Gloire. Excellent, Trusty, Trusty 966 "The Armstrong system was first extended to 110 lb. calibre on the 14th of October, 1859. The political necessities of the day appear to have been so urgent as not to allow time to mature the design previous to their manufacture, and in consequence of the excessive pressure for the supply of guns of this calibre the first hundred were completed before the experiments on them were concluded." "Can you state on what series of experiments the 110-pounders were proved?" "None at all. There was such excessive pressure for rifle guns at that period that there was no time for experiments; and it was one of the great difficulties I had to contend with that I was obliged to produce the guns under those circumstances." Warrior 967 Warrior 968 "On the second day no shell fitted with the 'pillar fuze' went more than 300 yards, most burst in the gun, and nearly all the shot 'stripped,' some going as much as 600 yards to the left. Several of the grooves were cut half-way down the gun." "Of the 110-pounder pivot, one breech blew out, and one from the broadside gun, which split and struck inside, knocked down the gunner's crew, but did no damage ( i.e., "I am sorry to say the Armstrong did not impress us as being such a first-rate gun; in fact all, to a certain extent, failed. A shell burst in ours, and cut up the rifling a good deal—knocked holes in it. The shell with concussion fuzes, which are brought from the shell-room and put into the gun without being touched, all burst at the muzzle of the gun. The practice also appears to have been worse with the Armstrong than with the smoothbore." "This 110-pounder missed eight times; on one occasion they were twenty-eight minutes under fire before they could get it off, another time twenty minutes." Pearl, Euryalus, Perseus, Argus, Racehorse, Coquette, Euryalus, Trusty. Perseus, 969 Argus, Coquette, Racehorse, "causing great delay at a time when it was of great importance we should keep up a rapid fire, and when the smooth-bore guns, which were being fired under the same adverse circumstances, kept up a continuous and rapid fire." "One vent-piece ( i.e., i. e., i. e, 970 Warrior Warrior "All the Admiralty can do is to send to the War Department, and say what guns they want; but in the case of any new gun, that must rest entirely with the War Department, as the Admiralty had but little or no opportunity of judging them, and must accept such as are sent to them. Every gun is passed by the Ordnance Select Committee before it comes to us." 971 Excellent; 972 973 canon rayé Excellent 974 Excellent, 975 "Without expressing any opinion on the controverted questions, your Committee venture to express a hope that the different systems, not of Sir William Armstrong and Mr. Whitworth only, but of the other able men whose minds are now engaged on ordnance questions, may be fairly experimented upon." La Gloire, 976 "La Gloire Warrior, Solferino Heroine 977 Warrior, Solferino. "The employment of iron-clad vessels in America has demonstrated the absolute necessity of having guns of a very large calibre, and the successful use of such guns against iron-plated vessels depends upon heavy charges." Warrior. 978 979
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that before he followed his hon. Friend through the very interesting and in many respects very useful statement he had just made to the House, he wished to answer the remarks which had been made by previous speakers on the subject of naval chaplains. And at the outset he felt bound entirely to disclaim certain episcopal functions which the hon. and gallant Member for. Wakefield (Sir John Hay) had attributed to him. He had nothing to do with either the appointment or the discipline of the chaplains afloat, and his duties in connection with them were confined to cognizance of, and suggestions relating to, their educational functions. As he understood the suggestion of the hon. Baronet and those who supported him, it was that in the present state of naval affairs there should be at head-quarters a clergyman in the position of Chaplain General, with whom the chaplains of the navy should be in special relations. It was said that such a Chaplain General would be able to select clergymen for the position of chaplains; and, still more, that he would be able to select them for particular ships, knowing those who would be best suited for one class of ships and those who would be best suited for another. Moreover, it was said that, from that Chaplain General naval chaplains were to look for counsel and instruction as to the way in which they should carry out their duties on board ship. Now, he thought the House should pause before it advocated the creation of a new office of that kind. What was the position of the chaplain of a ship? He took it that, in the first instance, he was intended to be the friend and adviser of every one on board. To him all in the vessel looked for counsel. His special relation to the captain was of the greatest
 1018 1019 Falcon, Falcon, Falcon, Bulldog Salamander Salamander 1020 1021 15s. 1022
 MR. WHITESIDE  assented to this course, and fixed Thursday for the Committee.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether Her Majesty's Government are aware that Armstrong Guns are being manufactured by the Elswick Ordnance Company for Foreign Governments; and, if so, whether permission to do so has been granted to that Firm by the Secretary of State for War, the patents for constructing guns on that principle having been transferred to Her Majesty's Government by Sir William Armstrong?
 MR. LAIRD  said, he would now beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table Copies of any Reports made by Captain Sherard Osborn, R.N., on the various trials of the  Royal Sovereign
 MR. LOCKE  rose to call the attention of the House to the manner in which prisoners are detained in Newgate whilst under remand, and to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department whether
 1023 Geo. 1024 "That his clients who might easily have evaded this inquiry during the earlier stages of the proceedings, did not do so, but were to be found every day at their houses or pursuing their usual avocations, and had themselves courted inquiry; but since their apprehension they had been deprived of their liberty without the option of giving bail. The learned gentleman said he should not be so urgent if he had not found that the prisoners were subjected to all the pains and punishments of convicted felons."
 MR. LOCKE : But the counsel for the prosecution did not deny the truth on that occasion, and it was not gainsaid by the alderman on the bench. If the right hon. Gentleman had received information different to that, it was different to what the alderman admitted. Indeed, the alderman said that it was the Home Secretary's fault. He attributed to the right hon. Gentleman all the evils chargeable upon the management of the gaol of Newgate; and certainly put the right hon. Gentleman on his defence. Mr. Serjeant Ballantine said—
 "That his clients were deprived of the common necessaries of life, and had every menial office to perform in their cells; they were not allowed to hold communication with their families, except in the presence of a warder. Such prison regulations, he said, were a disgrace to a civilized community, and that if he had heard of such things taking place in continental prisons, they would be denounced as insupportable tyranny. His clients were prepared with any amount of bail, and their liberation could by no possibility be injurious to the ends of public justice." 1025 surveillance
 MR. LOCKE : I expressly said that I made no complaint of that.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that the case of Newgate was not an isolated one. Similar circumstances had come under his notice. It was not long ago a man named Holl and his wife were taken into custody on a charge of illegally pawning. They were brought a considerable distance in a soaking rain, and were locked up all night in their wet clothes, having been refused the privilege of sending for dry clothing. In the morning some little show of mercy was made by the persons in charge of the station by turning hot air into the cell, but the poor man exclaimed, "It is too late; the treatment I have received this night has done for me," and he died in twelve hours. An inquest was held, and the jury returned as a verdict, "Died of bronchitis, accelerated by the treatment he had received before being found guilty in the station." The coroner said—
 "He quite agreed with the verdict; that it was not the first time such treatment had come under his notice; that shortly before a similar case had happened at the Marlborough Street station, and that he had made a report of it to the Home Office, and expressed a hope that the right hon. Gentleman would take steps to do away with the great cruelty to which people under remand were now subjected."
 MR. COLLINS  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Leeds, Whether it is his intention to proceed with the Second reading of the Borough Franchise Extension Bill in the week fixed by law for holding the Courts of Quarter Sessions throughout England and Wales?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he understood that the Tables referred to would be ready in the course of two or three weeks.
 MR. SALT  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What steps he intends to take in order to bring the New Regulations with respect to the purchase of Government Annuities and of Payments at Death prominently before the notice of those persons for whose benefit the regulations have been framed; and also whether every reasonable facility will be given for effecting the purchase of small Annuities, taking into consideration the means of information and the position of the probable annuitants?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he need hardly say that the Government were very anxious to take every means in their power for the purpose of placing the public in possession of all information connected with the making of insurances and the purchase of annuities, and great advantage had arisen from the manner in which public attention had been directed to the subject, both by discussions in that House and in the public press. The regulations and the tables made for the purpose of working the system in the General Post Office had of course been drawn up with great fulness and submitted to Parliament in that shape with a great deal of detail, because it was necessary to give to Parliament all the regulations, whether they referred to the conduct of the officers who were to be employed in administering, working, and controlling the system, or whether they referred to the proceedings to be taken by those who might be desirous to become insurers or purchasers of annuities. These
 960
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether, in the Annual Report of Scotch Judicial Statistics, he will adopt the English and Irish forms to facilitate comparison?
 MR. BAINES  said, in reply, that he had fixed the 5th of April for the second reading of the Bill by the advice of an officer of the House, believing that the arrangement would meet the convenience of Members generally for the discussion of the measure. Finding, however, that the Quarter Sessions met during that week, he at once intimated his willingness to change the day, and now begged to defer his Motion for the second reading of the Bill to the 3rd of May.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he had intended to have moved a Resolution somewhat analogous to that moved on a previous evening by the hon. Member for
 1027
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Torrens) had given him
 1026
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Then he need say nothing as to that. After the answer he (Sir George Grey) gave to the hon. Member's question the other night, he should have thought it impossible for any one to assert that prisoners under remand were in a worse position and subject to greater hardships than prisoners convicted of crime. He (Sir George Grey) stated then that there was a distinction in favour of persons on remand or committed for trial, and that they had privileges allowed them which convicted criminals had not. He knew nothing of this case; he had had no complaints from any of these persons, or from any other person, in Newgate prison, of harsh treatment. If any such complaints had been made he should have addressed on the subject the only persons who by law were competent to deal with them—namely, the visiting justices—who, were the Court of Aldermen. Although, therefore, a single magistrate could not interfere, yet Mr. Alderman Stone might have brought the subject under the notice of his brother Aldermen. It was not the Secretary of State who was the only person who could interfere—the matter was in the hands of the visiting justices. He would only say that if the persons whom his hon. Friend on this occasion represented sent to him any statement of improper treatment they had received he would refer it to the visiting justices, and request them to report upon it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : That is not true.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  rose to call attention to the evidence given to the Committee on Navy Promotion and Retirement in 1863 on the subject of re-appointing to the office of Chaplain General of the Navy. He said it was the opinion of many naval authorities that it would be of essential value to the service. We have learnt by experience that the best way of governing men was to appeal to their higher interests and the better portions of their character, and that when a chaplain in the navy duly appreciated his character
 1004 St. Vincent, Sanspareil Agamemnon Sanspareil. 1005 "My dear Sir Harry,—I am glad to hear that you are likely to draw attention to the importance of appointing a Chaplain General for the Navy. During the eight years of my tenure of the see of London I have frequently been called to consider this subject, and, though fully aware of the difficulties which may be urged, I am decidedly of opinion that the change from the present system would be very beneficial. The senior chaplain of Greenwich Hospital does not appear to exercise the sort of influence which a regularly appointed Chaplain General might be expected to have. The evidence seems to go to this—that a Chaplain General might be of great use in aiding the Admiralty authorities to select good chaplains: that while all reports still passed through the captain to the Admiralty, the advice of an experienced senior clergyman in such a position might both be of great use to the chaplains generally, and he might suggest to the Admiralty many useful regulations for the improvement of the social and religious condition of the sailors.—Believe me, yours truly, A. C. LONDON." 1006
 SIR JOHN HAY  trusted that his noble Friend (Lord Clarence Paget) or the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers), who he believed might be regarded as Admiralty Bishop, would give some information upon this subject at a future period. He quite concurred in what had fallen from both the hon. Baronet and the hon. Member who had last spoken as to the importance of having a Chaplain General. He had the greatest possible respect for his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract except in his episcopal character, and he could assure him that he would find the greatest relief in the discharge from his episcopal duties if a Chaplain General, or some such person with whom the naval chaplains could communicate for advice and assistance, were placed at the Board.
 SIR JOHN HAY  had not intended to rise at so early a period in the debate; hut, fully concurring with the Motion made by his hon. Friend the Member for Inverness, he did not quite agree in all the historical narrative by which that Motion had been prefaced. He must, however, compliment his hon. Friend on the very clear and distinct reasoning by which he had enforced the fact that our ships were at present unarmed, or so badly armed that we had no right to consider them as fit to defend themselves against the navies of Europe or America. He would be very brief in the observations he had to make as to the particulars in which he thought the Government had erred in this matter. He was not going to recapitulate the evidence they already possessed as given before a Committee of the House two years ago. The Report of that Committee distinctly showed that what faults had been committed were due to the want of knowledge at the time, specific orders having been given for a description of gun which was not now equal to the necessities of the case. In 1859 there were hardly any armour-plated ships at all. The guns made in a hurry in consequence of events with reference to the possible outbreak of hostilities with America were of a very different quality from those which were now necessary, in consequence of the fact that all the navies of the world were protected by iron armour; and though a mistake might have been committed by making these guns of too light a pattern that mistake was due to the want of knowledge at the period and to the fact that the guns were wanted to contend with wooden ships, and all the blame due to the Government was apportioned in the blue-book of the Ordnance Committee published in 1863. He thought it therefore hardly worth while, after that voluminous Report had been laid on the table, to go back on the circumstances, which were perfectly different from those which now existed. The mistake made, it appeared to him was that the Government decided that guns should be made not exceeding a certain weight. They limited the makers of ordnance in this country as to weight, and they expected results which were impracticable with light guns. Robins, the old authority on artillery, had laid it down that a gun should not be less than 150 times the weight of the projectile. The
 980 "The Committee cannot conclude their final Report without referring to a matter of urgent importance, and to which they have drawn their Lordships' attention on more than one occasion. It is the necessity for the supply, without further delay, of powerful guns, which will be capable of effectually damaging iron-plated ships, and, further, that all such guns should be supplied with a large proportion of steel shot and shells. As regards the power of the guns which should be manufactured, it has been found, after numerous and conclusive experiments on iron targets, that nothing less than ordnance of 12 tons weight, and capable of bearing a 45lb. charge, can successfully attack an armour-plated structure, such as the  Warrior. 981 "Now, Sir, my opinion upon this subject with regard to the kind of gun that ought to be used is this:—I consider that the enormous weight of material which iron-plated ships must use for protecting these guns will limit the armament of guns to a very small number in vessels of that kind. The enormous expense, also, of steel projectiles, which alone can be used effectively against such structures, necessitates that the ammunition should be sparingly used. I therefore consider that it will not be sufficient to use small-bored guns, and guns of small dimensions generally, which will only have the effect of making small, easily-plugged holes. I think it will be absolutely necessary to use guns of a very large calibre, which shall have great crushing effect, so as to destroy the enemy's ship at a small number of discharges and with a small expenditure of ammunition From what I have seen of the experiments at Shoeburyness, I think nothing less than a bore of nine inches will be sufficient for this purpose, and I very much doubt whether that will be adequate. It is said that ships cannot conveniently carry guns of more than six tons weight; but I look upon it as a matter of absolute necessity that they should do so. I think that they must accept the use of large guns as an absolute necessity, and that the proper machinery must be applied for the working of such guns. I have no doubt that if it be taken up as an engineering question ways and means will be found of using guns of any required weight on board ship." 982 "In fact if your Grace was fitting out a fleet for active service to-morrow would you recommend that the greater number of the guns should be the old 68 pounders? Not now; if I had them I would rather have a more powerful gun. I consider that what we have asked the War Office to provide us with would be the sort of gun that we require. I want a gun in which we can fire about 25lb. of powder, and I should not object to its being a smoothbore if I could have a gun which could carry a projectile weighing about 140lb. or 150lb."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had observed with very great concern a rumour of the loss of Her Majesty's ship  Galatea 962
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If it is the intention of the Government to remedy the complaints of the Masters and Staff Commanders of the Navy, as regards their present rank, pay, and allowances?
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  inquired whether
 1030
 THE LORD-ADVOCATE , in reply, said, he really could not inform his hon. Friend when the Returns, which were very voluminous, would be laid on the table. They were now being prepared, and he would take all the means in his power to have them completed.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he could answer the Question—there was no regular time, as the Question of the hon. Member implied. The practice with regard to cases of this description was that as soon as a certain number accumulated they were taken up to Her Majesty. These cases had been taken up to Her Majesty, and there was no reason why the sentences should not now be promulgated.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the Report of the Military Re-servo Fund extended over transactions which had taken place in the financial year beginning April I and ending March 31. The Report, therefore, could not be printed until the conclusion of the year, and he feared it would not be ready for presentation to the House till three weeks or a month after the conclusion of the financial year—that was to say, about the end of April.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the papers referred to
 1044 Gazette
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that Lord de Ros would continue to hold the appointment of deputy lieutenant of the Tower, although he had been appointed colonel of the 4th Hussars. It was not necessary that he should enter into an explanation of the circumstances, but he might state that Lord de Ros was appointed to the Tower before the rule was laid down by which it was declared that in future officers should not hold two such appointments together. In the case of a gallant general (General Bowles), who had been deputy constable of the Tower, precisely the same rule had been acted upon.
 THE MARQUESS of HARTINGTON  said, that the Report in reference to the Ordnance Survey would be in the hands of Members next week, and would give detailed information of the progress made in the surveys, and in the publication of the Ordnance Maps. The survey in the counties south of Middlesex was progressing, and no time would be lost in publishing the map. It was quite plain that the map could not be published until it was made, but the two operations went on simultaneously, and as soon as the survey of a particular district was brought to a certain point the publication of the map was not delayed for a moment. He could not, however, state how long it would be before the whole of the South of England would be surveyed. If the sum taken in the Estimates were increased the work would be of course accelerated. The whole of the money taken for the Ordnance Survey was expended on it. The expense of the work done with reference to the Doomsday Book was not paid out of the money given to defray the expense of the survey, but wa3 paid out of funds provided by the Treasury. He hoped the Report would be ready in a few days, and it would show more accurately than he could what had been the progress of the survey.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he will undertake to present the Annual Report of the Military Reserve Fund in sufficient time to allow of its being examined and considered by Members before he moves the Army Estimates in Committee of Supply?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  wished to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill, which, through an inadvertence, he had no opportunity of asking him on the second reading. The Bill, as he understood it, was not intended to be contingent on the action of the Cape Parliament, but was meant to take effect whether the Cape Parliament should or should not adopt its provisions. The right hon. Gentleman was well aware that a similar measure had once been proposed to the Cape Parliament and rejected; and he was also well aware that it was opposed by a very large proportion of the inhabitants of British Kaffraria. The right hon. Gentleman had, he understood, said that the main object of proposing the annexation of that small territory of 8,000 or 10,000 square miles to the Cape Colony was that he wished to give an inducement to the colony to undertake the defence of that territory, and that hereafter we should have a ground to expect that the colonists of the Cape of Good Hope, having representative institutions, would be ready to defend that frontier. Now, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether, if the Imperial Government took upon itself, in spite of the expressed wishes of the Cape colonists and of the inhabitants of British Kaffraria, to unite these two districts against their will, he thought he would have a good ground for appealing to the Cape Parliament hereafter to protect its frontier in the event of any disturbance arising? About 1850 the district of British Kaffraria was made a separate colony by letters patent, which were again issued in 1854 and 1860, and it was now proposed to annex it to the Cape for the sake of political convenience, and because, being a frontier district, and its defence being thrown on the Imperial Government, we might hereafter have a fair ground to claim that the Cape should bear a share of the burden of its defence. Hitherto, with the exception of raising the Cape Mounted
 1094 ultra vires,
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  explained, that he never intended to question the right of the Imperial Parliament to deal with this subject.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  wished to know how the amount which was to be paid to officials for loss of office had been determined.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, the attention of the Government had been called to those instructions, which were disapproved by Her Majesty's Government. It would not, however, be consistent with the interests of the public service that he should detail the steps which they had directed to be taken.
 MR. ADDERLEY  asked for some definition of "British Kaffraria."
 MR. ADDERLEY  was of opinion that the opposition to the Bill proceeded rather upon the ground that such a measure ought not to pass without observation and explanation than upon objections to the Bill itself. For his own part, he did not think the Government had any alternative but to propose some such Bill as this. No one could dispute the power of the Imperial Parliament to deal with this subject. It was in the power of the Sovereign even to abandon to hold territory, held, as this, as a Crown colony, and it was within the power of the Imperial Parliament to bring it within the boundaries of the Cape. The Queen would only have to cancel the Letters Patent of 1860, which constituted Kaffraria into an independent Crown colony, and then the question would, no doubt, present itself very differently to the minds of those who now opposed its annexation. Then as to the wisdom of the measure itself. No doubt it appeared a violent proceeding to annex Kaffraria against the wishes of the inhabitants of the colony, and against the desire of the representatives of the Cape. It was possible that the Governor erred in making the arrangement at all appear to them to be dependent upon their consent. The inhabitants of Kaffraria objected because they did not want to be put to the expense of defending their own territory, and preferred being wholly undertaken for by British taxpayers to being taxed themselves; and the Cape representatives objected because as long as Kaffraria was maintained by England there was a barrier against all invasion of their country kept up for them at our expense—in fact, we should be obliged to defend their frontier. The Cape desired to have all the pleasures of self-government without the expense. Those were good reasons there, but they were equally strong the other way with the Imperial Government. The hon. Member for Taunton seemed to fear the risk of our involving ourselves in future Kaffir wars by giving the Cape the plea
 1098
 MR. NEATE  said, he desired to explain that he found he was mistaken in intimating to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire that in France the State possessed a control over the conventual establishments of that country which it did not possess here. He was formerly under the impression that the Government possessed and might exercise the right of inspection and visitation of convents. In this, however, he found he was mistaken. The fact was that in France there were several sorts of conventual establishments, some which were authorized, and some which were not. Those which were authorized came under inspection, but enjoyed corresponding advantages; for it was only convents belonging to this class that were entitled to the benefit of any bequest made in their
 1070 1071 habeas corpus.
 MR. NEATE , in calling attention to the recent appointment of Governor of the
 1088 1089 1090
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he stated that he desired to lay the facts before the House, and would leave it to the wisdom of the House to apply the remedy.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  moved that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the existence, character, and increase of Monastic or Conventual Establishments, or societies, in Great Britain. He said:* It will be in the recollection of the House that on the 8th of April last I ventured to make a Motion in the House for a Committee to inquire into the case of a Mr. Smee, detailed in a petition which I presented to the House, with reference to certain circumstances connected with the last illness, burial, and the disposal of the property of a Mr. Hutchison, a relation of his, who became a member of the Society of St. Philip Neri, or Society of Orato-rians, which has an establishment at Brotnpton, and also had a burial-ground at St. Mary's, Sydenham. It was alleged on that occasion that this case was to be adjudged by the tribunals of the country, and a circumstance occurred which tended to divert the attention of the House from the conclusion of the Motion which I then made, which going beyond the immediate case presented by the petition of Mr. Smee, proposed to inquire into the conventual and monastic institutions, which have increased so largely in this country. It happened that Mr. Smee, without consulting me, without my knowledge, and without my
 1046 1047 "That on the 1st of March, 1861, your petitioner's son was captain of the Westminster School, and would in the course of a few weeks have obtained his election to a junior studentship at Christ's Church, Oxford. "That up to Sunday, the 3rd of March, in the same year, your petitioner's son had never held the slightest communication whatever with any Roman Catholic priest; that at one o'clock on that day he was introduced to Father John Bowden, a priest of the Oratory, at Brompton, to be shown, as he supposed, over that establishment; that he was detained in the Oratory by various invitations and by other circumstances for the remainder of the day, and was finally baptized at nine o'clock the same night, with the knowledge and consent of the Superior of the said Oratory, and for the express purpose of debarring your petitioner from the exercise of his just rights and authority as a parent. "That your petitioner's son was at that very time in an infirm state of health, and was actually under medical treatment; that after his confession in Father Bowden's room at a quarter before nine o'clock at night, he felt so prostrated as to be obliged to lie down on a sofa; and that he was unwell and suffering from headache at the time of his baptism, "That in a letter addressed to his sister on the 8th of March your petitioner's son described his reception into the Church of Rome as a sin, and as having been obtained by fraudulent means. "That your petitioner, on the removal of his son from Westminster, renewed the expression of his intention to educate him for the Indian civil service, which offer he seemed inclined to accept, but that the Superior or other Fathers of the Oratory, offered him (as your petitioner is credibly informed) £100 per annum if he would become a postulant for the noviciate in their establishment. "That in consequence of the infirm state of his health your petitioner's son, shortly after his removal from Westminster School, was sent by your petitioner to reside for several weeks with a relation at the seaside, where everything necessary for his health and comfort was most amply supplied; that the Superior of the Oratory gave him three pounds to enable him to go to the Oratory whenever he pleased, notwithstanding your petitioner's most positive commands to the contrary. "That your petitioner's son did go to the Oratory before the time fixed for the expiration of his visit; that he became a postulant, and was permitted to commence his noviciate some months before his 19th year, notwithstanding the strong letter of remonstrance your petitioner wrote to the Superior, in which he forbade such a violation of parental authority. "Tour petitioner therefore humbly prays your honourable House to inquire into the truth of the
 1048 "J. H. HARRISON." "Every one belonging to his religious creed (that is, the Roman Catholic) knew that, which it was no shame to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire if he did not know, that the constitution of the Community at Brompton did not in the smallest degree bring them within the purview of the law. Persons who belonged to the Oratory at Brompton—those who belonged to any Community of that distinguished Order—were not bound by vows such as the hon. Member appeared to suppose. It was a matter of perfect notoriety that they lived together in Community; they were secular priests associating voluntarily, not bound to remain together for a single hour, each holding his property, and able to dispose of it just as he desired."—[3  Hansard, 1049 1050 quasi 1051 "The great increase of religious houses must be reckoned among the evils of this age (Henry II). The author of the  Notitia Monastica 1052 Kennett's Cases of Impropriations, "Had the monasteries been dissolved in Henry V.'s reign, when the Bill was brought into Parliament for that purpose, it would have been more regularly and justly conducted than in an after reign; that by this would all have reverted to the parish churches, and the clergy would have gained as much by it as the Government. This appears from the sequel, that when the King, instead of the English monasteries, had only the alien priories given him, he seized on no part of the tithes, but on the lands and tenements that were before of lay fee, and might justly return into lay hands. These, too, he intended to have employed for breeding up a more learned clergy, declaring it was his design to found a college of divines and artists, and to settle upon the said college the lands of the alien priories dissolved, if he had not been prevented by death. In the first act of dissolution there was a saving to the interest of strangers, travellers, and poor, by binding the new possessors of any site or precinct of the religious houses to keep, or cause to be kept, an honest continual house and household in the same site or precinct.…In a preamble written by the King's own hand to another Act, it was declared to be an intent that the endowments of monasteries might be turned to better use, God's Word better set forth, children brought up in learning, clerks nourished in the Universities, and exhibition for ministers of the Church. Divers of the visitors themselves did petition the King to leave some of the religious houses for the benefit of the country, and Latimer moved that two or three might be left in every shire for pious uses. I have seen an original letter from Latimer to the Lord Cromwell (Cleopatra, E. IV., fol. 264) to intercede with the King that Malvern Abbey might be left standing for the better performance of the duties of preaching, praying, and keeping hospitality." "The spirit of the nation being so much raised against foreigners, that about this time, in the reign of Henry V., the alien priories, or abbeys, for foreign monks were suppressed, and their lands given to the Crown. And no further attempts were afterwards made in support of these foreign jurisdictions." 1053 Hallam's Middle Ages, "The virtues, indeed, or supposed virtues, which had induced a credulous generation to enrich so many of the monastic orders, were not long preserved. We must reject, in the excess of our candour, all testimonies that the middle ages present, from the solemn declaration of councils and reports of judicial inquiry to the casual evidence of common fame in the ballad or romance, if we would extenuate the general corruption of those institutions. In vain new rules of discipline were devised or the old corrected by reforms. Many of their worst vices grew so naturally out of their mode of life, that a stricter discipline could have no tendency to extirpate them. Such were the frauds I have already noticed, and the whole scheme of hypocritical austerities. Their extreme licentiousness was sometimes hardly concealed by the cowl of sanctity. I know not by what right we should disbelieve the reports of the visitation under Henry VIII., entering as they do into a multitude of specific charges, both probable in their nature, and consonant to the unanimous opinion of the world. Doubtless, there were many communities as well as individuals, to whom none of these reproaches would apply. In the very best view, however, that can be taken of monasteries, their existence is deeply injurious to the general morals of a nation. They withdraw men of pure conduct and conscientious principles from the exercise of social duties, and leave the common mass of human vice more unmixed. Such men are always inclined to form schemes of ascetic perfection which can only be fulfilled in retirement; but, in the strict rules of monastic life, and under the influence of a grovelling superstition, their virtue lost all its usefulness. They fell implicitly into the snares of crafty priests, who made submission to the Church not only the condition but the measure of all praise." Hallam's Constitutional History, "The income of the monasteries prior to their dissolution in the reign of Henry VIII. has been variously estimated. Dr. Lingard, on the authority of Nasmith's edition of  Tanner's Notitia Monastica, Bartner's Observations on Burnet, 1054 "And better it had been that these revenues should thus from age to age have been expended in liberal hospitality, in discerning charity, in the promotion of industry and cultivation, in the active duties or ever generous amusements of life, than in maintaining a host of ignorant and inactive monks, in deceiving the populace by superstitious pageantry, or in the encouragement of idleness and mendicity." "It will be recollected that one of the measures that immediately preceded the Reformation of the Church of England was a measure for the suppression of the monasteries. That measure has been denounced by our Roman Catholic friends as a measure of robbery, and spoliation, and sacrilege; as a measure of such a character that none but a heretic could have devised it, and none but a tyrant could have sanctioned it. Perhaps, Sir, they are nearer the mark than they themselves are aware, for that measure, whatever was its character, was originally devised by a cardinal, and sanctioned by a Pope. The facts of the case
 1055 Fidei Defensor, 1056 1057 in loco parentis, 1058 Laughter. 1059 1060 habeas corpus. "The evidence being now complete, an application was made to the Court of Queen's Bench before Mr. Justice Wightman on the—day of July. After hearing counsel in support of the case for a writ of  habeas corpus, 1061 (this nun). "An application must, therefore, be made for a private interview with her, to ascertain if she were confined against her will; and, if refused, or, the permission being granted, she stated that she was so confined, then he would grant a writ. His Lordship said it was a most interesting and uncommon case; but as it was likewise a very important one, it was necessary that great circumspection should be used." "Having met, we proceeded to the convent, and arrived at the door at 11,35 on the 14th of July. Being opened, I presented my card to the servant, who was dressed in black, and on the request to see Mrs.—, the Mother Superior, we were shown into the visitors' waiting-room, a large, cheerless apartment, hung round with pictures of saints and small coloured engravings with plain ungilt frames. At the end of the room was a large counter covered with oil-cloth, which entirely reached across the room and divided it into two parts. Behind this was a door. We had been kept waiting for about a quarter of an hour when two nuns entered by the door behind the counter and inquired our business, stating that the Mother Superior was much engaged. I said that we could not communicate the purport of our visit except to her, upon which they retired, having first requested to be present at the interview. Again we were left alone for about a quarter of an hour, and had ample time to canvass the dress and the manners of the Sisters of the Benedictine Order of Nuns. What we both remarked, apart from their picturesque dress, was the total absence of soul or animated expression in their faces. There was a coldness and want of feeling in their manner which comported well with the appearance of the place, but it failed to impress or interest us in their behalf. If there was happiness in their hearts the outward and visible sign was sadly wanting. After waiting what appeared to us a long time, Mrs.—, the Mother Superior, entered, accompanied by two nuns. After saying that I presumed I was addressing the Mother Superior, to which she nodded assent, I told her that we had called as friends of Miss—and should be glad to be permitted to see her. She immediately replied that—was not there, as she had left the convent several months before—early in May. I affected surprise, and inquired where she had gone to. Without hesitation she replied that she left there for a convent at Staple-hill, near Wimborne, Dorsetshire; that she was not very well, and thought a change would be desirable. I expressed regret at not seeing her, and inquired particularly about her health, and whether she had heard from her. 'Oh, yes,' she re-
 1062 "So I said Miss—, I have no time for trifling. When I tell you that for months past I have had but one object in view to serve you, and if possible to come to your rescue, and to accomplish this interview it has cost me nearly one hundred pounds in my efforts to trace you, I think you will admit that, although I am a perfect stranger to you, I am at least entitled to your candour.' I shall not easily forget the earnest look which she gave me. 'Oh, how can I thank you enough,' she replied; 'I did not know I had such a friend.'…I then particularly inquired what her wish was, as if she still wished to leave the convent there was no law to prevent her doing so; and I promised her immediate assistance if she was confined against her will. 'No,' she said, 'I have no wish to leave now. Since I came here I have been treated so kindly it would be ingratitude in me to leave. The nuns here have treated me like a sister. No, I cannot leave now.' Again she repeated, 'No, I cannot, I must not leave now. I embraced the convent life and took "the veil at the early age of eighteen, with the earnest desire of devoting my best years to God, and serving Him in a way I then considered most for His glory, and I cannot now turn my back upon Him.' I saw that her resolution was taken, and that it was vain to attempt to shake it. It appeared likewise to be a relief to her, as if she had now time to arrange her thoughts, and she quietly said, 'What could I do if I left; all my relations and friends are Roman Catholics, and they would turn their backs upon me, and what do I know of life?'" 1063 "I then informed her of the many affidavits which had been prepared with a view to obtaining a writ of  habeas corpus 1064
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  had felt, when he saw the hon. Member's notice of Motion on the paper, that it had been given under some misapprehension, since the intention of the Bill was to carry out in the South African colonies those views of which the hon. Gentleman himself had always been an advocate. Here
 1095 1096 1097
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that according to the statement of the Governor, the laws of British Kaffraria were identical with those at the Cape.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Sir Henry Bulvver has gone from Cairo to make an inspection of the works of the Suez Canal; whether he will make an early Report on the subject; and whether such Report will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the Trans-kei territory had never been annexed to Kaffraria.
 MR. CARDWELL , in answer to Mr. ARTHUR MILLS said, that the laws at present existing in British Kaffraria would still remain in force, but that they might be altered by the local Parliament—of course, with the sanction of the Crown.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that as the sum required had not been stated by the Governor, he had been obliged to fix it himself.
 MR. CARDWELL , with reference to one question raised by the hon. Member (Mr. Arthur Mills), reminded the hon. Gentlemen that we could never be in a worse position to call upon the Cape Government to defend their own frontier than we were at present, and he believed, when the measure was adopted, the Imperial Parliament would be in a better position to deal with the whole subject.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign affairs, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been called
 1045
 MR. WHALLEY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) had deemed it important to associate him with the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, and he thought it was due to the House that he (Mr. Whalley) should explain somewhat of their respective relations. There was no Member of that House who had greater admiration for the just weight, the ability, and the natural influence that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire exercised in the debates in that House; but, at the same time, he must say that very few Members of that House had less communication than that hon. Member and himself. It was certainly unfortunate that those who took the Protestant views which were entertained by himself and the Member for North Warwickshire and by the late Member for that division (Mr. Spooner) should be in so different a position from that of the hon. Member for the King's County and those associated with him, who were compactly organized and hacked by great resources. ["Oh!"] Scarcely a day passed without some addition to their funds. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire told the House not long since of a case in which £40,000 had fallen into their hands—that day he saw in the newspapers that it was £90,000. He had taken
 1072 1073 1074 obiter dictum 1075 1076 1077
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in his concluding sentence the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire told them he did not ask for a remedy for the grievances of which he complained. That was not surprising, because all the stories which the hon. Member had repeated to the House, however marvellous in their
 1065 habeas corpus. 1066 1067 1068 1069 Catholic Directory,
 COLONEL SMYTH  could not concur with the hon. Member (Mr. Neate) in respect to what he had said about the election of the Governor of Wakefield Gaol. The charge was that it was something like a sham election, but it was nothing of the kind. He did not intend to go into the question whether or not the appointment should be vested in the magistrates. He should confine himself to the circumstances of the election which the hon. Gentleman had brought under the notice of the House. About this time last year the former Governor felt that from ill-health he could no longer fulfil the duties of the office. Advertizements for candidates were inserted in the papers, and the visiting justices were required to examine the testimonials of the various applicants. There were more than twenty candidates, and the visiting justices reduced the number to eight in the first instance and subsequently to five. The general body of magistrates were not, however, bound to confine their selection to some one out of the five names recommended by the visiting justices, and accordingly they selected Captain Armitage by a large majority. No doubt some surprise was expressed at the course taken by the magistrates. The truth was the captain's father bad been a most useful and respected magistrate, and his family was well-known in the Riding. He himself had not voted for Captain Armitage, but he felt bound to say that the gallant captain was a most distinguished officer, that he had served in the Kaffir war (not in the Crimea), and for some time had acted as Governor over some small district. Sir Harry Smith had spoken of him in the highest terms. In addition to the experience which he had gained abroad, he had been for some time staying with the late Governor of Wakefield Gaol (Mr. Shepherd), so that his want of official experience in gaol management was, to some extent, compensated for by the knowledge which he had gained while on a visit to the late Governor. Since Captain Armitage entered on his new office there was but one opinion as to the remarkable
 1091
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether Lieutenant General Lord de Ros, having accepted the appointment of Colonel of the 4th Hussars, will continue to hold the post of Deputy Lieutenant of the Tower.?
 MR. MARSH  thought this was the fairest Bill he had ever known proposed upon this subject, because in former attempts to deal with it the respective colonies were left to settle the limits by themselves. He hoped that the matter would be settled amicably at the Cape, and he certainly believed that one result of the arrangement would be a saving of expense to this country.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the table a List of Officers who have been seconded or made supernumerary in the Indian Artillery because of employment in miscellaneous Staff appointments, in conformity with the Despatch of the Secretary of State for India, No. 61, dated February 29, 1864, which was concurred in by the Secretary of State for War and his Royal Highness the Field Marshal Commanding-in-Chief; and, in the event of the Instructions therein contained not having been carried into effect, will he give the reasons for delay in obtaining them?
 MR. COLLINS  said, the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Neate) seemed to think that the executive Government only could make proper appointments, but he thought that matters might not be made much better by taking from the magistrates the patronage they now exercised and transferring it to that authority. If it were given to a Lord Chancellor, he might appoint his own son, for they had seen by a recent example what could be done in that way. If it were given to an Archbishop, even he might appoint one of his own family. He had not voted for Captain Armitage, the successful candidate; but, having made inquiries on the subject, he was bound to say that the gallant officer had given great satisfaction at Wakefield by the efficient manner in which he had discharged his duty since his appointment.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, he could not at present state when the clauses to be inserted in the Waterworks Bills will be laid upon the table. The subject was at present under consideration, and he hoped he might be able to give a more definite answer in the course of a few days.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he was sure the House would give him a hearing as it always did to any one who was personally con-
 1085 1086
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, When the Returns relative to the business transacted in the Sheriff Courts in Scotland, ordered by the House on the 6th June, 1864, will be laid upon the table?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, When the Clauses for protection of life and property to be inserted in Waterworks Bills will be laid upon the table of the House; and whether they will apply to existing Waterworks Reserviors?
 MR. MORRITT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, in case of a soldier being tried by General Court Martial, What time is allowed to elapse before the sentence is promulgated; and also whether it is true that a soldier in the Coldstream Guards was tried by a
 1043
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I can assure the hon. Member for Peterborough that I had no desire to stand in the way of his addressing the House. The hon. Gentleman began by saying that there was an impassable gulf between himself and the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, who brought forward the Motion; and I believe the House must feel that there is a wide distinction between the mode in which the latter dealt with the question and the tone adopted by the hon. Gentleman who spoke last. The hon. Member for Peterborough recommends calm and dispassionate inquiry—but his speech was hardly an illustration of the temper of mind in which the question ought to be discussed. Before dealing with the general subject, I will reply to the questions which the hon. Member has addressed to me. He says he holds me responsible for every act of every police magistrate within the metropolitan district—and he especially referred to what was said and done by Mr. Paynter in 1859, when I had not the honour to be Home Secretary. I need scarcely say I cannot accept such responsibility. The hon. Member also asks me to condemn the conduct of Mr. Arnold. I cannot do so. The case in question has not come before me in any shape. I saw the reports in the newspaper, as everybody else did, but I had no reason to suppose that Mr. Arnold did not on that, as on every other occasion, discharge his duty in the most conscientious manner. Again, the hon. Member asks whether in the M'Dermott case Mr. Selfe communicated with me? He did not—there was no occasion for his doing so. The case came before him for his judicial interposition, but it proved to be one in which he could not interfere as a magistrate. He then dealt with it in an extra-judicial manner, as might be inferred from his having con-
 1078 "In my opinion, Mary Ryan is still of unsound mind, labouring under a very common form of melancholia, with a suicidal tendency. I also think that she is not in a state to be safely taken care of out of an asylum." 1079 "Whether any and what regulations are necessary for the protection of the inmates of establishments of a conventual nature, and for the prevention of the exercise of undue influence in procuring the alienation of their property."—[See 3  Mansard, 1080
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I think an hon. Gentleman ought to trust a little to his own wisdom when he brings a subject before the House and asks for the inquiry of a Committee, and to show that some practical result is likely to be attained, and to state that, after inquiry has taken place, he will be prepared to recommend the House to take some legislative action. The hon. Gentleman does not do that; he merely wishes to obtain the information and lay it before the House, without taking any ulterior proceedings upon it. I should like to know what the hon. Gentleman's object is. Is it the inspection of these institutions, or is it, as I rather gathered from his speech, their absolute suppression? On what ground does he think that Parliament ought to interfere in this matter? Does he believe that there are many persons in a state of absolute physical coercion and restraint in these places, and that the law is unable to provide a remedy? I know that such a belief prevails very extensively, and is held by many people much more strongly than by the hon. Gentleman himself. There was sent to me a few days ago a copy of the  Bulwark, or Reformation Journal, "On the 9th of February a special meeting of the General Committee of the Protestant Alliance was held in London, when the following
 1081 "Your petitioners therefore pray your honourable House to institute an inquiry into the existence and condition of monastic and conventual establishments, and to take such means as shall secure the due observance of the law and the liberty of the subject." habeas corpus 1082 1083 Catholic Directory, Geo. 1084
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, What progress is making in the Ordnance Survey in the Southern Counties of England, and at what period he believes it probable that the Public will have the benefit of obtaining the corrected and enlarged Maps of any of those Counties, so much required, and for which there would be certain to be so large a demand? He complained that though a large sum had been expended, the South of England had not yet a map that was available for any purpose. The old Ordnance map is on a small scale, and incorrect, and is useless for the many purposes for which modern legislation requires maps and surveys. It was very undesirable that they should go on year after year with only small districts of the country supplied with maps available for purposes, which the Ordnance Survey was intended, and ought to meet. He alluded to inclosures of waste lands and other analogous operations. The last Report by Sir Henry James had
 1092
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir Henry Bulwer has been at Cairo, but has been confined by an attack of illness. Some time ago he paid a visit to the Suez Canal, but I do not believe he has lately done so. There is no Report from him to be laid before this- House.
 MR. SERJEANT KINGLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether any alteration has been or is about to be made in the system of storing Gunpowder in public or private magazines?
 MR. PEEL  said, he understood that the Inclosure Commissioners were disposed to recommend this Inclosure, and therefore doubted whether it would be proper to give such an undertaking as the hon. Member asked for. But, as the hon. Gentleman was aware, no inclosure could fake place until confirmed by an Act of Parliament, and when the Bill for that purpose was brought in it would be competent for the hon. Member to move the omission of the clause sanctioning this particular inclosure.
 MR. LESLIE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether or not Government intend to re-introduce the Cattle Diseases Prevention and Cattle, &c, Importation Bills as amended by a Select Committee of the House last Session?
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, in reply, that the Select Committee of last Session re-
 1118
 MR. LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether Government still intend to levy an assessment of £20,000 per annum on property at Hong Kong towards defraying the expense of maintaining the garrison there, and to lay upon the Table of the House Copies of all Correspondence with the local authorities, the Memorial of the resident community of Hong Kong, along with the reply of Her Majesty's Government relative to the proposed tax?
 LORD STANLEY : I rise, Sir, to put to Mr. Attorney General the question of which I have given him notice—namely, Whether the inquiry instituted by Government into certain alleged irregularities in the Accounts of the Patent Office has been concluded; whether the Report of the Commissioners appointed to conduct that inquiry will be laid upon the table; or, if that be considered inexpedient, whether he is prepared to state the conclusion to which they have come; and whether it is the intention of Government to found on such Report any proceedings either for the recovery of the sums alleged to be deficient or for the punishment of those who may be responsible for the loss.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, in answer to the question of the noble Lord, perhaps I may be permitted to state that the inquiry to which he refers was not strictly an inquiry instituted by the Government. It was instituted by the Lord Chancellor and the Commissioners of Patents, in consequence of information which reached them as to the existence of certain irregularities and disputes in the Patent Office, which did not in the first instance, except as regards inquiry into a prior matter supposed to be concluded, involve any question of pecuniary defalcation. Those inquiries, however, having been instituted, for the reason I have mentioned, led to two Reports from the gentlemen appointed to make the investigation, the first of which, a preliminary Report, was made in July last, and the second and final Report was presented in the month of January in the present year. The inquiry, therefore, has been concluded, and I should be perfectly prepared to lay on the table the Reports which have been made but for two reasons, which, when I state them, will, I think,
 1121 1122
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I have no information whatever upon the subject; but, as far as my judgment is concerned, I should think it would not be fair that he should receive any pension while the case is still undecided. With regard to the appointment of a Committee, I should humbly think that while civil proceedings are being carried on it would not be expedient that this House should take up the matter.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I have seen in the newspapers that the Lord Chancellor, upon the occurrence of the vacancy in a different place, has, in the exercise of the patronage which belongs to his office, appointed a gentleman who stands in that relation to his Lordship.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that no Memorial signed by the Officers of the Military Store Department as a body had been received. He might also state that no such Memorial would be received. It was contrary to the principles of discipline to allow such a Memorial signed collectively to be presented. A Memorial, however, had been received from individual Store Officers representing their grievances, and was still under consideration. The principal grievance complained of was want of promotion, and stagnation of progress; but that had arisen, as far as he was aware, from exceptional circumstances. It would not be desirable to communicate to the House any correspondence which had taken place between the
 1124
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that as far back as 1841 the question had been before the House. It was gravely considered, and a Select Committee was appointed to ascertain whether or not it was desirable that the Government should exercise control over the railways. Mr. Labouchere, now Lord Taunton, was then at the Board of Trade, and was of opinion that that power should be vested in his department. Being himself at that time Inspector General of Railways, and the first officer appointed to that post, he was himself also then of opinion that power should be vested, as now proposed by his hon. Friend, in the Board of Trade. The proposition was, however, opposed by the Stephensons, the Brunels, and all the leading men of that day connected with railways, and after a long investigation it was the opinion of the Committee, which was composed of many
 1131 1132
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, in rising to move the Navy Estimates for the year 1865–6 I find that, in addition to the many interesting topics on which this House and the public are very naturally and properly desirous of receiving information—and which information I have always been anxious to give—it is my duty on the present occasion to make a very large and somewhat novel proposal to the House concerning the construction of docks and basins, not only in the United Kingdom, but also in the colonies. With so many
 1147 1148 s. s. s. Edgar, Black Prince, Wolverine, 1149 Enterprise, 1150 1151 s. d., s. d. s. d. s. d. 1152 s. s 1153 personnel 1154 1155 Northumberland, Northumberland
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Not
 1156 Royal Alfred Royal Alfred Waterwitch Waterwitch
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the proposals of the Government with reference to the points alluded to by the hon. Member would be fully explained in the course of his statement on the Naval Estimates.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in reply, said, it was his intention to lay on the table in a few days detailed plans of the extension of Portsmouth Dockyard, and, moreover, he proposed to place in the library of the House models of the works for the information of Members.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : No; the vessel is propelled by a volume of water
 1157 Warrior, Black Prince, Achilles, Minotaur, Agincourt, Northumberland, Bellerophon. Lord Clyde, Royal Oak, Prince Consort, Ocean, Caledonia, Royal Alfred, Lord Warden. Zealous, Hector, Valiant, Defence, Resistance, Favourite, Research, Enterprise, Pallas, Viper, Vixen, Waterwitch; Royal Sovereign, Prince Albert, Scorpion, Wyvern. versus Bellerophon Warrior Hercules, Bellerophon, 1158 Bellerophon, Alabamas. Alabama. 1159 1160 "Your Committee, before concluding their Report, think it right to direct attention to the evidence of two eminent civil engineers, Mr. M'Lean and Mr. Coode, from which it appears that a great saving of expense, both of employment of plant and in supervision, would result from diminishing, as much as practicable, the time to be occupied in completing the proposed extension of the dockyards, a point of considerable importance in all
 1161 1162
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : They are all included in the first column of the Estimate, which includes the whole cost of the works, and is based on the supposition that we contract for the whole work, using convict labour for tidal and dirty work. What we propose to take for Chatham Dockyard for next year is £70,000. Everybody knows that on the commencement of a great work it is of no use to ask for a very large sum the first year; in fact, it could not be expended. You must get your contracts complete. You must induce contractors to bring sufficient plant upon the
 1163
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The land to be taken is Government land to be reclaimed from the sea, subject to certain rights of the inhabitants of Portsmouth, which have been already dealt with under an Act passed last year. I now come to Keyham Dockyard. Here we do not propose this year to follow the recommendation of the Committee of last year, to which I have already adverted. We propose to defer the construction of additional basins or docks until the enlargement of the basin now going on at Key-ham is finished. That work will itself be a great improvement, and when completed there will arise the question of going on with the further works. I may also say that we will lay on the table of the House plans of the proposed extensions at Key-bam. I come next to the new works proposed at Cork, which are in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. We propose constructing a large dock in the neighbourhood of Haulbowline, on an eligible site close to the island, where there is a small naval establishment already. Here, again, we shall have the assistance of convict labour, but we shall undertake the more important part of the work by contract. The entire cost of that work is £150,000, of which we propose to take this year only £5,000, because that is all that can be expended in the preliminary preparations.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I should be very glad to state the time to the Committee, but that will depend on the decision of the House as to what sum should be voted annually towards this dock. I will afterwards give more specific views on
 1164 1165 1166 con amore 1167 1168 1169 Victoria Victoria, s. 1170 1171 Bombay Racehorse,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I overstated it just now by mistake. We have 1,225 men now ready, exclusive of boys, and 200 and odd boys, making up 1,500 altogether.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, if the hon. and gallant Gentleman desired that he should answer him, he would hand him over a paper by which he would see that the men were all seamen, and available, to go on board ship at any moment.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  intimated that he should proceed with the Estimates early on Thursday next.
 MR. LEFROY  thought, that the public
 1135
 MR. SEELY  said, that as he believed none of the facts mentioned by him on a former occasion had been attempted to be controverted by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, though some of his statements had been described by his hon. Friend the hon. Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) as erroneous. Considering the great importance attached to statements made in that House, it was desirable that every Member should, as far as possible, be accurate in what he asserted. The statement he had made was simply that he believed—as he certainly believed now, notwithstanding the denial of the hon. Gentleman—that certain ships had been repaired at an excessive cost, and in one or more cases at a cost exceeding what a new vessel might have been built for. The hon. Gentleman thought that he had made a mistake, and that in speaking of
 1197 Falcon s d. s d. Falcon Falcon, Falcon Falcon 1198 s. s 1199 1200
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that on a previous evening the hon. Gentleman had stated that this information was in the Poor Law Office. There, however, it was not, but he had made inquiry and found that the information was sent to the only Office it was likely to be sent to—the Registrar General's Office; and the Registrar General had sent to say that he hoped the Return would be opposed, as it would give a great deal of trouble.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he rose to explain, and was proceeding to say that the Return was not in the Poor Law Office, when—
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that the Committee on the Poor Laws had recommended that the Poor Law Board should have the same power in Unions under the Gilbert's Act as in those constituted under the Poor Law Amendment Act, and accordingly when introducing a Bill for the renewal of the Commission he should make provision for that purpose.
  SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, his hon. Friend seemed to be under some misapprehension as to the re-employment of Native Artillery in India. Certain portions of the Native Artillery had never been discontinued. [Mr. VANSITTART: Not since the mutiny?] No. The Commission which sat in this country recommended that the artillery attached to the army in India should consist of Europeans, exceptions, however, being made in the case of particular stations where it was inexpedient to employ Europeans. Hence, as a rule, wherever troops were quartered the artillery consisted of Europeans; but in places where exposure to a very hot sun rendered it dangerous for white troops to be placed the duty was discharged by a Native force. Those Indian artillerymen, however, were only in charge of two or three guns at any one point, and were scattered about in very small numbers all over the country. The course adopted with regard to them was, therefore, entirely in accordance with the recommendations of the Indian Commission, which determined that a large special force of Native Artillery should no longer be maintained. The European artillery at present in India numbered between 12,000 and 13,000 men. The hon. Member appeared to think the aggregate European force disproportioned to the Native levies. The fact was that it was larger in proportion than at any previous period. Before the mutiny the Native army consisted of 265,000 men, and it has since been reduced to 114,000 men. So far from the of-
 1119
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that it was intended to adhere to the arrangement by which the Colony of Hong Kong was called on to pay the very reasonable contribution of £20,000 a year to its military and naval defence. If the hon. Member would move for the Papers, he (Mr. Cardwell) should be perfectly ready to give them.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he would repeat that the information was in the Poor Law Office, and the right hon. Gentleman's opposition was a paltry attempt to prevent the country from obtaining the information.
 MR. KNIGHT  moved for Returns showing the number of Inhabitants and Inhabited Houses in each of the 821 Agricultural Parishes stated as having decreased in houses, and increased in population, between 1851 and 1861; in each Census from 1801 to 1861; and, showing what manufactures or mines, if any, are carried on or worked in each of the said Parishes, if the Census contain such information.
 MR. BENTINCK , who had given notice of a Motion upon this subject said, as his name stood first upon the list, he must state in reply to the appeal of the noble Lord that nothing could give him more regret than to do anything which might appear discourteous to the noble Lord or to those who had the conduct of the public business. But he must beg to differ from the noble Lord as to the propriety of hon. Members losing their rights. The noble Lord had said that hon. Members who wished to bring forward Motions relating to other subjects had an ample opportunity of doing so. But the noble Lord was under a misconception, for since the change was made in conducting the business of the House, and Friday was assigned to private Members, they had no security for being able to bring on their Motions, In numberless instances the House had been counted out on such occasions. He should, therefore, proceed with the Motion of which he had given
 1125 "It is therefore the opinion of the Committee that it is incumbent on the Board of Trade to apply to Parliament for such further powers as might enable them to carry out the recommendations which the Committee believed to be calculated to diminish the number of railway accidents." 1126 1127 1128
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that after the statement made by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade (Mr, Milner Gibson) to the effect that this question would be considered by a Royal Commission which was about to issue, he would not trouble the House by dividing.
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he would beg in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Doulton) to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether his attention has been called to a Provisional Order of the Inclo-sure Commissioners for the apportionment of Fulmer Common, within twenty miles of London, and four miles of the towns of Slough and Uxbridge, and whether he will undertake that all further action shall be
 1117
 MR. THOMPSON  believed, that there was nothing which railway directors had so much at heart as the prevention of accidents; and if he thought one serious accident would be prevented by that Resolution he would give it his most cordial support. Instead, however, of its doing that, he was decidedly of opinion that the first part of the Resolution was unnecessary, and that the second would be mischievous. The first part was unnecessary because the Board of Trade now had and constantly exercised the power of instituting inquiry in cases of accidents and of calling for papers. The second part, requiring the Board of Trade to frame regulations for the management of railways, would be
 1130 few
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR : I wish to ask the hon. and learned Attorney General whether Mr. Edmunds will be in the receipt of the pension of £800 a year until the case is cleared up; and whether, as the case appears to be extremely complicated, he does not think it advisable to move for a Committee of the House for the purpose of inquiry into the matter?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, his hon. Friend had made his remarks in a very temperate tone, and he should endeavour to follow him in that respect, but it was his duty, speaking for the Admiralty, to ask whether this was a subject with which the House could advantageously deal. Here were 16,000 men employed in a public Department and distributed among the principal maritime stations of this country. Now, so long as the Executive Government were responsible for the management of these dockyards, and were constantly told by both sides of the House that dockyard work ought to be more economically executed, and that ships might be more economically constructed in private than in the Royal yards, was it right that hon.
 1144 d. d. d. 1145 1146 s. s. s.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I wish to know whether, in point of fact, Mr. Edmunds has received a pension for good services?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the right hon. Gentleman was not in order.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If their Lordships have considered the suggestions contained in the following paragraph of the Report of the Select Committee on Dockyards, of 15th July, 1864, namely—
 "In recommending projects which will, if carried out, involve a large additional expenditure, your Committee do not think it beyond their duty to suggest that it is worthy of consideration whether Deptford, Woolwich, and Pembroke Dockyards might not be suppressed altogether, and disposed of, and the business now carried on in them transferred to the Yards to which such important and costly additions are in progress or in prospect. In all probability the money realized by the sale of these valuable sites would provide a considerable sum towards meeting the capital
 1120
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table Copies of the Plans finally approved by the Admiralty for the extension of Portsmouth Dockyard, the estimated cost of which, as stated in the Navy Estimates of this year, is £1,500,000?
 MR. RICHARD HODGSON  observed, that one of the statements of his hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk was almost incredible, namely, that, as he had been informed, no less than nineteen of the servants of a particular railway company had been killed and forty-five railway servants had been wounded, in consequence of the numbers of accidents which had occurred, occasioned by the failure on the part of the company to make arrangements, and afford proper accommodation at a particular junction and terminus, and that a sum of £20,000 would have been sufficient to have removed the cause of those disasters. Now, until he heard the name of the company and the place where the accidents happened, he (Mr. Hodgson) must withold his belief from the possibility of such a statement being true. He could not believe that any board of directors would run the risk of such a number of accidents for the sake of an expenditure of £20,000 to improve any station or junction. He for one should have no objection to such an alteration in the law as the hon. Member for West Norfolk suggested, provided that the Board of Trade, in issuing their regulations for the conduct of the railway traffic, would also assume the responsibility of any accidents occurring in consequence. He believed, however, that such a system, instead of preventing accidents, would tend greatly to increase their number. With regard to the preliminary investigation proposed to be made by the officers sent down by the Government in the case of accidents, it appeared to him that
 1136
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his hon. Friend had not quite correctly represented the responsibility which was now undertaken by the Board of Trade in reference to railways. The Board of Trade did not sanction or make itself responsible that any railway was as perfect as it could be previous to the opening. All it did was this—to send an inspecting officer, who was to report as to the condition of the permanent way, locomotive power, and so on; and if the Board of Trade thought on that Report there was such an amount of danger to the public that the line ought not to be opened, they prevented its being opened for public traffic. If they did nothing on the Inspector's Report the line would be opened "as a matter of course. With regard to the Board of Trade undertaking to make particular regulations for the traffic on railways he thought the remarks of the hon. and gallant Officer who had just sat down ought to have weight. The hon. and gallant Officer spoke with authority, for he had experience as one of the first Inspectors General of Railways; he, therefore, knew what power a Government Department could usefully exercise with reference to the regulation of the traffic on railways. With regard to the first part of the Motion of his hon. Friend, he thought it was unnecessary that on the occasion of every accident a public inquiry should take place and evidence be taken on oath. That
 1133 1134
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that, after full consideration, it had been determined that the Bye Law should not be proceeded with.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : On that subject, the Treasury and myself have no information whatever. We have no cognizance of the proceedings of the 'other House. I, individually, am appointed according to usage to share along with you, Sir, and under your presidency, in awarding pensions to officers of this House; but the Treasury has no authority whatever with regard to the grant of any pensions by the other House of Parliament to its own servants, nor have I any knowledge whatever with respect to the point in question, except from the items open to the whole public in the books of that House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am not quite sure that I can add anything to what has fallen from my hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General; hut, as far as I am aware, no proceedings have been taken against Mr. Edmunds up to the present time. I am not sure that I understand the facts to which the hon. Member refers, but I believe the gentleman has been appointed to whom he has alluded.
 MR. FERRAND : Sir, in asking the permission of the House to bring under its notice the great inequality of the wages paid to men employed in dockyards, I am sorry I cannot assent to the recommendation of the noble Viscount to postpone my Motion in order that he might at once proceed with the consideration of the Naval Estimates in Committee. There are no less than 16,000 men employed in the various Royal dockyards, every one of whom, I may say, takes a deep interest in this question. The artificers of Her Majesty's dockyards constitute a body of men of the greatest value to the country, and are second to none of Her Majesty's servants in their utility and loyalty. Many of them are descended from the earliest builders and constructors of the Royal Navy. They have made repeated claims upon the Admiralty, all of which have been neglected or
 1137 s. s. s. d. "That in private yards day-work shipwrights, or men occupying an equivalent position, expect 7 s. s 1138 is. 6d. d. Hansard d. d. s. s. s. s d. d. d. s d. 1139 "If the Admiralty contend that superannuation is given as a compensation or equivalent for the scale of wages paid in Royal dockyards, then, in reply, I state that not 3 per cent of the men ever live to get superannuation at all. This is a fact, and can be proved; and those men who do leave the yard upon their superannuations do not, on an average, enjoy their pensions more than from three to five years. Again, when it is considered that the wages of the Royal dockyards are so much under private yards, the men, by receiving so much less wages, are actually contributing towards the superannuation fund all the years they work; and as only one man to every thirty receives superannuation the country positively benefits, as insurance companies do, by mulcting the men of their proper wages." s. d. "The numbers who live to benefit by the superannuation fund amount only to about 2 per cent." "Statement showing the Average Rate of Wages in Private and Royal Dockyards. Shipwrights.—Birkenhead, 7 s. s. d.; s. s. d. s. d. Joiners.—London, 6 s. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. Smiths.—Average, 6 s. s. d. Sailmakers.—London, 6 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1140 Riggers.—Liverpool, first class, 5 s. d.; s. s. d. s. d. Ropemakers.—Liverpool, average, 5 s. s. d. Sawyers.—Average, topmen, 4 s. d. s. s. d. s. Labourers.—London, 3 s. d. s. d.; s. s. d. s. d. Bonded Warehousemen.—Country averages, 5 s. s. d. s. In the Royal yards these men are under a bond of £100 for the safe custody of stores" "He was quite aware that the artificers of Her Majesty's dockyards did not receive that amount of pay which they might get in the private trade; and that remark applied not only to the joiners but to all the artificers. He should be very glad if the Admiralty could comply with the reasonable desires of the artificers, because he knew their merits; and if they waited patiently for a short time, as the establishment was very nearly down to its proper number, a flow of promotion into it would take place which he was positive would be satisfactory. Hon. Gentlemen should remember when they talked of increasing the pay in the dockyards that they had some 16,000 or 17,000 men to deal with, and to increase it even by sixpence a day, which was no very large addition after all, would make a difference of upwards of £100,000 a year. Speaking conscientiously of the matter, there was not the least doubt that the men in Her Majesty's dockyards were not paid at the full market value for labour of that description. But then they had many advantages over the men in private yards. For instance, their employment was continuous, but in private yards shipwrights were often discharged on a wet day and received no pay. Again, the artificers of Her Majesty's yards when hurt were allowed to receive half their pay.—[3  Hansard 1141 1142 s d. "That having considered the subject of superannuation in reference to the workmen of the factories, the Committee are of opinion that as they are necessarily working in combination with the men of the dockyards, it will be expedient to devise a system by which provision shall be made for the old and valued servants in the factories when incapacitated by age for further work. The Committee have come to this conclusion from the conviction on their minds that after the factories shall have existed for a lengthened period, and after a number of old workmen of merit and long service shall have been discharged therefrom on account of their age, claims for a superannuation allowance by these men would be made with a force that it would be impossible to resist." d. 1143 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If any reply has been given to the Memorial of the Officers of the Military Store Department; and, if not, when a reply may be expected; and, whether there is any objection to lay the Memorial and the Reply upon the table?
 MR. MITFORD  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he intends to bring in a Bill this Session to carry out the recommendations of the Poor Law Committee with respect to Unions and Parishes under Gilbert's Act?
 COLONEL SYKES : Does the Estimate include the price of land to be taken?
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When it was determined to re-employ Native Artillery in India, which by a Return just issued amounts to 2,052 men; and how many of the 68,336 European Troops in India are Artillery; and whether he proposes to maintain the disproportionate strength of 68,336 Europeans as against 274,713 Native Troops, Native Police, and other Native organized levies?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I think, Sir, I said during the discussion the other night that it was not my intention to introduce a general measure on the subject this Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, he had answered a similar question some time ago. Inquiry had been made under his direction by Colonel Boxer as to private magazines; and a Committee of five officers had been appointed by the Secretary of State for War to inquire into the storage of gunpowder in Government magazines. That Committee had not yet made its final Report; but he hoped before long a Bill on the subject would be laid before Parliament.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE : I wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the Lord Chancellor, having originated these proceedings against this gentleman, did not, when he was able to turn him out of office, appoint his own son in his place, and whether that is not a question of more gravity than the charge which was brought forward against Lord Chelmsford on a former occasion?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE : I wish, Sir, to put a question to the hon. and learned Gentleman, and it is this—whether the Lord Chancellor has appointed his son to the office vacated by Mr. Edmunds?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he could corroborate what had fallen from his hon. Friend on this subject, but as he understood that hon. Gentlemen who had notices on the paper on going into the Committee were acceding to the request of the noble Lord by postponing them, he should reserve his observations until the Vote came on for discussion in Committee.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  hoped that a fuller explanation would be given by the noble Lord at the proper time. With regard to the  Royal Sovereign, 1193 1194 Britannia 1195 1196 Conway Eagle Eagle Eagle, Conway Winchester. Winchester Conway,
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that the indictment against the Admiralty was that they, having received very large sums of money—much more than had been granted to any other Board in modern times—had squandered it upon vessels which, in the opinion of every naval man, were utterly incapable of keeping the sea. Within the last five years numerous changes had taken place in naval architecture; and yet during the last five years they had seen dispersed the best school of naval architecture in the world. They had forced such men as Mr. Watts, Mr. Oliver Lang, and many others, to retire from the service, having been forced out of it by the most invidious conduct on the part of their superiors; and they had employed a man in the construction of the navy whose first production was an abortion. The  Research 1188 Rattler, Warrior, Black Prince, Defence, Resistance, Warrior Black Prince Defence Resistance Royal Oak, Caledonia, Zealous, Prince Consort, Victoria "If you were to put them (a large number of supernumeraries) on board of armour-plated ships, the men would, from want of ventilation, speedily become utterly useless, and have to go into hospital. I ask would the people of this country be satisfied if they heard that we cramped up our men, and caused fevers and diseases to break out among them, because we had thought fit to put them on board such ships as were only fit to go immediately into action." 1189 Trusty, Royal Sovereign, Prince Consort Royal Sovereign Bombay 1190 Harlequin, Pearl, Harlequin Royal Alfred, Caledonia Prince Consort; 1191 1192 Victoria Royal Sovereign;" " Warrior." Victoria." Victoria Royal Sovereign Warrior.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I am exceedingly glad to have it so clearly stated that there are now 1,500 men and boys available. It is certainly a most important matter. 1174 1175 1176 1177 Defence Resistance. Defence Resistance 1178 Northumberland, Agincourt, Minotaur, 1179 Northumberland Northumberland, Caledonia Caledonia, Royal Oak, Prince Consort, Ocean, Lord Clyde, Lord Warden, Royal Alfred, Zealous, Hector, Valiant. Hector Valiant, Royal Alfred Zealous, Royal Oak, Prince Consort, Hector, Valiant, Royal Oak Prince Consort, Hector Valiant. Royal Oak Prince Consort Hector Valiant. 1180 "I have no doubt whatever that in plating ships entirely the seagoing qualities are destroyed; and the opinions of all officers, including those who have seen the  Hector Prince Consort Research, Prince Consort 1181 Prince Consort, Hector, Valiant, Royal Alfred Zealous, Zealous Royal Alfred 1182 Royal Alfred The Times "It must be evident, therefore, that but slight 'backing' power will be given by the sides of the  Royal Alfred The Times Royal Alfred 1183 Prince Alfred. Prince Alfred Prince Alfred Royal Sovereign. Royal Sovereign 1184 Royal Sovereign. 1185 per saltum, Enterprise Research 1186 "As regards the other vessels which I am superintending—the  Research Favourite Enterprise Enterprise, "The  Enterprise, Research, Favourite Favourite Enterprise Research, Research. Research Research Research 1187 Bombay
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Is the cost of the works you are now about to describe included in these Estimates?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : The noble Lord has given, with his usual clearness, his annual statement to the House—a statement which includes unavoidably a great mass of details—but I am sorry to say that in that long statement of details the noble Lord has not removed that desire which I expressed on a former occasion, when I called for certain explanations with reference to what I deem the most important parts of the subject—I mean, of course, those which relate to the actual condition of the navy, and to which he has adverted in the briefest possible manner. In the early part of his statement the noble Lord seemed to boast of his candour, and said that even if the Admiralty had any shortcomings, they were not kept secret. But those shortcomings, if not kept secret, have hardly been touched upon by the noble Lord in the long statement he has
 1172 Victoria 1173
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  inquired whether this ship was a screw vessel?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  inquired when it was probable that the  Northumberland
 SIR MORTON PETO  moved to report Progress.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : Within what time is it expected the works will be finished?
 MR. CAVE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What course he intends to adopt with reference to the proposed Bye Law of the Trinity Board under which Pilots are to be prohibited from owning Steam Tugs?
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, the House having refused to deal with the Licensing Laws by any Private Bill, he now intends to introduce any public or general measure for remedying the evils inflicted on the public by those Laws?
 MR. JACKSON , in seconding the Amendment, thought a divided responsibility one of the worst evils that could exist in this matter. The Government would not take upon themselves any responsibility for the management of the railways, and yet they claimed the power of overriding them. A line could hardly be opened without their consent, and they sent down men to inspect railways who had never assisted in the making of a single mile—putting inexperienced men over men who were experienced. But while they assumed all that power they declined to adopt any responsibility, and the public did not know to whom they were to look. It seemed to him singular that the Board of Trade should be averse to do that by law which they at present did illegally.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  remarked, that having been a member of the Committee for Naval Promotion and Retirement, he felt bound to make a few observations upon the grave catalogue of grievances which had been brought before the House by hon. Members sitting near him, He should wait anxiously to hear the answer of the noble Lord to those accusations, as it appeared to him that they might just as well have thrown the enormous sums of money into the sea as to have expended it upon the fleet. But he (Sir William Miles) knew nothing of naval architecture, and would address himself to the matter which had come under his attention. He regretted that the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone) did not touch upon one class of men in the navy who were badly treated—the engineers. He thought a great number of their complaints had been met; but there was one grievance came out before the Committee which constituted one of the greatest difficulties they had to deal with. It appeared that these men, who were subjected to the heat of tropical climates, most oppressive to the constitution, and rendering them less able to stand the
 1201 Navy List,
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  hoped they might be allowed to take one Vote that night. ["No no!"]
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I would beg respectfully to submit to hon. Members who have upon the paper notices preliminary to going into Committee of Supply the public inconvenience arising from the indefinate postponement of discussion upon the great heads of the public service. The Navy Estimates stand for to-day, and notice was given of them a week ago, but we were prevented twice from bringing them on. It would really be a great convenience to the public service if hon. Gentlemen would permit my noble Friend (Lord Clarence Paget) to make his statement. Hon. Members must remember that they have ample opportunities on Fridays by the practice of the House for Motions upon going into Committee of Supply. I would therefore submit that they should permit the Navy Estimates to come on this evening.
 MR. WHITE  seconded the Amendment.
 Mr. HENLEY : The concluding sentence of the right hon. Gentleman's speech is so remarkably in contrast with the main part of his observations that I feel considerable difficulty in knowing how to answer him. He asked us in the first part of his speech to look at the whole of the taxation put on alcoholic drinks, and he told us that we must be tender in touching that precious edifice of £20,000,000, yet in the last part of the speech he asked the House not to pass the Resolution, but to trust to the justice of his Colleague, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who would deal with these matters fairly and properly. But was not this precious edifice of £20,000,000 broken in upon when the Chancellor of the Exchequer dealt with foreign wines and French brandy? We did not then hear anything about this consecrated edifice of £20,000,000, yet directly any proposition is made to deal moderately with this tax on home produce and consumption, we are to be frightened by being accused of doing something to damage public credit. The right hon. Gentleman thinks the farmers have been considerably deluded on this subject. If so, they must have deluded themselves, because the movement with respect to the Malt Tax has been quite spontaneous on their part. There have been reductions of duty on very many articles in this country within the last twenty years, and the diminution in price has been followed by an enormous increase of consumption, more than recouping the amount of duty taken off. Do you suppose that the farmers have not observed this result, and can you wonder if they conclude that
 1293
 MR. HENLEY : The right hon. Gentleman certainly spoke of the retail price of beer, because he went through a beautiful calculation giving the number of quarts and gallons, and told us that two bushels of malt would produce thirty-six gallons of beer, and that the duty would be 12½ per cent. I thought that he had worked out the
 1294 4d. 6d. 6d. 6d, s. 2s., 5d. 5d. s. d.; d. 1295 1296 1297 1298
 MR. COWPER  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Commissioners of
 1302
 MR. COWPER  said, there were two ways in which property could be purchased for these public offices. One was that proposed by Lord Llanover for buying all that could be ultimately wanted. The House, however, was unwilling to spend a large sum of money for remote and uncertain needs, and the other plan was adopted of asking the House to vote such sums of money as were wanted for immediate use. The purchase which he now proposed had been contemplated from the beginning, and the next purchase contemplated was that of the block of buildings between Parliament Street and King Street, that would be immediately in front of the eastern elevation of the new offices. There was less urgency for taking the latter property, inasmuch as the greater part of the fee simple of those houses was in possession of the Government, and the leaseholds did not increase in value as the freeholds. What was now proposed was to purchase the property on the south side of the Downing Street site; on which adequate offices for the public service for some time to come could be built. When the Foreign Office was completed the erection of the Colonial Office would be commenced, and further offices would afterwards be provided. But there was no necessity for forcing on an expenditure before the time came when such expenditure was necessary. The northern boundary of the new offices would be Downing Street, on the west would be the Park, and on the east Parliament Street, when the block of houses was pulled down; but if this property were not purchased the southern boundary would be a narrow street of squalid, low houses, and the effect of the buildings on that side would be totally spoiled. It was therefore necessary that that street should be widened. The surplus portion of land between Charles Street and Gardner's Lane, which would not be wanted for this improvement, could be sold with advantage, and the Indian Department would only follow the usual course in selling the land which was not required for their purposes. The portion which wa3 opposite to the other public offices comprehended the police station, and he did not propose to purchase that or to dispossess its present occupiers. The actual cost that would fall upon the country would be about £30,000, and an Estimate would be laid before the House in due course, but it was necessary, in order to save the Session, that this Bill should
 1305
 MR. PACKE  moved the adjournment of the Debate.
 MR. PACKE : We have the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Bill before the House was of exactly the same character as five or six Acts which were upon the statute-books, all of which had been introduced in the same manner, and which, indeed, could not, by the rules of the House, have been introduced in any other way.
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped that the Government did not hold that the houses occupied by honest poor persons were not respectable houses. He also hoped the interests of the humbler classes would be considered by the Government.
 MR. LYGON  referred to the proposal for authorizing the Government to purchase lands and buildings in South Kensington, which was introduced in a Committee of the Whole House—a plan which should
 1308
 MR. LYGON  thought the right hon. Gentleman had not given information that was relevant to the question. He had not told them from what funds he expected to derive the £30,000 that would be required. [Mr. COWPER: To be voted by Parliament.] He submitted that in that case the rules of the House came into play. It concerned a grant of money, and therefore involved a charge upon the public. In a book, which was a high authority upon that subject— May's Law and Practice of Parliament
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he wished to know whether the Bill would place the House in the position of house and land jobbers. According to the statements of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) it was proposed to lodge police in the place of poor people who now lived in a set of squalid buildings, and the right hon. Gentleman had stated that he was only following the example of the Marquess of Westminster, who, it should be remembered, however, had dealt most liberally with the poor people who were deprived of their habitations; his Lordship having taken care that they should be provided with cheap and better accommodation.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  should first like to know what the English and Irish taxpayers would have to pay for these public buildings. The present Government seemed to ignore economy altogether, and quite to disregard the expenditure of public money.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  strongly urged the policy of purchasing the houses between the new Foreign Office and Great George Street. It would turn out the best economy in the end; and if, three years ago—as he had suggested—the purchase of this block of houses had been carried into effect there would have been a great saving of public money.
 MR. NEATE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. NEATE  rose to move the following Amendment to the Motion:—
 "That, considering the immunities from taxation now enjoyed by the owners and occupiers of land, they are not entitled to any special consideration on account of the pecuniary pressure of the Malt Tax; and that, if, on other grounds, that tax should be reduced or abolished, compensation to the Revenue should be sought, in the first instance, by withdrawing from landed property the advantage it now has over other property in the shape of total exemption from Probate Duty and partial exemption from Succession Duty and Income Tax." 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  did not think any charge would ultimately be thrown on the revenues of either of this country or of India by the proposed arrangement. The House had formerly rejected the scheme of Lord Llanover, to purchase all the buildings between Downing Street and Great George Street, and the Government now proposed to take only the amount of property which was absolutely necessary for the erection of the buildings. The Government believed they would make a very good bargain by purchasing the freehold under the Bill, as it would give them ground not only for public offices, but also for the erection of a better class of houses in the neighbourhood of those offices. The Government were only doing what was being done by the Marquess of Westminster, and there was no fear of their losing money by the purchase, as they
 1303
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  repudiated the idea of any attack having been made upon the Marquess of Westminster, who, in the improvement of his property, had acted like a man of common sense. The mode which the Government proposed to adopt was one which had been uniformly followed. Streets were to be widened, and ground was to be sold for the purpose of contributing towards the expenses. The only object of the Bill was to obtain power to take the property that was necessary.
 SIR BULWER LYTTON : Sir, I rise to second the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend. In his able and exhaustive speech he did not exaggerate the importance attached to the relief from the Malt Tax by the great body of agricultural producers; and the amount of the tax, which, no doubt, seems to many Gentlemen the strong reason for retaining it, seems to the farmers the strongest argument in favour of its repeal. What the farmers say is this, When you tell us that this tax produces £6,000,000 a year, you only bring more vividly before our eyes the extent to which we are defrauded in the fair exercise of our industry and skill. Here you call in free trade in order to compel us to vie with the corn-growers throughout the world, and when in this struggle we turn to that crop on which we ought most to rely, because in that crop we are most a match for the foreigner, your free trade resolves itself into a tax of £6,000,000 on our raw ma-
 1243 d. 1244 1245 1246 1247 1248 1249 1250 1251
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : Sir, before proceeding with the Motion of which I have given notice—
 "That upon any future remission of Indirect Taxation, this House should take into consideration the Duty on Malt, with a view to its early reduction and ultimate repeal," 1224 1225 "You must so adapt and adjust your measures as not to bear on the comforts of the labouring classes of society."—[3  Hansard, 1226 1227 "If you will repeal the Corn Laws, and extend what you perhaps justly call the principles of free trade to agriculture and the produce of the land, listen first to the farmer." He says, "Extend the same principle to everything else as well as to corn—do not make me the sole victim of this excellent doctrine—let me grow my own tobacco, let me manufacture and consume my own malt. And what (continues Sir Robert Peel), what answer have you to the farmer? Can you deny the justice of his appeal?"—[See 3  Hansard, 1228 The Economist. The Economist. s. s. 1229 8d. s. s. s. s., s. 5s., s s., s. s., s., s. s. s. 1230 5s. s. s. s. 1231 s. d. d. s. d. d. d. d. s. s. s. 1232 1233 1234 ad valorem 1235 1236 ad valorem s. 2s. A laugh. s. s. d. s. s. s. 1237 s. s. s., s., s., s. s. 2d. s. 2d. s. 1238 4d. 1239 16d., s. s. d., d. d. s. d. d; d., d. d. s. 4d. s. s. 1240 s. s. s. 1241 in to to. 1242
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought that Government was going to undertake the business of a building society; and as to private landowners, they waited until the leases fell in and the houses could be advantageously acquired before they pulled them down. The speculation of the Government might turn out to be profitable, but it was certainly quite novel.
 MR. THOMPSON  was willing to admit that the Malt Tax WAS a bad tax, but if every bad tax was to be repealed he was afraid there would be very few taxes. But before they adopted a Resolution which would tie the hands, not only of the present Chancellor of the Exchequer but of many future holders of that office, it should be shown that the proposed relaxation would
 1267 1268 1269
 MR. PEASE  demurred altogether to the proposal of the Government to buy land on a building speculation.
 MR. WHITESIDE  understood that what was wanted was to learn from the noble Viscount something which, with his usual happy knack of explaining, he had left unexplained. What was required from the noble Viscount was an explanation whether it was intended to purchase with public money certain land for indefinite purposes. The noble Viscount said this was the usual course, but still he left the House in complete darkness as to the intentions of the Government. The work which had been referred to laid it down that when a grant of public money would be required the invariable practice was that a Resolution in Committee must be the origin of the proceeding. If it was intended to purchase land without any grant of public money, then there was nothing to be said upon the occasion, but it did not appear that we had yet arrived at that happy state of things when public works could be effected without the aid of public money.
 MR. BLAKE  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act for the Regulation of Municipal Corporations in Ireland, 3 & 4  Vict.
 MR. BRADY  complained that the works in reference to the Shannon had not been completed effectually, although so long a time had elapsed; and asserted that if London improvements were to be carried out by the Government at once, he thought that equal justice would not be dealt out.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the object of the Bill was to enable the Government to take ground for certain purposes. It did not give them power to purchase the property; the funds for that purpose should be voted afterwards in Committee of the Whole House. There was, therefore, no question of Order.
 MR. HENNESSY  thought that the Irish Members had an interest in this matter. Money had been refused for improvements in Ireland, which they had been told ought to be effected by private enterprise, but now the Government were about to speculate in the building of houses.
 MR. HENNESSY  remarked that there was a precedent in the Fortifications Bill
 1307
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he would now move the Previous Question.
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he had given notice that he should move the Previous Question. The forms of the House did not permit him to do so while the Amendment of his hon. Friend (Mr. Neate) was before the House; but, as he hoped that Amendment would be withdrawn, he should then adhere to that course. He wished to discuss for a few moments the question how this Malt Tax affected the interests of all classes in Her Majesty's dominions, both producers and consumers. He believed there was no financial question about which there were so many misunderstandings, and he might almost say misrepresentations; and he would endeavour to prove to the House that, so far as the interest of the consumer was concerned, the tax was a boon rather than an evil; and that as far as the interests of the growers of barley were concerned, they were by no means injuriously affected, and that in fact the growers of the best samples of barley received a considerable bonus in consequence of the operation of the Malt Tax. The hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk,(Sir FitzRoy Kelly), laboured under one of these misunderstandings. In his argument he went on swimmingly up to a certain point, and then befell into difficulties; he said that £60,000,000 was spent in the course of the year upon beer, and that of this sum £20,000,000 was attributable to the influence of the Malt Tax. He did not, however, prove that statement in the slighest degree, but said that if he were allowed he would prove it at the Bar of the House, well knowing, of course, that he would not be called upon to do so. When, therefore, misrepresentations were made in that House it was not surprising that they were more rife out of doors. There was a meeting, of which the hon. and learned Member was Chairman, the other day, which would prove his assertion. It was composed chiefly of farmers, and there
 1273 s. d. d. s. d., d. d. s. s. s. 1274 s. s. 1275 s. s. s. s. lar-gesse,
 MR. DILLWYN  looked with some suspicion on the proposal. He had visions before him of a clearance of all the houses between the Palace of Westminster and the Foreign Office, and of the erection of a grand and ornamental building on the site where those houses now stand; and he apprehended that all this would be accomplished at a heavy cost to the country.
 MR. MILNBR GIBSON : The right hon. Gentleman will find that I said it was 12½ per cent upon the retail price. If I had taken the wholesale price I should have said 15½ or 16 per cent. I gave the prices, and said such beer as was sold at  4d.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : One would suppose from the way in which the Report with regard to the experiments to test the value of malt in feeding cattle has been mentioned in the course of the debate that the experiments were undertaken voluntarily by the Board of Trade, and that the Report was volunteered by that Department. Sir, there was a Committee of this House appointed to consider the question, and they separated with the distinct understanding that during the recess experiments upon a large scale were to be undertaken by the Board of Trade, with a view to acquire some accurate information upon the subject. Well, the Board of Trade acted in accordance with the wishes of the Committee. They employed one of the most eminent agricultural chymistsin the country, a man well versed in the science of farming, and who could not be supposed to have any other object whatever than to ascertain, as far as experiments could enable him, the exact truth. But I think these experiments are in their nature so complicated that we should not usefully employ our time in discussing in detail the precise methods which were employed in testing the qualities of malt as food for oxen, sheep, cows, and pigs. We must take it that we have an authority who is entitled to weight—I do not say he is infallible—and who tells us that the value of malt in feeding cattle is not what it has been supposed to be, and that a given weight of barley is more profitable as food for cattle than if given as malt. I think that this Report of Mr. Lawes is very much strengthened by the fact that pre-
 1284 1285 "Among luxuries of general consumption, taxation should by preference attach itself to stimulants, because these, although in themselves as legitimate and beneficial indulgences as any others, are more likely than most others to be used in excess, so that the check to consumption naturally arising from taxation is on the whole better applied to them than to other things." 1286 s. 5s. 5d. d. d. 5s. 5d. s. 1287 4d. 3d. s. 4d. 2d. 1288 s. d. 1289 s. s. s. d., s. d. d. s. d. d. s. d. d. d. d. 1290 "The different taxes which have been imposed upon malt, beer, and ale, have never lowered the price of barley, have never reduced the rent and profit of barley land. The price of malt to the brewer has constantly risen in proportion to the taxes imposed upon it; and those taxes, together with the duties upon beer and ale, have constantly either raised the price, or, what comes to the same thing, reduced the quality of those commodities to the consumer. The final payment of those taxes has fallen constantly upon the consumer, and not upon the producer."—[ Bk. 1291 1292
 MR. MORRITT  thought that he could hardly be expected to give a silent vote on the present occasion, inasmuch as the Motion was almost identical with that which he last year submitted to the House; and he could not hesitate, now that the question had fallen into abler hands, to give it his cordial support. Although he achieved no great success with his own Motion, yet, upon the present occasion he entertained strong hopes, grounded upon two circmstances—first, his firm belief in the justice of the cause; secondly, faith in the tribunal before whom it was brought. He believed that a great majority of their constituents sent them to the House in the firm conviction that they were sending men who were intrinsically honest—men above being swayed either by party interests or party feeling—men who were really anxious to serve their country to the best of their ability, and to carry out the great principles of justice. He had heard it said that in bringing forward subjects of this nature independent Members ought not to consider what effect their propositions would have on the finances of the country, for that was not their business, but the business of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. So far from agreeing with that, he thought, on the contrary, it was the bounden duty of every Member bringing forward a Motion to consider how it would affect the finances, and to place himself, as it were, in the position of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. When he brought forward his Motion last year, he did endeavour to consider the matter in that light: and in so considering it, he found that ever since he had been a Member of that House there had
 1270 1271 bonâ fide 1272
 MR. VANSITTART  asked what amount would be charged on the revenues of India for the proposal for improving the site of the new India House. He should like to know what addition to the £50,000 already voted would be made.
 MR. DU CANE  said, he did not rise for the purpose of following the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down into his somewhat elaborate network of figures on the subject of the burdens on land, as the hon. and learned Gentleman had furnished a most excellent reason for his not doing so, inasmuch as he had frankly told the House that it took him a very long time to arrive at an accurate comprehension of his own argument, and the House might very fairly excuse him (Mr. Du Cane) from not comprehending them on the spur of the moment. But as he and his constituents took a great interest in this subject he trusted he might be permitted to address a few observations on the main point at issue. He congratulated his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) not merely
 1258 prima facie 1259 d. d. 1260 1261 1262 s. d. s.; s 8d. s., d. 1263 "I have invested in a quantity of the new malt condiment, but I have no demand for it. The fact is, under the present absurd Excise restrictions, it cannot be sold at a price at which the farmer can afford to buy it, and while they continue in force it must continue also to remain a drug in the market." "The making of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's malt mixture is encumbered with so many vexatious restrictions that very few persons indeed will subject themselves to the strict surveillance of the Excise, and thus the making of it will in a degree become a monopoly, and make the price too high compared with other food, being now £12 a ton, while barley is scarcely £1, and oilcake from £9 to £11. I think you are scarcely aware of the strict regulation of the Excise in carrying this law into execution, nor of the expenses entailed by it to the country. A person intending to make this compound, even upon a small scale, must in the first place provide a house upon the premises for the exciseman, whose business it is to be constantly on the premises, and if he is called away the persons are locked in until his return, particularly so when grinding of malt and linseed and the consequent mixing is going on; so that if an accident from breakage of machinery or any other cause should take place their escape is impossible. This appears to me to be almost curtailing the liberty of the subject, and is quite contrary to the freedom of Englishmen." 1264 "Having sent a quantity of barley and linseed of his own to be ground at a neighbouring manufacturer's, and the mixture having been made, a sample had to be transmitted to Somerset House, where the authorities were between ten days and a fortnight sitting on it, much to his inconvenience and loss of time in fattening his stock." "Having previously purchased a ton for £12,1 can recommend it from experience as the most valuable condiment that could be used, were we allowed its use without the admixture of linseed, which occasions an extra expense of 14 s. The Times, 1265 1266
 MR. WATKIN  complained of the course taken by the Government in bringing on this Bill without having laid any plan before the House or having asked the House to sanction the expenditure.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the rule referred to was quite correct. This Bill would not enable the Government to purchase a yard of land until the House in Committee had considered the plans and estimates, and had agreed to them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the statement of the Government was not that no expenditure of money was contemplated, but that the Bill did not authorize the expenditure of any public money.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  regretted the increase of cost to the country which was likely to be entailed upon them, and he should like to have a distinct pledge from the Commissioner of Works that this particular scheme would not be a charge upon the public purse, though he should very much doubt the propriety of spending public money in a building scheme.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought that the proposal of one scheme with regard to all the proposed buildings would be best, instead of proceeding piecemeal.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that Government would offer no opposition to the introduction of the Bill provided it was not proceeded with until after the Bill of the hon. Member for Limerick had been introduced.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the last speaker had risen to defend the brewers monopoly. He denied that a remission of the tax would benefit the labouring man; he denied that it would benefit the farmer
 1276 s. v. 1277 s. s., s., s. 1278 Inland Revenue Almanac "The period of credit for payment of the duty on malt has, this year, been again further reduced from twelve to six weeks. There has been a gradual decrease in the number of persons licensed, and in the number of malt-houses, within the last ten years; and the diminished credit will probably have the effect of accelerating the movement towards the concentration of the trade in the hands of the larger capitalists. Lest this should be attributed entirely to the recent alteration in the law, it may be well to call attention to the following account, from which (as inserted in the Report) it appears that in ten years there has been a decrease of 1,667 licensed maltsters, and of 1,322 malt-houses, although the quantity of malt made has very largely increased." 8d. i.e., 3s. 4d. couleur de rose; 1279 The Times 1280 
 
 1853. 1863. 
 Beast 252,624 288,177 
 Sheep and lambs 1,325,474 1,389,142 
 Calves 20,395 23,291 
 Pigs 34,677 53,985 
 
 1853. 1863. 
 Beasts 52,344 72,907 
 Sheep and lambs 220,429 285,296 
 Calves 22,619 26,630 
 Pigs 8,508 17,562 1281 "It appears to me that the quantity of both barley and malt used is excessively small. The quantity consumed by each animal is not more than four bushels in ten weeks, and bears such a small proportion to the other food that it can hardly be considered a test as to what either malt or barley would accomplish if used in larger quantities. If I were feeding a lot of beasts I should use three times as much, leaving out the cake and bean meal; I mean supposing I was doing so entirely for the purpose of testing the relative value of malt and barley for feeding purposes. The same remark would apply to the twenty oxen. The experiments with sheep seem to be a fairer test, as only barley or malt have been used in addition to clover, chaff, and roots. It appears by the Report that the gain of each sheep in live weight has been about 8lb. in a month. Some years since I fed several sheep with malt, in addition to oilcake, roots, amp;c., and I never obtained so much weight in a given time as I did on that occasion; some of the sheep gained upwards of 20lb. live weight in a month. It may also be worth consideration that the feeding qualities of the inferior barley has been very good during the last two years. A great deal that has not been saleable for malting would weigh 52lb. or 53lb. per bushel, which is 5lb. or 6lb. over an average for that description. I should never have thought of feeding pigs with malt. I should quite expect that they would thrive better on barley meal." s. d. s., d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. s. s. d. 1282 "It would be a great relief to the very poorest part of the community if the Malt Tax could be abolished. I say the very poorest part of the community, because I think the consumption of beer, probably more than of any other article, belongs to the very poorest of our labourers. I now speak of the male labourer more than of any other. I am of this opinion, because, as all of us who are acquainted with rural life must know that, if they could, the agricultural labourers of this country would all enjoy the beverage of beer; while, with their limited wages and with the general habit of agricultural labourers to be married men, I think there is very small danger of these men ever carrying the indulgence too far. But depend upon it, it would contribute very much to the contentment of that class, and to make them less dissatisfied when comparing their lot with that of the rest of the community, if, instead of being compelled to resort to the brook or the spring, they could enjoy some share of the produce of the land on which they are employed, in the shape of a glass of beer."—[3  Barnard, s. d. s., id. d. d. 3d. id. coculus indicus, 4d. 1283
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that they now heard for the first time that the Bill did not involve an expenditure of money, but merely gave the Government the power of acquiring land.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  thought the course that had been followed on this occasion was the usual course. The Bill
 1306
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that when the Bill was brought on, if it could be shown that it was informal, and that it ought to have originated in Committee, it could then be withdrawn and the proper course pursued.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the natural course would be to allow the Bill to be brought in. At present they were discussing a Bill they had not seen. The hon. Member (Mr. Hennessy) forgot his national proverb—namely, "You should not name a child until it is born."
 MR. LEVESON GOWER  instanced the case of certain institutions in the town of Reigate, with which he was connected, being greatly inconvenienced by the pollution of the river on which they were dependent for their supplies of water. He, therefore, thought it was of the utmost importance that immediate steps should be taken in the way of legislation upon this matter. Prom day to day this evil was increasing, injuring health and seriously interfering with the rights of property; and if the noble Lord opposite should determine upon going to a division he (Mr. Leveson Gower) would vote with him, although he did not agree in all the details of his measure.
 MR. HENLEY  tendered his thanks to the noble Lord for bringing the question forward, and for the time, pains, care, and ability which he had bestowed upon the subject; and he did this with the more pleasure because he believed that he had been instrumental in inducing the noble Lord to go deeply into the matter by getting the House to pass an Instruction to the noble Lord's Committee directing it to inquire into the pollution of streams. He thought they were indebted to the noble Lord for the courage he had displayed in laying a Bill upon the table of that House so as to get a good discussion upon it, by which not only the pulse of the House but the pulse of the country might be felt. They had to ask themselves, in the first place—Is it necessary to do anything? The discussion showed that the universal opinion was that there was a necessity to act. The next and most important question was—Is this to be done by compulsory legislation or by enabling legislation? That the Government would have to decide. He did not join in throwing blame upon the Government. He considered the subject a vast and difficult one, and he did not think with the hon. Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer) that inquiry was exhausted upon it. Another very important matter before the House would throw great light on this question—the fact that the sewage of the metropolis was, he might almost say, being fought for; and in the discussion thus provoked they might expect much fresh information. It was plain that the noble Lord, who had paid more attention to the question than any one, did not think it exhausted, because he had given notice to move the renewal of inquiry this year. The sewage of the metropolis was now being, in a manner, fought for. Its
 1357
 MR. LIDDELL  was afraid that if the Bill were absolutely rejected the erroneous impression would be created that the House was appalled by the extent of the difficulties and the magnitude of the cost incident to the carrying out of the object of the measure, and was unable to grapple with the question. He (Mr. Liddell) quite appreciated the magnitude of the difficulties by which the subject was surrounded, and admitted that the measure contained a gigantic scheme of local taxation to the extent of which sufficient importance had not been attached. He was quite alive to the objections taken to the construction of districts, and to the difficulty of managing large districts by elected Boards, for that had been clearly shown under the Highway Act. Formidable as those difficulties no doubt were, he believed they might be overcome with perseverance; and he would, therefore, urge his noble Friend not now to press his Motion to a division, but to continue his praiseworthy efforts in the direction he had taken, and follow them up by further inquiries. True, they had a vast amount of evidence before them as to the pollution of rivers, but it was chiefly confined to the subject of sewage and its utilization, and he doubted whether they could settle the great question of the purification of rivers with the evidence they possessed. Great advantage would arise from the appointment of a Committee on that subject. Some of our rivers were polluted at their very sources by deleterious elements; and
 1351 1352
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in reply, must express the great satisfaction he felt with the course of the debate. He could not refuse to follow the advice which had been given him by hon. Gentlemen on both Bides of the House, but he desired to make a very few observations with reference to two or three objections which had been urged against the Bill. The right hon.
 1358 1359
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  was sorry he had misunderstood the right hon. Baronet. He quite concurred in the propriety of referring this Bill to a Select Committee.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  inquired whether the right hon. Gentleman had formed that opinion from the evidence of Mr. Taylor?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that the Nuisance Removal Act was directed against infection of the air, the present Bill concerned itself with the contamination of waters. The former Act dealt with stagnant pollutions; this Bill had to do with nuisances which flowed down from one place to the injury of other places. No one in the present day would deny the enormity and urgency of the evil with which the measure sought to grapple. Ten years ago the Committee on the Nuisance Removal Bill had inquired into the subject, and had ascertained that our rivers had become absolutely pestilential, and were, in fact, nothing but main sewers, and had urged the Government to take steps for the removal of such disastrous influences. The Sewage Commission, which reported in 1861, mentioned by name upwards of 100 rivers which they affirmed to be in an absolutely poisonous condition. The Fishery Commission gave a catalogue of as many more rivers which were as bad. The Committee appointed last year hot only confirmed this statement, but supported it by details of a still more revolting and nauseous character. It was now beyond a doubt that we made the water diffuse an evil which the earth alone would remove. Upon last year's Committee Members both of the late and present Government had sat—Gentlemen who for years had given their most earnest attention
 1310 primâ facie prima facie prima facie "That the increasing pollutions of the rivers and streams of the country is an evil of national importance, which urgently demands the application of remedial measures; that the discharge of sewage and of the noxious refuse of factories into them is a source of nuisance and danger to health; that it acts injuriously not only on the locality where it occurs, but also on the population of the districts through which the polluted rivers flow; that it poisons the water, which in many cases forms the sole supply of the population for all purposes, including drinking; that it destroys the fish, and generally that it impairs the value and
 1311 "One can hardly imagine the rivers and streams ever becoming worse than they are now." "At the mills, half a mile below the outfall, I have seen very large quantities of solid matter, pure foeces, taken up from the grating; and the stench at the mill is so bad that the miller can hardly remain in the house." "The town sewer discharges itself close to the Exe-bridge, and the whole bed of the river is one mass of pollution." "The whole stream for a mile and a half from the outfall is one mass of sewage, as you can see by walking on the banks and observing the different substances clinging to the sides. It does not contain any fish, and the farmer occupying the lands on the northern side of the river has been obliged to dig artificial places for his cattle because they cannot touch the water in the river now." 1312 "Before the Tame reaches Birmingham, above Birmingham, does it not receive the sewage of 270,000 people?—Yes, and all the refuse of gasworks, pumpings of coal mines, and the drainings of that great district of South Staffordshire. Birmingham always suffers more or less from a type of fever. Its mortality is much higher than that of the metropolis." A laugh. "In your report you state that the Medlock, at Manchester, is covered with a black scum so thick that birds are able to walk over it—Is that the case?" "That is so. I know, as engineer to the Bridgewater Canal, that the abominations in the Medlock and its tributary rivers are so great that words would scarcely convey what it is.…You see the gas rise up in a bubble, and a mass of scum with it, which cakes on the surface. You might skim the Bridgewater Canal at Manchester and cleanse it completely every four-and-twenty hours; and this process of putrefaction with the subsoil takes place, and raises this scum, which again cakes and covers the surface." "The Clyde is worse than the Thames or than the rivers of Lancashire." 1313 "When water contaminated with sewage has been completely filtered through paper, sand, or even through animal charcoal, and by that means rendered perfectly colourless, clear, transparent, and inodorous, or after it has been treated with lime, it speedily begins (especially in hot weather) to ferment and putrefy, and becomes decidedly mischievous." 1314 "Do you consider that water which has once become polluted by sewage cannot be perfectly cleansed for drinking purposes, either by means of filtration, or precipitation, or deodorization, or any other chemical process?" "Certainly; it cannot be practically purified by any chemical process." "That impure liquid matter from the manufactures and population of Old Lenton, near Nottingham, flows into the river Trent about a mile and a half above the point at which a large part of the water supply of Nottingham is now drawn from that river. That the river Leen, which passes through the town, and which was about forty years ago a pure stream, and afforded the principal supply of water to the town for all purposes, is now foul and offensive by reason of its conveying part of the sewage of Nottingham and the whole of the sewage of an extensive and populous higher district, over which the authorities of Nottingham have no control, and flows with the rest of the sewage of Nottingham into the parish of Sneinton and thence into the river Trent." 1315 "Do you consider that allowing the sewage to
 1316 "Do you see any reason why the Thames should not be as well supplied with salmon as Scotch rivers?—It only wants one thing—to purify the Thames from Richmond down to the sea. If that were done there is no question but that salmon would at once come into it." "Some years ago the Calder was a brilliant fishing river. I could take my rod, or send my keeper, if a friend came unexpectedly to dine, and have a salmon for him to a certainty. But there is no such thing as a fish in the Calder now, and so strong is the infusion of dye-stuff contained in it, that slipping off its bank last summer I unfortunately underwent immersion in the water, and my Russia duck trowsers were dyed a determined deep blue, which defied the powers of bleaching to obliterate." "The revenue from those salmon in the Thames would be very large, would it not?—Yes; very large comparatively with other rivers." "The revenue from small rivers in Scotland is some thousands per annum, is it not?—Yes; and it would be very much greater on the Thames." "Is it not useless to attempt to breed salmon in the Thames so long as the sewage of London is allowed to run into it?—Perfectly useless." 1317 "The waters of the Calder and its tributaries were poisonous to cattle on their banks. That fact could be attested by Colonel Towneley, Mr. Peel, and Mr. Taylor, owners of the best shorthorns in the world, and winners at Chelmsford, Battersea, and Leeds, severally." "His attention had been called to the impure state of the river Exe, the emanations arising from which during the past summer had been of the most offensive character." 1318 "That which keeps down the offensiveness of the river during the summer time is either a low temperature or a copious rainfall." "There is not the slightest doubt that excrements from human habitations in the towns, polluted the waters in a very dangerous manner. I think it is perfectly established by sanitary investigators that disease, especially cholera, has been propagated in this manner." 1319 "The injury done by the Deliffi mine, for example, would take two years' purchase' from the value of every acre of land on the hanks of the Dovey." "Not from any necessity consequent upon working the mines, but in order to save the parties the expense of providing heap or rubbish room." 1320 "Do you agree with the Commissioners in stating that it is an evil of great national importance?—I apprehend that it is, because it is a growing evil, and is, I fear, in course of growth to very serious dimensions." "Then do you consider that it is absolutely necessary that sewage should not be allowed to run into streams and rivers?—That is the only way of preserving streams from pollution." Richard 1321 1322 "Some engineers have given it in evidence before the Committee that the carriage of a substance, clay for instance, by suspension in water is cheaper than to carry it in a cart; is that so, in your opinion?—I have no doubt about it." "Then if it were remunerative to remove the matters of the cesspools to the land in former days by means of carts, will it not be still more remunerative, in these days, to remove it by means of suspension in water through mains, and with pumping engines?—There is no doubt about it; you can pump by those engines in the Lambeth Works, (which stand almost opposite this House, I believe) about 80,000 gallons 100 feet high, at a working cost (including coals, tallow, and wages) of one shilling." "If sewage is not to be allowed to run into rivers, and if all those means of precipitation, filtration, and deodorization are ineffective, what other alternative is there for dealing with the sewage?"—"To use it in a liquid form upon land." "That is, in fact, the only other alternative?"—"It is." 1323 1324 "There is something, I believe, almost unprecedented as regards any great country, something quite unprecedented in the condition of a nation whose commercial position might now be defined as ours. Nearly one-half of the essential food of the people of England—I mean grain—is cultivated and raised in other lands; perhaps I might say, independently of food, nearly one-half of the whole materials of the labour of the country are also produced in other lands. What is the condition of a country whose industry is distinguished by features like these? Here is opened to us a vista almost interminable, because we are not
 1325 1326 "A time there was, ere England's griefs began, When every rood of ground maintained its man." "Far away our children leave the land." 1327 d. 2s. 6d. s. s. s. d., s. 1328 "There is no doubt in the world that the supply of manure is miserably insufficient for an improved state of agriculture; that is to say, suppose that ninety-nine farmers were to farm as the hundredth does at this moment, there would be a scramble for manures." 1329 "The scheme of local management which we would recommend is that which has been approved by experience in Ireland, and is founded on recognised constitutional principles. It is that a Board of Conservators to be elected by and to represent the various interests along the whole course of the river or rivers placed under the management of the Board, including both the proprietors of land on the banks, the owners of several fisheries and the fishermen who exercised their vocation in the tidal or navigable waters. All these parties would be called upon to contribute to the expense of protection, and all should accordingly be represented at the Board by such persons as they may elect for the purpose. The scheme would be, in its general features, similar to that laid down for Ireland by the 11 AMP; 12  Vict, 1330 1331
 MR. AYRTON  had read the Report of the Committee which sat two years ago on the subject of town sewage, and trusted it would not be concluded that if it rejected that Bill the House did not intend to do anything in that matter. He hoped the House would do all it could do under present circumstances, and he thought it would be proceeding safely if it adopted the course proposed by the Home Secretary. The Committee came to the conclusion that the
 1355
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he did not think that the House had as yet taken up that subject with a vigour and an earnestness proportioned to its importance. The most conclusive evidence had been adduced to show that the pollution of our rivers had a deteriorating effect on the health of our population, that it was rendering our meadows deleterious to cattle, and that it entailed no inconsiderable loss by the destruction of fish. He was glad to find that the hon. Member for Birmingham, yielding to the love of sport which was common to the Anglo-Saxon race, had given due weight to this point, though he quite agreed with him that it must yield precedence to more important considerations. The Prince Consort once expressed the opinion that, after a few years, it would be deemed incredible that a practical nation like this should have allowed that which was so essential for the restoration of the land, and which was of the utmost fertilizing value to the soil to pass down our rivers into the sea, to be eaten by sea birds, deposited by them upon rocks, and fetched back as manure at a cost of £10 per ton. He thought the noble Lord was quite right in introducing this question to the attention of the House, with a view to legislation on the subject, and he considered that the noble Lord deserved the thanks of the country for the way in which he had grappled with a subject, which excited great and growing interest throughout the country. Some persons had taken it up with a view of obtaining considerable pecuniary advantage, but the noble Lord had not moved in the business from any merely selfish interest, but had dealt with it on public grounds as affecting great interests of the country. He had made the question his own, and it must have cost him no little time and money to produce the Bill before the House. At the same time he (Mr. Adderley) must say that when he came to view the details of the Bill he was inclined to ask the noble Lord to allow this Bill to be withdrawn, resting contented with the way in which he had opened the subject,
 1342 1343
 MR. SELWYN  said, few persons in the House had spent more of their time upon and in the Thames than he had done, and, therefore, he was anxious to say a few words on the subject of that much injured river which the noble Lord described as a natural disgrace. His principal object was to urge upon the Government, who were opposed to this Bill, to introduce some measure which would not be open to the same objections. The evils to which the rivers of the country, and the Thames in particular, for which he desired to speak, were exposed arose from two sources—namely, pollution, in consequence of the abolition of cesspools, and diminution, in conse-
 1338 quasi 1339 be 1340
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  had certainly expected to hear from the right hon. Baronet some explanation of the course he was going to take with regard to Abingdon Gaol.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  did not think it at all sufficient. What he asked was that Abingdon should be restored to this Bill as it stood in the Bill of last year. It had been placed there on the recommendation of the Government officers, and the right hon. Baronet had removed it on clandestine,  ex parte, 1362
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  considered that they were deeply indebted to his noble Friend for having submitted this Bill to the House, and thus bringing under the consideration of the country one of the most important measures which had been before them for very many years. It appeared there were now large quantities of land entirely unproductive, which would be rendered fertile by sewage being used upon them. If this was established, upon this ground alone a case had been made out. But if to this there were superadded the fact that they would purify the rivers of the country, and that a large sum, estimated at many millions, could be realized, the importance of something being done could not be exaggerated. He concurred in recommending the withdrawal of the Bill for the present, and for his noble
 1356
 MR. HUNT  moved for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to the Registration of County Voters. The Bill was one of a very unambitious character, and would be contained in a very few clauses. The object was to remedy a practical grievance. At present any person on the list of voters for a county or division might send a notice of objection to any other person on the list, assigning no reason for his objection, and the practice was to place some man of straw on the register, who signed any number of objections, which were distributed all over the county, without giving the persons objected to the slightest clue to the ground of objection. In South Lancashire, for instance, in 1862–3, out of 23,140 names on the register, 16,468 were objected to, and 5,554 were expunged. In 1863–4, out of 22,390 names on the register, 13,468 were objected to. That statement was quite sufficient to show that some change was requisite. He did not propose to alter the whole machinery of registration. His immediate object was twofold. The Bill required that notices of objection should state specifically the grounds of objection; each should be considered separately, and if any objection taken was pronounced frivolous or vexatious the revising barrister should have power to give costs on that, even if the objector were successful on any other ground. He also proposed that voters should be able to send declarations, made before a magistrate or a Master in Chancery, stating what their qualification was, instead of being compelled to appear in person before the revising barrister. This would save great inconvenience and expense.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, when he saw the Bill upon the paper of the House he came down with the intention of supporting it. That intention was much strengthened by the very able and eloquent speech of the noble Lord; indeed, a more eloquent speech he (Colonel Edwards) had not heard for some time. Nevertheless, from the tone of the House, it was clear that if the noble Lord proceeded with his Bill he would have no chance of passing it in its present state. He would, therefore, entreat of the noble Lord to withdraw his first Bill, and trust to the pledge given by the Government that they would introduce a measure on the subject at no distant period. On coming down to the House this morning he was under the impression that this Bill related solely to the utilization of the sewage, but he found that the noble Lord asked for very much larger powers than the House was disposed to grant. This was a matter that was of great interest to him and his constituents. The staple trade of Beverley principally consisted of tanneries, and there was a great difficulty in obtaining an outfall for the re-
 1344
 MR. BRIGHT  seconded the Amendment which had been moved by his hon. Friend. He had sat on the Committee, by whose Report it was said the Bill was suggested, of the noble Lord last year. He thought the question very difficult when he went into that Committee, but he thought it still more difficult when he came out. He did not think that the evidence laid before that Committee or that its Report, impartially considered, gave any countenance to the measure which the noble Lord had brought in. In regard to the particular clauses to which his hon. Friend had referred—the 46th and 64th—clauses of a more sweeping or unjust nature were never perhaps introduced into a Bill before Parliament. The noble Lord had referred to a mine in Wales with which he (Mr. Bright) had some connection and about which he knew a good deal. He could assure the noble Lord that the extract which he read from the Fishery Commissioners was almost altogether an untrue and very unfair statement of everything that had taken place with regard to that mine. They found that half a dozen Gentlemen, who were fond of salmon fishing, did not appear to consider it of the slightest importance that 300 or 400 men and their families obtained a good living by their honest industry in a mine in the Welsh mountains; and unless the mine-owners were willing to do all kinds of impracticable things, which he believed would have no result, they were charged by the Fishery Commissioners with caring nothing for the purity of the river Dovey. He knew that the directors were most anxious to do everything that could be done, but there were mines in such a position that scarcely anything could be done without shutting up the mines altogether. The owners would only he too glad to expend the £500 to which the noble Lord referred to put an end to a grievance which he believed was grossly exaggerated, but they had abstained from doing so because they were never able to determine that the expenditure of the money would be of the slightest advantage. He might say, without any exaggeration, that during the last three years the fishing on the river had been better than it had been for twenty years before, although the mine had been yielding double and treble the quantity of ore that it used to do. The increased productiveness of the mine had not damaged the fish in the river. The noble Lord he was sure was not well acquainted
 1337
 MR. DODSON  said, the two principal provisions of the Bill were recommended in the Report of the Select Committee last year. The Bill which he introduced last year went considerably further than the present one, and would have almost entirely recast the system of registration, and he regretted that this Bill did not embody more of the provisions of his own.
 MR. LOCKE  expressed his thanks to the noble Lord for bringing in the Bill. It was obvious that but for this Bill the House would have heard nothing of a Government Bill. During the last Session the Government did make a small attempt in the right direction, and that was with regard to the River Thames. He was on the Committee on the Thames Conservancy Bill; and into that Bill was introduced a clause by which it was proposed to enact that for the future no increased quantity of sewage should be emptied into the Thames. On that occasion the hon. Member for East Surrey proposed an Amendment, excepting Kingston-upon-Thames from the operation of that clause. He (Mr. Locke) entered the House just as the Amendment was about to be carried, because hon. Members did not seem to be aware of the obnoxious nature of the exception. He opposed it; and the House, taking his view of the question, rejected
 1347 in corpore vili, 1348 nolens volens
 MR. NORRIS  would not follow the example of the hon. Member for Devizes in going into details on a merely local question. He might, however, state that among the magistrates there had been at various times ten different divisions on the subject. Of these, two had occurred in 1859, when thirty-one voted against twenty-eight, the majority being in favour of the removal of the gaol. In four divisions the majority was the same way. In six divisions the majority was in favour of the continuance of the gaol. In the last division thirty-one magistrates voted one way, and thirty the other. He was quite satisfied the feeling was in favour of the continuance of the gaol.
 MR. WALTER  thought the House must already have perceived, from the discussion which had taken place, that this question could only be properly considered before the Select Committee. It involved matter of considerable detail; a good deal of documentary evidence must be gone into; and he did not think he should be doing his duty towards the object he advocated—namely, the abolition of Abingdon Gaol—if he attempted to go
 1363
 MR. KENDALL  opposed the second reading on the ground that the Bill, if passed, would prove the destruction of half the coal and copper mines in England and Wales. He knew three streams in Cornwall in which there had been trout, though at present there were none, but not £5 worth of trout had been ever taken in them; whereas in one year more than £100,000 was divided as the profits of the three mines which polluted those streams. When, therefore, the noble Lord talked of the loss of fish as the loss of capital, what did he imagine would be the loss to England from the closing of her mines? This Bill would stop every mine and clay work in Cornwall. He was glad that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State intended to oppose the Bill, which would be one that would be most destructive in its effects.
 MR. COLLINS  thought that persons should be put on the registry, not by the act of an election agent, but by the act of some public department. He approved of the alterations proposed, and hoped to see greater improvements made.
 MR. BARROW  was deeply sensible of the necessity of improving the discipline of our gaols, and be hoped all the clauses of this Bill would be most carefully considered.
 MR. FERRAND  said, as his name was on the back of the Bill he wished to make a few remarks. Like the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert) he had served diligently on the Committee of last year, and he was certain that no Member of it could hear the evidence before it without being convinced that it was the duty of the Government to take some steps immediately to put a stop to the fearful state of things
 1345 1346
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  acknowledged that the noble Lord who brought in the Bill had shown by his eloquent speech that he had completely mastered the subject, and had exhibited to view a great evil, of which they were all perhaps aware previously, but not so well aware. The noble Lord came forward with a Bill, the main provision of which had for its purpose to divide England into several new districts and boards, and that provision was not approved by any one except the noble Lord himself. It was disapproved even by the hon. Member for Oldham (Mr. Hibbert), and the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand), who approved the object of the
 1349 1350
 COLONEL SYKES  said, it was evident that something must be done to remedy a fearful evil that was accumulating in its magnitude every day. Were they to consider the health of the whole population or the manufacturing and industrial interests of certain classes? It was only the other day there was a Bill before the House by which the people of Cheltenham asked for power to divert the source of the Thames down to them, because they could no longer obtain wholesome water from their own river. As regarded the present measure, he had seen a paper which had been sent from the mining districts, in which it was stated that if this Bill passed it would have the effect of destroying the mining interests of the country. It would not do to allow this, as we were greatly indebted to our mining interests. Some of the clauses of the Bill, however, were extremely valuable, and ought to be taken either by the Government or some private individual. He recommended the noble Lord to accept the proposition of the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary; but if he should determine upon dividing; he (Colonel Sykes) would divide with him.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  admitted the existence of the evil against which the Bill was directed, but thought that in describing it the noble Lord had somewhat over-coloured the picture. While believing that the evil was capable of remedy, he was yet convinced that a remedy was not even approached by that measure. It was wrong in principle, because it superseded and ignored almost every right of property for the purpose of purifying rivers; and with the enormous powers proposed to be given to the new Boards, those bodies would better deserve the name of oppressing than that of "protecting Boards." By the 35th clause they would be enabled to divert the course of streams and arbitrarily to alter the aspect of the property on their banks; while under the 38th clause—without the consent of landowners—they might enter lands and deposit refuse of any kind to lie on the banks, so as to create nuisances when their proper function should be to remove them. Thus the banks of rivers might be rendered even less inhabitable than the worst parts were now. Instead of having Boards wandering all over the country armed with powers infinitely more stringent than those given to railway companies, and invading the land of every one who had the misfortune to have a stream flowing through it, the true remedy would be to enforce and perhaps in some instances to improve and enlarge the existing legal rights, the exercise of which might tend to the greater purification of rivers.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, that power ought to be given to local Boards to carry the sewage beyond their respective boundaries. The discharge of sewage in large masses must be injurious, and care should be taken to guard against any mischief that might ensue therefrom. He also pointed out some other defects in the Bill relative to the difficulty attending local Boards carrying out its provisions, defalcation of contractors, &c.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that if the present attempt at legislation was not successful its failure would be due, not to any lack of industry or ability on the part of the noble Lord—who was entitled to the thanks of the country for having proposed something—but to the inherent
 1353 1354 Experimentum fiat in corpore vili,"
 SIR GEORGE GREY  understood there would be no opposition to the second reading of this Bill. It was very desirable that the Select Committee, to whom it would be referred, should meet at the earliest period and go through the details. Any further discussion on the Bill might be taken after the Committee had reported. He would undertake to give immediate notice of the names of the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he entirely concurred in the principle of this Bill, which, as he understood it, gave additional powers to local bodies. The details of the Bill would require great consideration, and he thought them susceptible of great amendment. The proper course would be to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. He might be allowed to say, with reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord, that he had passed no censure on him whatever. He had only expressed his regret that so much time had been consumed in proving an evil as to the existence of which they were agreed, the only difference of opinion being in regard to the remedy to be applied. He had not intended at all to blame the noble Lord; on the contrary, he thought he deserved commendation for the great attention he had paid to the subject, and he should be very happy if his efforts led to a practical measure. The noble Lord complained of the inactivity of the Government, but he might remind the noble Lord they had not been altogether inactive. The Lord Advocate last Session proposed a very stringent Bill with regard to Scotland, and at first he was sanguine of being able to carry it; but he soon found that would be impossible, because the question was dealt with in a large and comprehensive manner affecting numerous and important interests. They must proceed step by step with great caution, and in that way they might hope to accomplish some good.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would only say one word in answer to the hon. Gentleman. He was very sorry to have incurred his displeasure. He could not help it, and must submit to it. The hon. Gentleman was totally misinformed as to his having acted on any private representations. He had a statement from the hon. Member for Abingdon, and a statement from Mr. Merry, one of the strongest advocates for the abolition of Abingdon Gaol. He had also a personal interview with him on the subject. [Mr. DABBY GRIFFITH: When was that?] He thought in January last. The hon. Gentleman was equally mistaken in stating that any private remonstrance from his hon. Friend the Member for Abingdon had caused the omission of Abingdon Gaol last year. The Bill was withdrawn, and he gave him no intimation of any change, publicly or privately.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was sorry he had not communicated to the hon. Gentleman, as he had to one or two others, the course which he intended to adopt. The question with regard to Abingdon Gaol could only be raised in Committee and not on the second reading, and there would be an opportunity to discuss it when the Bill came back from the Select Committee, when any alteration might be made in the Schedule. The hon. Gentleman or any other Member might, when the Bill came back, move that Abingdon be added to the Schedule, and he would take care that every information should be given to the House and the Committee on the subject. He hoped that explanation would be considered sufficient by the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was from personal communication with Mr. Taylor, who had given him his opinion of the Bill. He (Sir George Grey) was unwilling to say anything that should be disparaging to the noble Lord's exertions with reference to this subject. He had undoubtedly given much attention to it, and was entitled to great credit; but there were grave objections to the Bill. He had already referred to the enorrnous power to the Inspectors to be appointed by the Secretary of State and to the Protection Boards. The districts were to consist of the watershed area of the rivers; but the noble Lord had not told the House what the extent of those areas might be except in the case of the Severn, and it could easily be inferred from that how very large the extent of the Thames watershed would be. If hon. Members would only look at the sixteen different heads under which the Inspectors were to report they would have some idea of the magnitude of the task imposed upon them, and the difficulties with which they would have to contend. The Inspectors were to report as to the boundaries of the districts, in reference to representation and taxation; they were to name the first members of the Protection Boards; they were to report what works they thought necessary all over those immense areas; they were to examine into the rights and interests of corporations, navigation, and other companies, owners of fisheries, harbours, docks, &c; they were to report as to the mode of raising money, and their report was to be embodied in a provisional order to be confirmed by Parliament. This provisional order which would embrace a great variety of subjects of the most complicated character, was to be laid before Parliament for confirmation. And what would be the effect of that? Why, that almost every corporate body and every individual in the country who had water rights, might be brought before a Committee of that House, constituted as a Private Bill Committee. He would ask the House to consider the consequences, the expense, and the difficulties attendant upon the process proposed by the noble Lord. He would say
 1334 "To inquire into plans for utilizing sewage, and their relations to the water economy of the country, and to consider the best means for remedying and preventing the pollution of streams." 1335
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the noble Lord in the speech which they had heard had mixed up various subjects, and had departed from the immediate object of the Bill, which was the protection of the waters of rivers from pollution. The noble Lord had said a great deal about the utilization of sewage, which was the subject of another Bill which he had prepared, and had spent a great deal of time very unnecessarily in showing that great evils arose not only from sewage, but also from the refuse of mines, manufactures, and other matters being poured into rivers and streams, but he had failed in showing that he had presented to the House a measure which could have any practical effect in accomplishing the object which he had in view. They were not there to pass a Resolution as to the purification of rivers, but to consider whether the scheme submitted to them, in order to carry out that object, was one which might rightly be adopted. Upon that point he had come to a decided opinion that it would be unwise to adopt the principle of the Bill by agreeing to its second reading. He did not mean to 3ay that it was not desirable to vest larger powers in the local authorities to deal with sewage, but that was a point which came under the second Bill of the noble Lord. But what did the noble Lord propose to do? The noble Lord had, in his opinion, exaggerated the evils which existed, and had drawn a melancholy picture of this country being reduced almost to a wilderness from the rapid decrease in the fertility of the soil. He (Sir George Grey), however, had been under a very different impression; he believed that the fertility of the soil of England, so far from decreasing, was increasing, and therefore he thought the picture drawn by the noble Lord did not very faithfully represent the real state of things. There was no doubt, however, that an evil did exist, and the question was, how was it to be dealt with? Now, the difficulty about dealing with the sewage had not arisen from any action of the Go-
 1332 "That rivers can be effectually freed from pollution only by extending the Local Government Act to entire watersheds, or rather by establishing Boards somewhat similar to the present Local Boards of towns, which should extend over the whole area of each catchment basin, instead of being restricted to the precepts of each town." "We recommend that the important object of completely freeing the entire basins of rivers from pollution should be rendered possible by general legislative enactment, enabling the inhabitants of such entire districts to adopt some controlling power for that purpose; but it should include a provision for compelling Local Boards to render the sewage of their districts innocuous by application to the land for agricultural purposes. This was a far more vague and general recommendation." 1333
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that though his name was on the back of the Bill he fully admitted that its provisions were rather too sweeping. At the same time, as a Member of the Committee of last year, he could not shut his eyes to the fact that it was high time that something should be done to put a stop to river pollution; and he hoped that manufacturers and persons connected with mines would be willing to view this question calmly and dispassionately. He himself was connected with the manufacturing districts, and he thought that as manufacturers and miners they ought to view the question not only as it affected themselves, but as it affected the health of the great populations who lived on the banks of these rivers. He could bear witness to the great objections that were raised in consequence of the state of the river at Manchester. Though he had not seen the Medlock at, Manchester, in the state described by Mr. Rawlinson, he knew that the nuisance was very great at Manchester, and as the Bridgwater Canal took its water from the Medlock, the nuisance was carried some miles further into the country. So greatly was this felt, that he had even received communication from parties in Cheshire, some miles from Manchester, pressing him to try and place canals under the same restrictions as this Bill sought to impose upon rivers. It had been said that if this Bill passed the mines in many parts of the country, particularly Wales, would be closed at once, but Mr. Ffennell, in his evidence before the Committee, said it was perfectly feasible to prevent a considerable proportion of the impurities which flowed from mines into rivers, without interfering with the proper working of mines, and he gave instances in which, at his suggestion, mine-owners had made filtering beds and had carried out plans with this view, recouping themselves by the value of the refuse thus saved, while the streams remained pure and the fish were no longer poisoned. This evidence showed that much could be done by mine-owners and manufacturers to mitigate the existing evils. It was not to be expected that rivers in the manufacturing districts could be as pure and as placid as some streams now were in purely rural districts. Where industrial processes were largely carried on our rivers must suffer, but there must be some limit to this, and some remedial measure
 1341
 MR. HIBBERT  was glad that this Bill was being introduced. He had himself been objected to three times in five years, and he knew many persons with a perfect qualification whose names had been struck off, because they were unable to attend the registration court.
 MR. JACKSON  said, that he objected to the Bill being withdrawn. If it passed, the President of the Board of Trade would have but sorry returns of imports and exports to make for the future. A more mischievous measure had never been introduced. A similar measure had been proposed by Lord R. Grosvenor, but the opinion of the House was so strong against it that it was withdrawn. He greatly regretted that the Bill was allowed to be withdrawn without coming to a division upon it. On behalf of the great money interest he would say if Clauses 46 and 64 of this Bill came into operation some hundreds of thousands of men now employed in factories and mines, with their families, would be thrown out of employment, and all the capital connected with their working would be lost. As he thought it desirable that the opinion of the House should be taken upon the measure, he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, it was impossible for any person who had either listened to or read the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty the other evening, not to have felt the greatest satisfaction at his statement. It was lucid and explanatory; but he confessed the observations of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) had somewhat dispelled the bright illusion. From that time to the present evening he (Sir Frederic Smith) had been in a state of great uneasiness, fearing that as regards the navy we were not in that state of safety and security that was desirable; but his noble Friend had now removed to a great extent his fears, and he hoped that all which the noble Lord had said as regarded
 1417 Warrior Black Prince Bellerophon. Warrior 1418 Waterwitch; Teetotum. 1419 1420 6d.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  desired to express his satisfaction that the Government had come to the determination not to adopt the recommendation of the Committee for the suppression of Pembroke and one or two other dockyards. With every possible respect for private enterprise, he thought some things rather beyond its sphere. He did not wish to see the Royal Navy depend mainly on private building yards. He believed the public and private building yards had a beneficial effect on each other, and would be extremely sorry to see building at the public yards discontinued. It was very difficult to make an exact comparison of the work done in the two classes of yards. In the one case they knew everything that went wrong; in the other they only heard of what went right. Very large profits were made out of private yards. He had the honour and the misfortune to be a shareholder of the  Great Eastern,
 MR. PEEL  moved,
 "That a sum not exceeding £173,650 be granted to Her Majesty to defray the second moiety of the charge payable by Great Britain under the treaty, dated the 16th day of July, 1863, for the Redemption of the Scheldt Toll, to the 31st day of March, 1865."
 MR. PEEL,  in moving that the House resolve into a Committee to consider the Isle of Man Disafforestation (Compensation), stated that in 1860 the Legislature of the Isle of Man thought it expedient to pass an Act for disafforesting a certain forest in that island, and Commissioners were appointed to ascertain the value of the different rights, and divide the revenue between the commoners and the Crown. There were certain parties who held under licences according to the custom of the manor lands for which they paid rent, but which were not enclosed and which remained subject to the rights of the commoners. The Commissioners, having no power to deal with their claims, included these lands in the boundaries of the forest, which, after the sale of a certain portion to defray expenses, was divided between the Crown and the commoners. These claimants had since made representations to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, in consequence of which an arrangement had been come to with the commoners and the local Legislature that the Commissioners should be empowered to examine the claims of those parties, and award them compensation to an amount not exceeding £5,000, one-half to be paid by the Crown and the other by the commoners. The commoners agreed that a sufficient portion of that part of the land should be sold to raise £2,500. The object of the Bill, which he sought to found upon the Resolution which he was about to propose, was to authorize the payment of £2,500 out of the capital of the Crown revenues for this purpose.
 MR. PEEL,  in reply, said, he understood that there were two vessels on the Liverpool, Halifax, and Boston line, which were about seventeen years old, but it did not appear that any complaints had occurred of delay on that line which the contractors had not been able to account for. With regard to any future arrangement, he found that the existing contract did not expire until 1867, so that there were three years in which to consider such arrangement. He was aware that the Committee on Contracts of 1860 had expressed an opinion that no subsidy was necessary on that line; that there might be an efficient postal service without a subsidy; and in considering what should be the future arrangement of a contract, the view expressed by that Committee should not be lost sight of.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether, in the present state of the enclosure in Leicester Square, it would be in the power of the Government either to remove or repair the mutilated statue, and otherwise improve the dilapidated condition of the space in the centre of the Square; and, considering that the locality is used as so common a resort among foreigners, whether any steps could be taken to render it more suitable to the proper appearance of a public thoroughfare in the Metropolis?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the dirty and disorderly condition of Leicester Square was an evidence of the want of any control or authority on the part of the Government over that ill-fated quarter of the town. It was not Crown property; if it were, any one who held his (Mr. Cowper's) office would not consent that the person of His Majesty George II. should be presented to the public in its present mutilated and ridiculous form. The statue had only one leg, and that a crooked one, and only one arm, which was quite distorted. The difficulty was that Leicester Square was claimed as private property, and that the owners were not prepared to fulfil the duties that attached to them. The year before last, however, an Act was passed called the "Gardens in Towns Act," intended to remedy this very disastrous and disgraceful state of things; and this Act would shortly come into operation. It empowered the Metropolitan Board to undertake the management, and in the absence of any well-defined rights on the part of others, to repair the railings, clean the walks, and put the statue in order. The Metropolitan Board of Works had given the necessary notice, which would expire in about four months, and by next July he trusted that the Metropolitan Board would be able to interfere and improve the condition of the square.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would now beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, with a view to re-establish friendly relations with Brazil, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in a Bill this Session for the repeal of the Act (8 & 9  Vict.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, I have listened with much attention to the ingenious, ingenuous, clear, and candid statement of the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, and with equal attention to the able and manly criticisms of the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington). After such able and lengthened statements made in regard to the efficiency or otherwise of the navy,
 1388 1389 Warrior 1390 Royal Sovereign 1391 Alabama 1392
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  moved for leave to introduce a short Bill to amend the Union of Benefices Act of 1860. As the House were no doubt aware, by that Act the sale of the site of any church which might have become useless by the union of two benefices could only take place by the consent of the Secretary of State, the Archbishop, the Bishop of the diocese, and the Archdeacon. The church of St. Benet's, Gracechurch Street, having become unnecessary by the union of that parish with another, it was proposed, with the sanction of all parties concerned, except that of the Archdeacon, to sell the site. The
 1459
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  did not oppose the production of the papers in question if coupled with other correspondence on the same subject; but complained of the resist-
 1461
 MR. LYGON  defended hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House from the aspersion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and suggested that it would be better for the House to be put in possession of the views of the Archdeacon in his own words, in order to see whether he had not exercised his discretionary power wisely. If a measure passed on a grave question after full consideration was to be disturbed within a year or two in the manner now proposed, an impediment might be thrown in the way of future legislative compromises being come to by the House.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto) had reference, in a great measure, to the forts and guns which are being constructed, and though, no doubt, guns form an important element in the consideration of iron-clad ships, yet, as we shall have other and more appropiate opportunities of discussing the question of guns, I do not think it necessary to enter into it at this moment, and therefore I shall proceed to the controversy on the subject of ships. I was extremely anxious on Monday night to answer certain criticisms of the right hon. Member for Droitwich the same evening with regard to the construction of our armour-ships, as my right hon. Friend had most courteously given me notice that he meant to advert to this matter; but I regret that, in consequence of many hon. Members wishing to address the Committee, I was unable to answer him before the House resumed. Now, first let me state that the Government have no desire for concealment; and the only thing that displeased me in my right hon. Friend's speech was his impression that we were afraid to face the truth.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I shall come to that. Now, the terms used by my right hon. Friend were strong terms, and implied that there was a wish on our part to conceal the truth. It is true that on many occasions I have felt it to be my duty to refuse to produce the Reports made by officers on ships of the Royal Navy; and I warn the House that if it be their pleasure to have all reports of officers, whether naval or military, laid upon the table of the House, this is what will happen—instead of the Government getting what we get now, confidential reports containing the most minute details of the opinions of officers, given frankly and freely for the heads of Departments, we shall
 1403 Research,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Well, be that as it may, I understood it so, and under these peculiar circumstances I thought I ought to lay on the table the Commander-in-Chief's Report. But my hon. Friend has never referred to it, and never repeated his statement; because, as I conclude, he saw
 1404 Warrior, Black Prince, Defence, Resistance. Resistance, Warrior, Black Prince, Defence. Resistance. Resistance Defence Black Prince Warrior. Warrior Black Prince. "The stability of all the ships is great—their rolling and pitching did not appear to exceed that of the wooden ship  Revenge. Resistance
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : No; this is the Report of the previous year. Admiral Dacres in the year following had under his command the  Warrior, Black Prince, Defence, Resistance, Royal Oak, 1405 Prince Consort, Research, Enterprise, Warrior Black Prince "For long voyages, and where the power to make rapid passages is of importance, these vessels are unrivalled. Even as at present rigged they can keep pace with vessels of the old class. Their great drawback is their extreme length; they are unhandy, and even with experienced officers the risk of taking them into such harbours as Cork and Lisbon is great." Warrior
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I think under both on that occasion.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I feel certain that she had sails set and was under steam likewise on that occasion. "In common weather," the Admiral goes on to say, "they are remarkably steady," but he does not think highly of their qualities in a heavy gale—
 "Their want of buoyancy, even with unprotected ends, is manifest, though in this respect they are superior to vessels completely armour-plated. Their want of armour belt at the water-line lessens their efficiency as large chasing ships, when they would be exposed to dangerous fire from a slower vessel." "In all varieties of general service, "Admiral Dacres says," I prefer the  Defence Resistance
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The  Defence 1406 "She is a safe vessel, and can at all times be trusted with her screw up. Under steam she is a good serviceable vessel, and a very healthy ship. She is like all the fast ironclads, vulnerable at the ends, and her stern and rudder are exposed," pari passu Hector Hector Valiant Hector "This vessel, from the weight of her armour, is the worst of the large class of iron clads. She pitches deeply, and is quick in rolling. Her sailing qualities are bad." Royal Oak Prince Consort.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : At any rate that was the argument of the right hon. Baronet. Admiral Dacres says of the  Royal Oak Prince Consort "These ships are invaluable for Channel service as block ships. Both are handy, though slow under sail. Their steaming powers even against a moderate sea are considerable." Royal Oak 1407 Research Enterprise. Research "She is comfortable below in fine weather; has good accommodation for officers and men, for stowage of provisions and stores; her ventilation is excellent." "In Sir John Pakington's speech, as reported in  The Times 1408 Enterprise, "This is the best iron-clad yet built, and vessels of 4,000 tons built on this plan with some improvements, and with the same careful attention to interior arrangements, would be safer and better for every purpose than any iron-clad we have afloat."
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  hoped the Vote for Wages and Victuals would be taken.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I wish to say one word in explanation. The  Resistance Defence Warrior.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : They were not taken out to be put into the  Victoria. Victoria Royal Sovereign, Royal Sovereign Minotaur Northumberland. 1415 Northumberland, Northumberland, Warrior. Resistance Defence, 1416
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It is not a mistake. I took down his words and tried to correct him at the time. The fact is, his gossips gave him the name of the wrong ship. The  Royal Alfred Royal Alfred Royal Alfred 1412 Trusty, "If you let me make a cupola of such a peculiar shape that it will have a very small top and a very large base, the shots will glance off." Prince Albert, Royal Alfred. 1413 Royal Sovereign Prince Albert Monitors, Merrimac Monitor. Royal Sovereign, 1414 Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign. Excellent, Excellent
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The hon. Gentleman knows that with an ironclad vessel of 900 tons you cannot get high speed. Nobody knows better than he does that it is quite impossible to combine all these matters in a small ship. You cannot have light draught of water, small tonnage, and great speed combined with efficient protection from armour. These are all matters of compromise; and if you have only vessels of 6,000 tons, and have to attack batteries in narrow waters, I ask you what will be accomplished by vessels like the  Warrior, Agincourt, Minotaur? "The  Enterprise Research Enterprise, Research Research 1409 Enterprise Research. Research Revenge, Edgar, Trafalgar, Hero, Conqueror, Aboukir, Centurion, Porpoise "In the case of meeting with bad weather, you are to avoid all unnecessary wear and tear by taking shelter from it when practicable." Defence, Resistance, Revenge, Black Prince, Warrior, "Every opportunity is to be taken for trying the qualities of the ships and for exercising their crews, but we do not wish the ships to be exposed to the risk of damage from bad weather, and you are, therefore, to consult your own discretion in taking the squadron to sea or remaining at anchor in the Tagus." 1410
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, I cannot acquit my hon. Friends opposite for quoting rumours—it is a sort of skirmishing in which they might naturally indulge; but when a Gentleman who had held the high office of First Lord of the Admiralty tells the Committee that he has heard rumours that our fleet is unfit to go to sea, that it could neither fight nor encounter a gale, it is a much more serious matter. But to proceed. Admiral Dacres was ordered on the 20th of August, 1864, to proceed with the following ships:— Edgar, Warrior, Black Prince, Prince Consort, Hector, Defence, Aurora, Enterprise, "Steam evolutions are to be performed at convenient opportunities, and my Lords desire you will test the qualities of the ships under sail and steam, avoiding their exposure unnecessarily to damage from bad weather." Royal Alfred 1411 every Prince Albert, Royal Alfred.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any communications have been received during the last six months, at the Foreign Office, from the American Government, or the American Minister, demanding compensation for losses occasioned to Citizens of the United States by the operations of the  Alabama,
 MR. AYRTON  hoped the House would reconsider the useless and wanton alterations introduced into the Act which this Bill was intended to amend. Hon. Gentlemen opposite would render the Church odious if they succeeded in making it merely profitable to the minister without being of service to the people.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the explanation which he had given, but urged that the House was bound to examine the provisions of the Bill with great caution, because the
 1458
 MR. LAYARD : In answer to the noble Lord, I have to state that no such communications have been received from the United States Government.
 MR. LAYARD : In reply to the hon. Member, I have to state, that there are claims, of course, on the part of the English Government, and that they have been forwarded to the United States Government.
 MR. SEELY,  referring to the Admiralty accounts, said, it was quite evident from what had taken place that he and his hon. Friend the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) could come to no agreement with respect to them. He therefore begged to repeat the offer which he had made
 1456 Falcon,
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he has been correctly understood to mean that the House of Lords claim the privilege of granting Pensions out of the Public Money to their own Officers as of their own authority, without the cognizance or consent either of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Secretary to the Treasury, or the House of Commons?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had listened with great pleasure to much of the speech of the noble Lord who opened the debate, and only regretted that he could not regard the whole of it with the same feelings of satisfaction. He heard of an addition to the wages of the seamen with pleasure, because he believed that up to the present time they had always been underpaid; and that whenever there was a difficulty in manning the British navy, it was because they were not willing to pay the market price for the article wanted, and were always outbid by the mercantile marine. He also heard with great pleasure the decision to which the Admiralty had come with respect to the dock at Malta; for he never could understand how anybody could arrive at such a conclusion as that announced by the Government last year, and he thought it did great credit to the First Lord that he had the good sense to go out
 1435 1436 1437
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK,  refer-ring to the application of the term "recalcitrant" to the Archdeacon of London by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. E. P. Bouverie) the other night, said he hoped the hon. Member for Buckingham would persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was sure he expressed the feeling of the House when he said they were glad to have heard his hon. Friend the Member for Halifax again in a naval debate, and he thought there was no hon. Member, whether a naval officer or a civilian, who must not have derived instruction from the logical speech of his hon. Friend. He rejoiced to hear the clear statement of his hon. Friend on the naval problem of the day as to attack and defence. His hon. Friend had commented on the word "uncertain" being placed on the margin of the programme opposite the names of the  Lord Clyde Lord Warden Bellerophon Lord Warden 1445 Falcon 1446 Faloon. 1447 nolens volens. rectificatif. 1448
 MR. STANSFELD  said, a number of questions had been brought before the attention of the Committee which turned upon the general policy of the Estimates that had been laid upon the table. He would leave the subject of increased dock accommodation until Vote 11 was before the House, but would wish at present to speak of other matters. The Votes that were most important were Votes Nos. 1, 8, 10, for they indicated the views of the Admiralty on the mutual relations of men, ships, and guns—relations which had undergone, and were in the process of undergoing, changes which would bring about results second only in importance to the effects which the invention of gunpowder had produced upon warlike operations both by sea and land. His hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), if he would allow him to call him so, had dwelt upon the reduction of seamen and Marines which would follow the passing of Vote 1. It appeared to him that that reduction had been explained in an extremely satisfactory manner by his noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty, not only on the point of mere economy, but of efficiency and real power. He showed in a clear manner that the decreased number of men with an almost identical money Vote meant increased pay and increased comforts to officers and men, a higher class of men and a greater proportion of officers, and more educated skill in manipulating the engines of naval
 1438 Lord Clyde, Bellerophon, Lord Warden. Lord Clyde Bellerophon Lord Warden, 1439 Bellerophon Bellerophon Amazon 1440 prestige prestige rationale 1441 Gloire. Warrior Warrior Bellerophon, 1442 1443 Warrior, Minotaur, Bellerophon, 1444 sine qua non Monitors
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to ask my hon. Friend, whether it is a fact that the English Government have got very numerous claims against the Government of the United
 1373
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he strongly objected to the omission of the Archdeacon from those whose assent was required for the sale of the site of a church. The assents of the Archbishop of Canterbury, of the Bishop of London, and the Home Secretary, were given as a matter of form to any proposal under the Act; but the office of Archdeacon gave him peculiar functions and peculiar duties in relation to the church—such, for instance, as seeing that the remains of those who had been buried in the churchyard perhaps hundreds of years before were decently and reverently removed. It might be, as the hon. Gentleman had stated, that the Archdeacon in the case referred to had refused his assent to the sale simply because he objected altogether to the policy of the Act; or it might be that he objected because the provisions of the Act had not been complied with by the Order in Council and the proposal of the Commissioners. He, therefore, moved that copies of the Order in Council and of all correspondence between the Archdeacon and the Commissioners on the subject be laid upon the
 1460
 MR. LAIRD  said, he would confine himself to two or three points which he considered of much importance. First, he was glad to hear from the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, that those most important and desirable works—namely, the extension of docks and basins—were to be completed at the earliest possible time. When he first became a Member of the House it was considered that the extension of these works would cause a great expense without a corresponding benefit; but he was glad to hear that the noble Lord had never changed his opinion upon the matter. Before he became a Member of the House he was asked to give evidence before the Committee upon the extension of Chatham Dockyard, but he was unable to do so. The Report, however, was sent to him, and
 1424 Achilles 1425 1426 Alabama "What ship have we to blockade New York?—The  Defence Resistance Warrior Black Prince "What cruising ships have we to protect our trade?—The  Orlando, Mersey, Galatea, Ariadne, Doris, Diadem "What could one of our common 50-gun frigates, with their present thirty-five guns, do against the  Minnesota Minnesota Brooklyn Entaw "Would our improved  Alabamas 1427 Warrior, Agincourt, Minotaur, 1428 Royal Sovereign, Prince Albert, Scorpion, Wyvern; Royal Sovereign Prince Albert Warrior. 1429 Bellerophon, Achilles. Achilles," 1430 Bellerophon, Warrior, Defence, Black Prince 1431 Alabama. Prince Consort
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he has any objection to state to the House the substance of the information received by the English Packet, as to the condition of affairs in the River Plate; and, whether instructions have been given to the British Minister and Admiral to prevent a recurrence at Monte Video of a similarly deplorable sacrifice of life and property by the Brazilians and Insurgent Forces, as the Under Secretary of State lately mentioned
 1372
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he had every respect for the Archdeacon of London, but was informed that he had set his back against the wall and would not make himself a party to the pulling down of any church, thereby obstructing the execution of an Act of Parliament. This Bill would, therefore, relieve the rev. Gentleman of a duty which he could not perform without wounding his conscience.
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, the hon. Baronet (Sir James Elphinstone) appeared to be very angry with the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty for not having produced Admiral Dacres's Report  in extenso; "The documents in question were confidential papers presented to the Admiralty, and it would be neither in accordance with precedent nor beneficial to the public service to produce them. He had already communicated the substance of them to the House in the statement he had made in introducing the Estimates."—[3  Hansard, cliii.300. in extenso,
 MR. WHITBREAD : The state of the navy. But, passing from that subject, he wished to observe with respect to Malta Dockyard, about which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich, the hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth, and the hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield were so jubilant, that the decision which was at first arrived at in reference to it was perfectly reasonable, although the lapse of time might have made a difference in the bearings of the question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Vote was proposed according to the arrangement between the contracting parties. No new principle was involved in the present Vote. The English Government dissented from the proposal of Belgium that the charge of redemption
 1457
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although this, like every other measure, ought to be carefully examined by the House, there was no reason for suspicion, at all events in the interests of the people of the Isle of Man, for whose benefit alone it was that the Bill was introduced. Whether this was part of the original patrimony of the Crown, or had been purchased out of the Consolidated Fund, was an entirely irrelevant question. It had been treated as part of the Crown lands when the settlement of the Civil List was made with the present Sovereign in 1837, and it must be so dealt with now.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, if the hon. Member and the House will favour me with their attention, I will give as clear an answer as I can to the Question; but I am not quite certain that my information is complete, inasmuch as it is not a subject with which it is the practice of any public Department to interfere. In the first place, with regard to whether the House of Lords has any claim or privilege to grant pensions. I am not aware whether the manner in which the necessary expenses of the House of Lords are defrayed has ever been the subject of any discussion between that branch of the Legislature and the House of Commons or any other body, and as to the theory on the subject, therefore, I have nothing to say; but with regard to the practice, I believe it is as follows:—The House of Lords votes or adjudges what they consider to be the necessary and reasonable expenses connected with the transaction of their business out of what is called the "fee fund." That is the rule as to the greater part of the expenses of the House of Lords. It is not, however, the rule with regard to the whole of them, for there are certain charges connected with the House of Lords which are voted annually. In the Estimates for the year now about to close the following sums were voted by this House in the ordinary manner. For the salary of the Chairman of Committees, £2,500; for the Counsel to the Chairman of Committees, £1,500; for certain expenses in the Department of the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, £2,800;
 1371
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If the British and North American Royal Mail Steamship Company are employing Vessels seventeen years old on the Halifax and Boston line; and if, at the expiry of the Contract with that Company, the Government intend making new arrangements by which the postal service may be performed with more expedition and at less expense to the country than under the present subsidized system?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that some alarming statements had been made in the course of this debate. He regretted to have heard it said that after spending £58,000,000, in case of an emergency the British navy would not be competent to meet an adversary on the sea; because such statements would have a prejudicial effect throughout the country and also abroad. It had been said that ships which were armed from stem to stern would not be seaworthy. This was very lamentable, if true; and he was more disposed to agree in the statement, because a distinguished engineer had said to him that the heavy-armoured ships would be likely to be proved divers, but that unfortunately
 1421 1422 1423
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  observed, that although many important questions had been raised and ably discussed, they were not necessarily involved in the consideration of the important Vote which the House had to determine. He did not mean to enter upon the great question of ship building, particularly as the question must
 1432 1433 bond fide 1434
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  asked for information as to the basis of the calculation between the two countries. Why should this country pay half of this moiety?
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  moved to report Progress.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  thought the person who had most right to complain of the debate which had taken place was Admiral Dacres, for the noble Lord had merely given what he called the substance of his Report instead of giving it  in extenso. in extenso, 1454 Research Research Royal Alfred, Hector Valiant Hector Royal Oak Prince Consort 1455
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE : I beg pardon; I never made an insinuation against the noble Lord's statement.
 SIR JOHN HAY : May I ask whether she was then under steam or sail?
 SIR JOHN HAY : Does the Report mention the  Prince Consort Royal Oak.
 SIR JOHN HAY : Will the hon. and gallant Gentleman give us the speed?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he thought it but fair to congratulate and thank his noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty, for the increase of pay which had been accorded to the officers and men of the Royal Navy—an increase which he believed would be found perfectly satisfactory. But while he thought that considerable credit was due to his noble Friend for what had been done, still more was due to his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) and the Committee over which he presided; because he held that his right hon. Friend and the Committee by their Report and recommendations had strengthened the hands of the noble Lord in a direction to which he was already favourable. He hoped, however, that his noble Friend would consider the question of graduating the pay of the lieutenants, because he held that the case of the old lieutenants was one well deserving consideration. The junior lieutenants were tolerably well paid; but when an officer, after serving some twelve or fourteen years, would have no hope of rising to the higher ranks of his profession, it was, he thought, but fair that he should receive an increased remuneration for his services. Upon the Vote immediately under discussion he would also call attention to the fact that the Admiralty had hardly done justice to the pay of those Commanders-in-Chief whose case had so frequently been brought under the consideration of the House. Sir James Hope, a distinguished officer, stated in his evidence that while on the China station his necessary expenses amounted to £7,000 a year, whilst the pay of his successor was only £3,000 a year. It was not fair to expect officers to spend so much of their private fortune in order to maintain their position. This circumstance also had the effect of limiting the choice of the Admiralty to a comparatively few officers, because there were many officers who were perfectly eligible in other respects, but to whom such an appointment would be utter ruin. Another point to which he wished to call attention was the regulation concerning officers completing the sea time for their flag. The Admiralty had made a rule that no captain serving in a harbour ship should count the time so served as part of the time he was required to serve for the flag unless he had served three years at sea. That rule was a good one
 1393 1394 1395 Bombay, Hector 1396 1397 Bombay 1398 Octavia, 1399 Royal Sovereign. Royal Sovereign 1400 Ré Galantuomo, Garadoc, Chanticleer, Cossack, Firefly, Gibraltar, Hibernia; Hydra, Liffey, Magicienne, Meeanee, Orlando, Pelican, Phoebe, Psyche, Racer, Racoon, Resistance, Revenge, Royal Oak, Surprise, Victoria, Wanderer, Weser, Enterprise. Antelope, Archer, Dart, Espoir, Griffin, 5, Investigator, Jaseur, 5, Lee, 5, Mullet, 5, Pandora, 5, 1401 Banger, 5, Rattlesnake, Snipe, 5, Sparrow, 5, Speedwell, Wye, Zebra, Rattlesnake Zebra Aurora, Bulldog, Buzzard, Challenger, Cordelia, Sygnet, 5, Duncan, Fawn, Galatea, Lily, Medea, Nimble, Petrel, Phaeton, Plover, 5, Pylades, Rinaldo, Rosario, Royalist, Shannon, Steady, 5, Styx, Virago, Wolverine, Monitor 1402
 SIR JOHN HAY : What was the subject of Sir Baldwin Walker's letters?
 SIR JOHN HAY : In taking efficient men out of the  Royal Sovereign Victoria,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had referred to the  Royal Alfred Prince Albert. The Times Prince Albert, Royal Alfred.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I must really correct the noble Lord. I made no assertions on the subject. I mentioned certain things as rumours, and asked if they were true. I did not say they were true, as I had no personal knowledge of them; but I thought it fair to give the noble Lord an opportunity of explaining them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I thought it my duty a few evenings ago to call the attention of the House to the state of our navy, and to raise a question the importance of which no one will deny—namely, whether that vast sum of £57,000,000 granted by Parliament during the last five years has been expended advantageously and with proper judgment and discretion. Sir, I raised that question as fairly as I could, and I called upon the noble Lord opposite for an explanation. The noble Lord has this evening given us this explanation, and I should be quite content to leave the explanation which he
 1449 1450 Warrior, Black Prince, Defence, Resistance. Defence. Defence. Defence Defence Warrior Black Prince Defence Resistance 1451 Defence Resistance Enterprise 1452 Prince Albert Royal Alfred The Times. Prince Albert Prince Albert? Prince Albert Royal Alfred 1453
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : We were advised from all parts of England that we could not combine all the qualities we required in the  Warrior Defence Warrior, Warrior Defence
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  was understood to deny that he had used the words imputed to him.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I never said so. The noble Lord is entirely misquoting me.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : But is my noble Friend able to say with certainty, because that is an important distinction?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I referred to the non-production of Admiral Dacres'a Report.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  saw no objection to the production of the correspondence with the Archdeacon, but thought it ought to satisfy hon. Gentlemen opposite if it were laid on the table before the second reading of the Bill.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that in resuming the discussion, he must first express his regret that the forms of the House did not admit of an evening being fixed for a debate on the whole policy of the Navy, while uncertainty as to the hour when the Navy Estimates would come under discussion was scarcely consistent with the importance and gravity of the subject. Before he proceeded to make any remarks upon the Estimates, he wished to express his regret at the absence of the hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay), and he was sure he had the entire sympathy of the Committee when he said that regret was increased by the circumstances which prevented his attendance. The first thing to which he wished to direct the attention of the Committee was the form in which the accounts were presented. It was but fair to the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty that he should say that the House had never obtained so much information, or obtained so good an insight into the affairs of the Navy, as had been given since the noble Lord held his present office. He was also bound to say that he regarded the appointment of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) with extreme satisfaction. They had all been sorry to lose the services of the hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld), but a better appointment than that of his successor the Government could not have made. They had had a promise from the hon. Gentleman that the accounts of the Navy would be rendered to the House in
 1374 1375 1376 1377 1378 Warrior Black Prince, Prince Alfred, Prince Consort Prince Consort Prince Alfred hors de combat. Royal Alfred 1379 "I think the duties of the Controller are quite sufficiently laborious without his being at the Board to represent his Department there; and I do not think he can give sufficient time to the question of experiments and scientific improvements which are constantly coming before the Board.…There are many things connected with the fittings of ships at this moment
 1380 Royal Sovereign in 1381 "On all occasions the ship behaved remarkably well. She is more buoyant than I should have anticipated; very fast considering how coarse a bow she has, and not wetter than might be expected for a vessel purposely cut down for harbour defence only. "The turrets and guns work admirably. We have now fired in all 177 rounds under all conditions; the rolling of the ship does not affect the evolutions of either turret or gun." "I see no limit to the weight of ordnance which may be worked upon the turret principle, and there are many ways in which the revolving platform, apart from the iron-cased turret, might be applied with the best result to any of our ordinary cruisers, whether of wood or iron. As yet we have not carried away a gun-breeching nor hurt so much as a man's finger nail in the working of our guns and turrets." "I am of opinion that the  Royal Sovereign Warrior, Hector, Research 1382 Royal Sovereign Warrior "Vessels like the  Royal Sovereign Monitors 1383 Monitors, 1384 v. 1385 "I send you a poor fellow who has not a shilling in his pocket, but many brains in his head; and I think you will find him worthy." 1386 1387
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In answer, Sir, to the Question of the hon. Gentleman, I have to say that, according to the latest accounts, an attack was likely to be made on the town of Monte Video, by the sea forces of Brazil, and the land forces of General Flores, assisted in some degree by a Brazilian force. The naval commander of the British force in the River Plate remonstrated with the Brazilian commander upon the presumed intention of bombarding the town of Monte Video, and urged strongly that precaution should be taken that the property and persons of foreigners, of whom a great many are British subjects, should be exempted as far as possible from injury in such an event. Further details are to follow, and papers on the subject are being prepared—those most recently received in conjunction with the others. I am sorry that war is carried on in that part of the world on principles not very congenial to the feelings of Europeans; but we are not interfering in that war, except by earnest representations that it should be carried on with as little danger to the persons and property of foreigners as possible.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No, Sir, it is not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill to repeal the Act, and for this reason, that if the Act were repealed the slave trade between the coast of Africa and Brazil would be resumed to any, even to the most unlimited, extent. And, with the best intentions on the part of the Brazilian Government, it would be futile to prevent it, as we see by the example of Cuba, where the Captain General is most honestly and sincerely anxious to put an end to the trade, but the venality of his subordinate officers entirely defeats and frustrates his intentions.
 1370
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Surely, as you have voted the men you must give us the money to maintain them.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was intended to introduce a Bill this Session founded on some of the recommendations of the Commission.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, in reply, that last Session a Bill had been introduced by the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Dodson), founded on the recommendations of the Select Committee; but with respect to this year, that hon. Member was unable to bring it forward again, on account of his now holding the position in the House as Chairman of Committees. The hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), had introduced a Bill founded upon the recommendations of the Select Committee, although, from the explanations of the hon. Member, it appeared that he did not go so far as the Committee. Under these circumstances, it was not the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill on the subject.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the fact of a Stipendiary Magistrate having signed a requisition to the Lord Mayor of Dublin to convene a meeting to form an association for certain political objects; and, if so, whether he considers it consistent with the duty of a Stipendiary Magistrate to sign such a requisition?
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has had under his consideration the Letter from the Senate of the University of London, dated November 10, 1864, on the subject of a Building for the University; and whether he proposes to take any, and, if so, what steps, with a view to meet the wishes of that body, as explained in the specification which has been laid before him?
 MR. COWPER  replied, that he had received a communication from the Senate of the University, stating in detail the accommodation they considered necessary for the proper transaction of the business of the University. It was, however, a matter involving several important questions, and was still under the consideration of the Government, no decision having yet been come to.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it be his intention to rectify the singular anomaly in our Tariff—namely, that while wooden ships and all' articles manufactured of wood, are allowed to enter British ports free, the raw material wood is subjected to a duty?
 LORD STANLEY  said, he did not know whether there was very much use in giving expression on this occasion to any theory of colonization. Theories were generally amusing and sometimes useful, but facts were stubborn things, and what was about to happen in New Zealand would follow, totally irrespective of any opinions which hon. Members might entertain, or of any theory which they might lay down in that House. It was quite idle, on the one hand, to talk of the policy of exterminating the Natives, though he did not understand the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Roebuck) to advocate that. He did not think that was a practicable policy, because at this moment we had not succeeded even in putting them down; and it was equally idle to talk of peace, because the Natives were in arms against us, they had the advantage of a very strong country, their blood was up, they had, on the whole, suffered less inconvenience from the war than our colonists, and, whatever our opinion might be about the origin of the war, it was quite plain that there was nothing now for it but to make it clear to both parties that the Europeans had force upon their side. He did not see any advantage now in going into the question of Maori civilization or the future progress of the race. This much he took to be certain, that long before the war they were as a race greatly diminished in number, from causes, as had been variously explained, more or less permanent in their operation, and when this war came to an end the same process would go on, and, as in similar cases, the race would disappear. That he believed had happened in every case in which civilized colonists had come into contact with savages of different races. It was not necessarily a question of violence or expulsion from lands; but the Natives could not bear the change of habits; they could not refrain from drink, which was brought within their reach. That was a temptation which they could seldom resist. Then their mode of fighting, barbarous as it was, served to keep them in the practice of manly exercises and habits; and it had been found in various parts where whatever was possible had been done for the protection of the Natives, that their old habits being put an end to, work being odious to them, and all their former organization and discipline being lost, they gradually degenerated and died out from no assignable cause. So
 1506 1507
 LORD STANLEY  explained that he had not intended to lay down any general principle for the conduct of future colonial wars, but was speaking only of what was to be done in the present war. The House seemed to be generally of opinion that the colonists should not be led to expect military assistance from England in future wars of the same kind; but having been partners in getting them into this trouble, it would not be fair to desert them altogether, or wholly to withdraw our assistance for the present, and the only point was to see that that assistance was reduced to the absolute minimum of what was necessary.
 LORD STANLEY  explained that he had said that that was the general tendency of barbarian races in countries partly occupied by civilized people.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, he understood there was no objection to the Motion, and he should not therefore preface it by any explanation.
 COLONEL DICKSON  thought the hon. Baronet was in error when he entertained the idea that the Bill was not to be opposed. The object of the Bill was to assimilate the time for shooting game in Ireland and England, and as no allowance was made for the variation in the climate and the time of the harvest, he regarded the proposal as one which was objectionable in every way, both to the sportsman and the farmer. He should move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. PEEL  said, there was no doubt that the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Motion had laid great stress upon having the authority of a Committee for his proposition, and that being the case the Chancellor of the Exchequer was perfectly justified in pointing out that that Committee took no evidence with respect to this particular question; that the Chairman, though this point was included in the reference, passed it over all together, and that of the eight Members present at the time when part of the Report was adopted only four Members voted for the Motion which added the passage relied on by the hon. Member. It was true that in 1846 half of the charge of the medical officers and of the salaries of the masters of workhouse schools was transferred from the local rates to the Estimates, upon the ground that it was desirable that the Government should have some control over the appointment of medical officers and of the manner in which the schoolmasters of those schools performed their duties; and another object was to give some relief to the agricultural interest in view of the competition to which
 1524 1525
 MR THOMAS BARING  said, he did not rise to object to the introduction of the Bill. He thought there was no reason for supposing that in the theatres licensed by the Lord Chamberlain in the metropolis, sufficient precautions were not taken for the safe egress of the public. He wished to state that, so far as he was acquainted with the theatres of this metropolis, the Lord Chamberlain, with whom the licensing of those buildings rested, had taken every precaution on behalf of the public for providing adequate means of egress, and that there was no ground whatever for complaint on that subject. When the Bill was printed the House would be better able to judge of the proposal made in the other portion of it for the settlement of the question between theatres and music halls. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would not fix an early day for the second reading of the measure, as it was desirable that ample opportunity should be afforded for considering its provisions.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that he was glad that the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had denied the sentiments which his speech appeared to many Members to convey—namely, a policy of extermination. If he had known something more of the Natives of New Zealand, and of their conduct during the war, he would have seen that they were under the influence of Christianity and civilization, and he never would have made the observations which he had given expression to. It was stated in the official despatches that the war had been conducted on the part of the Natives much more like a war of civilized people than of savages.
 LOUD ALFRED CHURCHILL  said, that the Ministry of New Zealand had been nettled by an apparent charge made against them by persons in this country, and also by Her Majesty's representative, that they were by opposing him
 1504
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  thought that some remarks which had fallen from his noble Friend were calculated to give false ideas of what the Natives really complained of with respect to the land question. His noble Friend said that what the colonists felt aggrieved at was that the Native tribes would not allow individual Natives to sell their land to individual settlers. But the individual Natives had no land to sell. The land was held in common by the whole tribe, and an individual Native had no more right to sell his share without asking his tribe than an individual commoner had in England to carve his bit out of the common and sell it without consulting the rest of the freeholders. The complaint of the settlers, therefore, was wholly unjust, for they were asking that the individual Natives should have a power which the Native
 1508 1509
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS,  who had given notice "to call the attention of the House to the state of affairs in New Zealand, and to move an Address to the Crown on the subject of the war in that colony," said, that at the close of last Session he had given notice that at the reassembling of Parliament, if the war in New Zealand were not concluded, he should move an Address to Her Majesty representing that as the Colonial Government had assumed the entire control of the Native policy of the colony, Her Majesty's forces ought no longer to be employed in a contest over which the Imperial Government had no control. The information last received from the colony was to the effect that a new Ministry, with a new policy, had come into power, that they intended in future to fight their own battles and pay their own bills, and that five regiments of Her Majesty's troops were now under notice of recall, and it might therefore be thought that the object he (Mr. Arthur Mills) sought by his Motion had been attained. There would certainly be less need for him to occupy the time of the House at any length. The
 1482 1483 1484 1485
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he rose to ask the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) as Chairman of the Westminster Improvement Commission, whether any, and what, feteps have been taken by the Commission to secure the erection of buildings suitable for the accommodation of the Mechanic and Working Classes, of whose dwellings in Westminster so wide a clearance has been made by the proceedings of the Commission. The subject, suggested by this notice, was one which had attracted at various periods a good deal of attention in this House. The progress of improvement had had results which seriously affected the working classes, for their residences had been displaced from time to time to an extent which inflicted upon those classes great loss and inconvenience. The railroads not only in the outskirts but in the metropolis itself produced extensive clearances; then there was the great clearance in the vicinity of the Strand for the new Courts of Justice; then there were those clearances which had been made on Lord Westminster's estate, and in that case he was glad to hear it stated in the House a few nights since that the noble Marquess had taken measures to secure the erection of proper residences for those of the working classes whose houses had been removed. If any duty more than another attached to large properties of this kind which covered a large area it was in his (Mr. A. Smith's) opinion that of building proper dwellings for the working men employed on an estate, or which were essential to the various branches of trade and industry required by the necessities of the
 1526
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had observed truly that a great nation like this had a tendency to spread itself over the waste parts of the earth, and that a vigorous nation coming in contact with barbarous tribes was likely to predominate; but when he went on to say that a powerful nation, which, coming in contact with barbarous tribes, sought to act with the least possible cruelty towards those tribes, and, whether successful or not, showed itself willing to make every sacrifice to enable it to live with them in peace and social progress—was enacting a farce, and those who recommended such a course were nothing better than canting hypocrites, he must altogether dissent from those virtuous principles of which he claimed a monopoly in that House. The hon. and learned Gentleman said he would rather that we should look honestly on Maories as wild animals. Wild men should be treated by us as wild beasts. That was the more virtuous view which the hon. Member proposed, but in saying so he only succeeded in the object which he proposed to himself in rising to speak, that of saying something offensive to the feelings of everybody else in the House. For his own part, he regarded the attempts made by Englishmen to enable the Maori race to live with them, as creditable to this country. And he did
 1498 1499 1500
 MR. BUXTON  observed, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down began by saying there were some persons in this country who arrogated to themselves an exceptional right to abuse everybody else. Now, he should have thought that if there was any human being, he would not say in that House, but on the face of the whole earth, who arrogated to himself the exceptional right to abuse everybody else, it was that hon. and learned Gentleman himself. The hon. and learned Member said that in entering into the Treaty of Waitangi with the Natives we acted like the man who gave lollypops to a child to induce him to give up his estate, and that the Maories were as children who could not look forward. But one of the main causes which led to that war was the deliberate and organized attempt on the part of the Natives to prevent the alienation of their lands. He thought it one of the most glorious features in the history of this country that, at any rate, for the last twenty or thirty years, instead of dealing with the aboriginal races of our colonies in the fashion advocated by the hon. and learned Gentleman, the colonists and the Government had felt the responsibility of dealing with them with the humanity and justice that were due to them. The proposal to which his hon. Friend (Mr. Arthur Mills) had called the attention of the House was that Great Britain should withdraw her troops, now amounting to about 12,000 men, from New Zealand upon the understanding that then they should no longer interfere in any way whatever with the internal affairs of that colony. And, upon the whole, though not, he confessed, without having gone through a long period of hesitation, he, for one, had come to the conclusion that this was the best solution of that most difficult pro-
 1491 1492 habeas corpus. 1493 1494 1495 1496 1497
 MR. NEATE,  although feeling considerable distrust in his own opinion, must venture to say a few words against the argument of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman appeared to put this question too much on a comparison of the local burdens affecting England and Ireland. He could not see that this had anything to do with the question. If there was an Exchequer in England and Ireland, and an account had to be taken between the two, it might be said by the one to the other, "You don't pay enough, and we pay too much;" but the Exchequer in England had assumed a common duty towards the people of England and Ireland, and it discharged that duty towards the people of England in a manner in which it did not discharge it towards Ireland. As an inducement to those who had the control over the local taxation to deal liberally with the poor, the State paid one-half of the cost of medical officers in England; but they did not so act with regard to Ireland, whose poor were thus excluded from the benefit. He would not enter into the question of the adjustment of taxation between England and Ireland, but the Government ought to discharge its duty in the same way to the people in Ireland and England. At any rate, if these charges were transferred, it would be very easy to adjust the balance by imposing extra taxation upon Irish spirits.
 MR. CARDWELL  maintained that such was not the case with the Maori race, and was glad to find the noble Lord did not
 1513 "Colonel Greer tells me in a private letter that no thought of yielding possessed the Natives, but they fought with desperation, and when at length compelled by the bayonet to leave the trenches, in which they left more than a tenth of their number dead, it was strange to see them slowly climb up, and disdaining to run, walk away under a fire that mowed them down, some halting and firing as they retired, others, with heads bent down, stoically and proudly receiving their inevitable fate." 1514 1515 1516
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the whole course of the debate had been such as not only to call for grateful and cordial acknowledgments on the part of the Government for the spirit in which it had been conducted, but, what was of greater importance, he could not but think that it would have great weight and influence in the colony now endeavouring to enter on a new course of policy, in inducing the colonists to rely on their own resources for great exertions. It could not but be a cause of great encouragement to such a community when they saw their affairs occupying so large a portion of the attention of the House of Commons, and being discussed in the spirit and temper which had been displayed in the discussion of that evening. It was in such a spirit as he now alluded to that the hon. Member for Taunton introduced the question, and such, he ventured to say, was the spirit of every speaker who followed, without excepting even the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. He had had the pleasure and advantage of that hon. Member's acquaintance for twenty-five years, he knew
 1512
 MR. MACEVOY  rose to move a Resolution, to the effect that the Government should adopt that part of the Report of the Select Committee of 1858 which recommended them to take into consideration the claims of Ireland to a grant of half the charge for medical officers in Unions, with the view of providing for the same in future, as was now done in
 1517 1518
 MR. WHITESIDE  thought the right hon. Gentleman had not done justice to
 1523
 MR. BLAKE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, Whether, adverting to Mr. Ellis's Letter to the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works (dated 18th February, 1862), a Copy of which will be found at page 415 of the Report on Sewage (Metropolis), and the seventh clause of Mr. Ellis's Tender for the Sewage, which will be found at page 423 of the same Report, as well as Mr. Ellis's examination before the Select Committee of last Session, and in particular his answer to question 2,100, which will he found at page 85 of the same Report, it does not appear that Mr. Ellis's plan does not contemplate pumping the sewage to Hampstead, Highgate, Shooter's Hill, or any other point to which the Metropolitan Board of Works objected?
 MR. SPEAKER  asked who seconded the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member?
 MR. HENNESSY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. HENNESSY  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman, instead of appealing to the House, had appealed to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, whom he regarded as an enemy of Ireland, having on every occasion opposed every grant for Ireland, even in the hour of her direst misery and distress. He would rather the right hon. Gentleman had appealed to the Chief Secretary for Ireland, who, addressing himself to this very question, said, last Session—
 "If the Chancellor of the Exchequer chose to relieve the local taxation of Ireland to the extent of this £37,000 a year by paying half the cost of the dispensary officers, he for one should rejoice. After that assurance on his part he trusted the hon. Member would withdraw his Motion."—[3,  Hansard, 1522
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to draw the attention of the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland to an extraordinary statement of which he had only that day been made aware, and he thought it his duty to bring it under the notice of the Government without delay. It appeared that on Wednesday last a man named Patrick Doyle was tried in Kilkenny as a vagrant; and the account sent to him copied from one of the papers was as follows:—
 "Patrick Doyle was presented by the Grand Jury under an old Act of Parliament for being a vagrant. The prisoner traversed the presentment, and was found guilty of the charge. His Lordship sentenced him to find bail, himself in £20, and two sureties in £10 each, to be of good behaviour for seven years, and in default to undergo penal servitude for seven years." 1481
 MR. LOCKE  then rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to Theatres and other places of public amusement. The hon. Gentleman said he did not intend to make any lengthened statement upon that occasion. But he would inform the House that the Bill was to meet a state of things which had created great danger and alarm among Her Majesty's subjects. In many of the theatres there was no mode of egress in the event of fire, and one of the objects of the Bill was to correct that evil, and to place the buildings, which were used as theatres and other places of public amusement, on a proper footing in that respect. Another object of the measure was to settle a question which had arisen between theatres and music halls. He believed there would be no objection to the introduction of the Bill.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would not bring on the second reading until the first Wednesday after Easter.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I have also seen an account of the case in the papers to-day, and their statement is that the person so convicted was "an Irish gentleman who would do no work!"
 MR. ROEBUCK : After the distinct mode in which I have been spoken of by my hon. Friend, I hope the House will pardon me if I rise for the purpose of saying a few words upon this subject. I have no doubt that what I am going to say will give great offence to certain parties in this House, because I am about to attack and to expose a great sham. I have often found that a great sham has very ardent supporters. There is one peculiar quality which they assume to themselves, and that is a sort of exceptional right to virtue, and in addition to that, they always assume for themselves the right of abusing everybody who opposes them. Now the sham which I will endeavour to expose is this:—England for the greater part of three centuries past has been a great colonizing country, and in proportion to her colonization has she made every possible effort to extend her dominion, and power, and civilization. An outcry has already been raised by certain parties whom my hon. Friend has
 1486 1487 1488 1489 1490
 MR. MARSH  was sorry to believe there was only too much truth in the statement that arms and ammunition had been supplied to the Natives by speculators with a white skin. What manner of men these might have been he was unable to say, but at all events they were very bad men. He wished the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. A. Mills) could have been induced not to bring on his Motion just at the moment when affairs in the colony were confessedly in a critical state, and when the steamers probably bringing despatches of great importance had been telegraphed.
 1501 1502
 MR. LONGFIELD  hoped that the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not divide the House. The Bill contained some good as well as some bad provisions, and he would suggest that the necessary improvements could easily be made in Committee.
 MR. WESTERN  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to bring in any Measure founded on any of the Recommendations contained in the Report from the Select Committee on Registration of County Voters; and, if not, whether he proposes to introduce any Bill for the amelioration of the present system of County Registration? Since he had given this notice a Bill on the subject had been introduced by the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), but he hoped the Home Secretary would state the views of the Government.
 MR. SCULLY : For the purpose of putting myself in order, I shall take the liberty to move the adjournment of the House. I rise to protest against the doctrine that a person occupying the position of Chairman of Town Commissioners is to be precluded from signing a Requisition placed before him while acting in that capacity. The signature by no means implies his assent to the principles put forward in the document, and I submit that it is in the highest degree unfair to attack a resident magistrate, and to placard him all over the country as having outstepped his duty, for appending his signature in quite another capacity, and under the circumstances which I have described, to a document placed before him. When I saw the notice upon the paper originally it was couched in much stronger language,
 1477 ex parte Cries of Dublin Evening Mail, Laughter. 1478 Dublin Evening Mail
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the Government were perfectly aware of the anomaly to which his hon. Friend referred. There was, however, more than one way by which that anomaly might be rectified. One mode would be by laying a duty upon ships. He would, however, relieve his hon. Friend's fears on that point by assuring him that Her Majesty's Government had no intention of removing the anomaly in that form. As regarded any further information, he should ask his hon. Friend to exercise his self-denial until the financial statement should be made.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to explain. He had twice guarded himself against asking from the House any definitive expression of opinion on this subject. What he said was, that the hon. Gentleman had not made out his point, because if he referred to inequality of treatment, he must take not one, but all the items bearing upon the question. It was part of a large question, which had been expressly and unanimously referred by the House within a few days to the consideration of a Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as the hon. Gentleman had accepted the responsibility of the Motion about to be made by Sir Hervey Bruce in addition to his own, perhaps it would be preferable for him to discuss both Motions together. He would at once proceed to give reasons, upon which he relied with some confidence, why his hon. Friend should not ask either the Government or the House to give a definitive expression of opinion upon the subject at present, an opinion which, he thought, would be more prejudicial than advantageous to the object the hon. Gentleman had in view. The hon. Gentleman rested his Motion upon two grounds, one being the recommendation of the Committee of 1858, and the other being that, the grant from the Consolidated Fund which he sought was already given to England and Scotland. The hon. Gentleman forgot when he rested his case upon the recommendation of the Committee of 1858, that they expressly passed by the proposal now made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Hervey Bruce), having reference to the schoolmasters and schoolmistresses. And again, it was impossible to regard the recommendation of that Committee as being in any way conclusive upon the subject, for of the five Irish and two English Members forming that Committee, one Irish and two English Members dissented from the conclusion arrived at by the four Irish Members who composed the majority. A majority of one, under such circumstances, could scarcely command much weight, and the House would hardly be inclined to bow to such an authority. The hon. Gentleman further contended that the grant ought to be made to Ireland upon the simple ground that it had already been made to England and Scotland. But if that proposition was to be admitted, how could the hon. Gentleman resist the claim of England and Scotland to be placed on an equality with Ireland as to other grants from the Consolidated Fund in aid of local taxation, wherein the latter country had a decided advantage? He could assure the hon. Gentleman that if his proposition were established, England and Scotland would have the best of the bargain, and a very heavy burden would be imposed upon Ireland. The hon. Gentleman had referred to the fact that the cost of the Irish constabulary was paid out of the Consolidated Fund, but counted that as nothing, because England also received something from the
 1520 1521
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, the observations of the noble Lord the Member for
 1510
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that he was glad to receive this explanation. The principle to be laid down was that the colonists should be called upon to do what they could for their own defence; that, on the one hand, they should not be left to shift for themselves, but that when, on the other hand, we sent out troops, they were not to be entirely at the disposal of the Colonial Government. He thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) deserved the thanks of the House and of the country for informing the colonists that so long as English troops were employed, the Governor of the colony should have some voice in the conduct of the war. On any other principle of policy we might expect these wars to be carried on indefinitely, and it would then be impossible for the Chancellor of the Exchequer to produce a Budget on which he could rely; because the taxes of the country would practically be, to a great extent, at the disposal of those over whom this-House had no power whatever. If they gave the colonists the enormous power they had hitherto possessed, it might be depended on that they would exercise it. Had not the colonists felt that they had the immense force of British arms to rely on,
 1511
 COLONEL SYKES  expressed his approval of the proposal that the British troops stationed in New Zealand for the safety of the European community should be under the control of the representative of Her Majesty's Government and not under that of a local authority.
 MR. TITE  said, he was afraid that at
 1527 1528
 MR. TITE  said, in reply, that Mr. Ellis in his original proposal to the Metropolitan Board of Works, December 31, 1861, proposed to pump the sewage into covered reservoirs, which would be placed on Hampstead and Shooter's Hill, or such, other high lands as might be approved by the Metropolitan Board of Works. From these two commanding points he could irrigate on either side of the river a much greater area than would be required for the Metropolitan Sewage. These reservoirs at Hampstead and Highgate Mr. Ellis stated would perform another and a very essential service, in enabling the machinery, extending over an area of not less than 1,680 square miles, to be kept under the most perfect control from the point of supply. The true amount (not the rough estimate) would not exceed £3,500,000. The sewage was supposed to be lifted to Hampsted, 431 feet high, and to Shooter's Hill, 412 feet high. The distance from Barking outfall to Hampstead was about thirteen miles, and from Plumstead outfall to Shooter's Hill about four miles. It was not to be expected
 1480
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  hoped that the hon. Baronet would give explanation of the objects of the Bill, as hon. Members in his neighbourhood connected with Ireland appeared to be unacquainted with its purport.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to bring in a Bill this Session to carry out the Recommendations of the Commission for inquiring into the working of the Law relating to Letters Patent for Inventions?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that the attention of the Government had been drawn to the circumstance alluded to by the hon. Baronet. The gentleman referred to was Mr. Ffrench, a Roman Catholic, who had been many years a Stipendiary Magistrate, and who had always discharged his duties to the satisfaction of the Government and of those with whom he had been thrown in contact. The Government, however, pointed out the inconvenience that might result from the course he had adopted, and Mr. Ffrench was called upon for an explanation. He admitted that he had signed the requisition, but he expressed his great regret for having done so. He stated that he had only signed the requisition in his capacity as chairman of the Town Commissioners of Cashel. Mr. Ffrench, feeling that he had not acted rightly, had since resigned the latter office, and the Government had not thought fit to proceed further in the matter. He was sure that his hon. Friend if he had been in his (Sir Robert Peel's) position would, under the circumstances, have acted in the same spirit.
 MR. CAVE  thought the hon. Member for Salisbury had omitted one reason for the diminution of the Natives before our settlement among them, which was, that besides the other unwholesome articles of diet mentioned by him, they ate each other. He did not agree with what had been said about the inopportuneness of this Motion. His hon. Friend had not attempted to embarrass the Government, and he believed that the colonists would be benefited by plain speaking in the House. He wished, however, to clear himself from any participation in what had been said by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield, whose sentiments he was persuaded were shared by few Members of that House. The hon. and learned Member's bark was worse than his bite; for, although he began by preaching extermination and fire and sword—[Mr. ROEBUCK: No!] Well, if he did not directly preach extermination, he had left it to be inferred that that was the best treatment to follow with regard to man in his savage state. But he finished by suggesting the more salutary and humane remedy of Native cottages and allotments. He thought that this country incurred great responsibility in dealing with the Native races in its dependencies—whether black, brown, or white. It certainly was not what the hon. and learned Member called extending the happiness of mankind to begin by exterminating a race which had, at all events, the rights of first possession. If the House adopted the theory of extermination they would be going back to the example of the Spaniards, whose method of colonizing the New World obtained the execration of mankind. The hon. and learned Member talked of the Native races of New Zealand as wild animals, and said that
 1503 Cœlum non animam mutant qui trans mare currunt.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, If, by Article 115 of the General Consolidated Order of the Poor Law Board, dated 24th July, 1847, any Pauper suffering from Small Pox or other infectious disorders can insist upon leaving the workhouse, in opposition to the opinion of the doctor, upon giving to the master, or, during his absence or inability to act, to the matron, a reasonable notice of his or her wish to do so? He wished to ask this Question in consequence of two cases which had occurred in that part of the country with which he was connected. In one case a girl and her child had returned to her village and the child had died. In the other case a woman and her child were in the workhouse; the child died, and when it was going to be buried the mother claimed her clothes in order to go out. The master,
 1534
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, On what day he proposes to make his Financial Statement?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : This, Sir, is hardly a question which belongs to the legal Department of the Government. These cases are not to be dealt with upon abstract principles, but according to the information which reaches the Government as to each particular case. Generally speaking, the course would be that the Canadian Judges and courts should execute the law in their own territory, and it must be a rare and exceptional state of circumstances which would justify Her Majesty's Government in interfering with the Courts of Law in Canada.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, the House and the country must feel special obligations to the hon. Member for Horsham (Mr. Seymour Fitzgerald) for originating this debate. It would tend to dissipate the doubts of many in this country, and would reassure the loyal Canadians who desired to maintain their connection with England. From the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell) it would appear that the Government had come to the determination to stand by Canada if the necessity arose. He (Sir Frederic Smith) would be glad to know whether there was to be any, and what, limit to the assistance which we were prepared to afford her. It was the intention of the Government to fortify or strengthen the fortifications of Quebec, but to leave to the Canadians the defence of Montreal, Toronto, Kingston, and Richmond; but for these places we were to provide the armaments and ammunition. Before one penny was voted for the defences of Canada, they ought to know what was to be the cost to the taxpayers of England, of fortresses, armaments, ammunition, and of the British force which would aid the Canadians. Colonel Jervois said nothing of the force that would be necessary for the protec-
 1595
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  understood the Estimate to be £200,000—£50,000 this year, and £150,000 next year; but
 1596
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  differed from that idea, unless it was by throwing up earthworks; and if that were so, he was right in saying that £50,000 was to be expended chiefly on earthworks. But what was wanted was a determined resolution as to the line they meant to take. If they meant to abandon the Canadas, let them say so and do so. But the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) said they intended to take the opposite course. He (Sir Frederic Smith) applauded that. He thought they were bound in honour to defend the Canadas, and that it would be degrading to England not to do so. But while he said that, he also said, "Let us have an Estimate in full of the costs we are to incur." Members of this House and the country would then know what they were about to do. There was no reason why the armament should not commence at once. The Government ought to take money for that purpose in the present year, but he did not find anything of the sort in the Estimates. If they were going to take ten years about it, he should like to know what chance the Canadas had of new ordnance in time to be of use. It was said that all they had now were of the very oldest construction, and a few rounds would blow every gun-carriage to pieces. Again, he should like to have some idea of the force
 1597
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he thought they had all reason to be thankful to his hon. Friend the Member for Horsham (Mr. S. Fitzgerald) for having brought this subject under their consideration. No thoughtful man could have any doubt as to the great importance of the question. His hon. Friend had moreover brought it forward in a most moderate and temperate speech. He would follow the example of his hon. Friend, and avoid entering into the question between the Confederates and the United States. What they had now to consider was the rela-
 1603 The Times 1604 "Of the whole British Colonial Empire, British North America occupies a prominent place. It contains 4,000,000 square miles, and occupies one-third of the American Continent. It is larger than all Europe or the Federal and Confederate States together. Its population is about 4,000,000. The tonnage of its shipping enables it to rank seventh among the nations of the earth, and in the last decade its trade has more than quadrupled. Its exports and imports reach £27,000,000 a year, and the agricultural produce amounts to not less than £30,000,000 per annum. Its total revenues during the past year of 1864 are estimated at £3,000,000, and the expenses at £2,700,000. Its greatest length from the Atlantic frontier of Nova Scotia to the Pacific Ocean at Vancouver's Island is 3,000 miles, and its greatest breadth 1,600 miles." 1605
 THE O'DONDGHUE  thought that the hon. Member for the King's County was entitled to much credit for affording to the hon. Member for North Warwickshire an opportunity to express his regret for what had taken place, and to promise to be more careful in future. If the hon. Member had not thought fit to avail himself of the opportunity, that was his own fault. Having had considerable opportunities of watching the hon. Member, he had watched his movements with peculiar interest, and yet he had never been able to decide, notwithstanding the extreme gravity of the hon. Member's demeanour, whether he really believed the stories he told about the Jesuits or about the convents, when making his ridiculous attacks on that system. If the hon. Member did, then his case was really alarming; but he had often thought that the hon. Member would, after some of his gravest speeches, rush into some lonely place, and enjoy a hearty laugh. What was the position of the hon. Member at the end of so many years during which he had been telling the House that inquiry was his object, and that his great attempt was to see with his own eyes those locks, bolts, and bars behind which he had tried to persuade people, if not by assertion, at least by insinuation, that some hapless ladies were confined? The hon. Member asked for a mode of inquiry which he knew he could not obtain, and refused that mode of inquiry which he could obtain, and which he ought to have accepted if he were sincere, and if the welfare of the inmates of convents was really the object he had in view. The House refused to grant the hon. Member his Committee for sufficient reasons. One was that there was no ground for a Committee; and the other was that the appointment of a Committee and its proceedings would only tend to perpetuate religious discords, which it was the interest and wish of the House to terminate. The Bishop of Birmingham had not been treated with ordinary courtesy by the hon. Member. Dr.
 1643
 LORD ELCHO  said, they had had of late years many important questions discussed in that House—Crimean and other wars; but that which involved the question of war between this country and America put all other subjects into the shade. He believed he need hardly say how thoroughly he agreed with every word that had been spoken in that debate as to the necessity of avoiding all allusion which could create unnecessary irritation between this country and the United States of America. He was glad to find that the hon. Gentleman who introduced the subject had set an example of moderation which had been followed by the subsequent speakers. He had heard the discussion which had taken place in another place on the subject, and he confessed he did not like what he heard there, nor did he like what had been stated in the Report of Colonel Jervois with respect to the defences of Canada. He knew the intentions of the Government, but his first impression was not favourable towards them; and after listening attentively to what had been said in that House, he thought the speech which had most practical common sense in it, and was most likely to command the attention of practical Englishmen, such as those assembled there, was the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe). He joined with all that had been said by Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench as to the duties of the mother country towards Canada, and if Canada were anxious to stand by England it was the duty of England to support that colony. The only question between his right hon. Friend and the Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench appeared to be as to the best mode of doing that. They must not allow America to choose her own ground. He thought it would be impossible to defend Canada in the way suggested by Government. Did any one believe, even supposing these fortifications were erected, unless they had a sufficient number of men to man them, and the population of Canada were thoroughly armed, they would be of any avail? This country could only send a small nucleus of men over there. How did they propose to man the fortifications? The gallant officer, who had been sent over to Canada to report, said—
 "On the other hand, if the works now recommended be constructed, the vital points of the
 1606
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, in reply, that neither master, matron, nor medical officer, had power to detain any person in the workhouse against his will, due notice being given of the intention of such inmate to depart. All that they could do was to warn the persons who wished to leave, and who were in the condition referred to, of the extreme danger of such proceeding to themselves and others, and that they were liable to be indicted for a misdemeanor. That warning had been given, he believed, in both the cases referred to.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I wish, Sir, to put the Question of which I have given notice in a different form from that which I at first intended. I wish to ask Mr. Attorney General, with respect to all the persons who are now in Canada waiting the issue of the Question, Whether they are to be surrendered or not; whether, before they are surrendered under the Extradition Treaty, the legal grounds upon which that surrender is based will be first submitted to the Government at home, and the opinion of the Law Officers taken upon the subject, or whether the discretion of acting upon the Extradition Treaty will be left to the Canadian Executive alone?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I have no doubt great advantages have arisen in recent times from the practice which has grown up of reporting to the public outside the debates which pass in this House; but, on the other hand, it is impossible to listen to such a debate as this without feeling that the practice has its drawbacks too. On speaker after another has got up and protested that he has not the faintest idea of any possible danger of a rupture with the United States; but one cannot
 1610 the Alabama 1611 Lori Robert Cecil 1612 1613 Hansard,
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the Government had adopted what appeared to him to be a most extraordinary course. They might have come to the House, and, as in time of war, asked for a Vote for the amount which they considered necessary for the defence of Canada, simply saying that the affairs of the province demanded the outlay, and taking, of course, the responsibility which would naturally attend such a demand. If the Government possessed the entire confidence of the House the money might have been voted without any demur, and hon. Members opposite would have had another opportunity of exhibiting that willingness to support the Government in all kinds of expenditure which they had latterly continually displayed, and of inveighing against a small
 1607 1608 1609
 MR. LEFROY  said, he wished to ask, If any steps have been taken during the recess to ascertain, through the Chaplains' Quarterly Returns, how far the Chaplains have been able to comply with the Admiralty Instructions directing clerical visits to be made to transports and small vessels of war not entitled to bear Chaplains; if the revised edition of the Chaplains' Instructions mentioned last Session has been issued; and if there is any objection to the annual publication of a Précis of the Chaplains' Quarterly Returns?
 MR. LAYARD  said, that as far as he was aware, the Question of his hon. Friend was put under a misapprehension. He (Mr. Layard) was not aware that Captain Beale was surrendered by the colonial authorities to the United States Government. On the contrary, it was stated in the newspapers of the United States that Captain Beale was arrested in the State of New York. But no information has been received upon the subject, either at the Foreign Office or the Colonial Office.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I do not think that Her Majesty's Government, after placing the Report of Colonel Jervois upon the table, could have expected that the subject of the defence of Canada would be unnoticed by the House of Commons; and it could not have been brought forward to-night in a manner more distinguished for moderation, clearness, and accuracy than it has been by my hon. Friend. I am sorry that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. W. E. Forster) should have considered that that statement favourably contrasted with an other expression of opinion which he referred to as having been made in another
 1571 Trent, 1572 1573 1574 1575 1576 We 1577 1578
 MR. NEWDEGATE  rose to reply, but was stopped by cries of "Order."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that while in Warwickshire on last Friday evening he received a note from the hon. Member for the King's County stating that he intended on that afternoon to call the attention of the House to statements made in the letter written by himself (Mr. Newdegate) in reply to one from Dr. Ullathorne which had been published; but, as it was impossible for him then to be present on that afternoon in his place, the matter stood over till the present occasion. He was glad the House had now afforded the hon. Member for the King's County the opportunity of stating the offence he fancied had been committed. In reply to his Question he must first refer to the letter of Dr. Ullathorne. Dr. Ullathorne claimed to be a bishop of the Roman Catholic Church exercising jurisdiction in Warwickshire; he called himself Bishop of Birminghan, thereby offending against the Ecclesiastical Titles Act. He (Mr. Newedgate) must be excused for not having addresed Dr. Ullathorne by an illegal title, which did not belong to him. Dr. Ullathorne had thought fit in his letter to deny, in the most explicit terms, statements which he (Mr. Newde-gate) had made in bringing forward his Motion for an inquiry respecting monasteries and convents. He did not choose that Dr. Ullathorne, as a resident in Birmingham, should circulate allegations of falsehood against him in the district which he had the honour to represent, he had therefore replied in the letter from which the hon. Member for the King's County had read an extract. He extremely regretted that, in the copy of the letter from which the hon. Member had quoted, there was an error which was an error of the copyist. The passage as it ought to stand was in the following terms:—
 "When I stated these facts as connected with this convent in the debate in 1853 the facts were
 1639 Hansard's "Not only was it the fact that in the convents of England a lady having once taken the veil was prevented from seeing her friends unless in the presence of the Superior or lady abbess. [Sir GEORGE BOWYER: No, no!] The hon. and learned Gentleman might cry 'No, no;' but no amount of contradiction could alter a fact of which he (Mr. C. Berkeley) had personal cognizance. It had happened to himself, in his own person, to be refused an interview, except under such circumstances as he was stating. He had been refused permission to see his nearest and dearest relative in a convent, unless in presence of the Superioress. That was not alone the case with ladies who had taken the veil, but also with postulants, or persons who took the white veil before taking the black."—[3  Hansard, "Hon. Gentlemen opposite might dissent from that opinion; the power of denial in some hon. Gentlemen was most marvellous; and the only way in which he could account for it was by supposing that Dr. Wiseman was correct when he stated in a recent number of the  Dublin Review Hansard, 1640 1641 permissu supe-riorum, 1642
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was of importance in discussions of this kind that there should be an agreement as to the object in view. Now it was evident that the great majority of the House did not agree with the views expressed by the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White). He understood the hon. Member to argue that the retention of British North America depended on a calculation of figures and on a question of profit and loss. Her Majesty's Government, on the other hand, and the great majority of that House, regarded the retention of those colonies as a matter of duty which a great country like this was bound to perform, provided only that those colonies were willing to remain dependent on the Crown of England, and to play a manly part in their own defence. Knowing, then, by more satisfactory evidence than had been obtained for many years, that the colonies of British North America desired to remain attached to the Crown of Great Bri-
 1591 1592 1593 1594
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the hon. Member for Horsham concluded his speech by saying that if ever a disaster overtook us from the want of proper energy and foresight on the part of the Government, he should feel the utmost satisfaction from the reflection that he had at least given early notice of the danger. But if such a contingency did ever arise it would be a still more natural source of satisfaction to any person, whether a subject of the Queen, or a citizen of the United States, to be able to say that not a syllable had fallen from him which could have the remotest tendency to bring about the great
 1566 1567 Alabama, 1568 1569 1570
 MR. CARDWELL  explained that he did not say that £150,000 would be spent next year, but that the works would be almost completed next year, and that the larger part of the expenditure would take place in that period.
 MR. CARDWELL : I said the preparations for permanent works would of themselves constitute a temporary defence.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House, all the Papers relating to the extradition from the Canadian territory of Captain Beale, an officer in the service of the Confederate States?
 MR. CHILDERS  replied that the information given in the Chaplains' Quarterly Returns would not enable him to state to what extent the Admiralty Instructions with respect to clerical visits to transports and small vessels had been complied with. With regard to the second point, no revised edition of Instructions had been issued, and no promise to that effect had been given; but the whole question of the Returns made by, or relating to, the Chaplains was now under consideration. It was considered expedient that for the future fuller statistical accounts of the educational condition of the seamen should be furnished; and that the religious work of the Chaplains should rather be reported at inspection than in the shape of quarterly Returns; but the Admiralty had not yet come to a final decision as to the exact forms to be employed.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I am not sure that I should have addressed the House on this occasion but for the observations which have been made by the noble Lord. I think he has been perhaps a little more frank in his declarations on this occasion, and in pointing out the real thing which I suspect is passing in his mind, and in the minds of very many Members of the House who have made no statement of their own opinions during this debate. I hope the debate will be useful, although I am obliged to say, while I admit the importance of the question that has been brought before us, that I think it is one of some delicacy. That it is important is clear, because it
 1614 1615 1616 1617 1618 1619 "Satan still some mischief finds For idle hands to do." 1620 1621 Trent. 1622 1623 Alabama. 1624 Alabamas Alabama Alabama 1625 Alabama, Alabama George Griswold, 1626 un- 1627 1628 A laugh. 1629 1630 1631 1632 The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire 1633
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it would be contrary to Order to read a report of a speech made in the House of Lords during the present Session.
 MR. HENNESSY,  who had given notice "to ask the hon. Member for North Warwickshire a question with reference to the correspondence he has published relating to his recent Motion," said, that since the debate which had taken place upon his (Mr. Newdegate's) Motion relating to the inspection of convents, the hon. Gentleman had published in  The Times "The direct action of the Romish hierarchy through or upon the Roman Catholic Members of the House had been obvious to every Member taking an interest in such questions as were debated" "When I stated these facts, as connected with this convent, the facts were denied by some Roman Catholic Members in the House, but the impression produced by the statement of them, taken together with the other facts at that time alleged, could have had little weight with the House, for the majority seemed to think, with the late Mr. Drummond, that the power of denial on the part of some Roman Catholic Members of the House on these subjects was so wonderful that the House decided to consider a measure for testing these denials by the establishment of an inspection of convents." 1638
 MR. ROEBUCK : Sir, I wish to put a Question to the Vice President of the Board of Trade which may have the effect
 1538 The Times "Sir, my attention has just been called to a paragraph in your paper of yesterday headed 'Owl's Light,' stating that the right hon. William Hutt had appointed me to be Secretary of Chelsea Hospital. This statement is incorrect for two simple reasons:—l, it would be a direct violation of Her Gracious Majesty's Warrant; and 2, having been an Indian officer all my life, I can know nothing about the arrangements of the British army, and must therefore be obviously disqualified for an appointment requiring an intimate knowledge of the Pension Warrant. I must beg the favour of an immediate contradiction to a statement so greatly reflecting on my brother's integrity, and likely to do me injury. "Whitehall, March 6—The Queen has been pleased to constitute and appoint Major General George Hutt, C B.,to be Secretary and Registrar to the Commissioners for the Government of the Royal Hospital at Chelsea, in the room of Alexander James Moorhead, Esq., resigned."
 ME. LOWE : Sir, I should like to take
 1579 1580 1581 matériel, 1582 Quam utinam vinctos mihi traderet, 1583 arx imperii, 1584 1585
 MR. WALPOLE  said, as he understood that the Government were likely to take into consideration the subject of the Petition presented by him from the Trustees of the British Museum, he thought it would be for the convenience of the House if he were to postpone the Motion on that subject of which he had given notice.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department (with reference to certain Official Correspondence as to the Irish nun Miss Mary Ryan, called Sister Theresa), Whether it is intended on the part of the Government to require that lady to be delivered up by the Belgian authorities, and to be removed from the "very well conducted Asylum at Bruges, where she is treated with great kindness and consideration;" as stated by Lord Howard de Walden, Mr. Consul Curry, and Mr. Commissioner Wilkes; and further to require that, "if she is still insane when she arrives in this country, she must be taken before a Magistrate and dealt with as a Pauper Lunatic," as stated in a communication from the Secretary of State for the Home Department to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; whether all British and Irish subjects, who are insane, must be dealt with as Pauper Lunatics, if their relatives and friends cannot take proper care of them in these countries, though able and willing to do so in a good foreign asylum; and whether he will lay before this House the case as to Miss Mary Ryan, submitted by his desire, in the month of October last, to the Attorney and Solicitor Generals for England, along with their opinion on it. The hon. Gentleman said he would more particularly ask, whether there is any Treaty of Extradition between this country and Belgium, that applies to lunatics as well as to criminals; and, if so, whether the Home Secretary intends to enforce it at the instance of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley), and the Protestant Alliance?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the exact position of the matter was this. The Government were now waiting the result of an inquiry on the part of the Trustees of the British Museum with respect to certain questions of internal arrangement in any new building
 1535
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In consequence of the time at which Easter fells this year, we find, that, although it might be possible to make the Financial Statement before Easter, it would not be possible for us to make any progress in any matters to which it might refer; and, therefore, we have thought that we should best consult the convenience of the House by deferring it until the first convenient day after Easter. But as the House usually resents the bringing forward of any important question on the very first day of the re-assembling after the Easter holydays, we have considered it desirable to select a subsequent day, which will probably be Thursday, the 27th of April.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : I will only say that the noble Earl made a speech somewhere—but I will not say where— and that he took occasion of the despatch which had been brought forward to-night being laid on the table, to say that he considered that the publication of that despatch showed very great danger — a danger arising from the hostile feelings of the American people towards this country; and he went on to say he considered that danger arose from symptoms of menace from the United States, and that the danger was great, urgent, and absolutely impending upon us. Well, when eminent statesmen in the position of Lord Derby come forward and express their fears in such language as this, can we wonder that they are felt throughout the country? I thank the hon. Gentleman for what he has said to-night, and I hope from its being known that he is in relation with that statesman, that the speech he made to night will, to some extent, undo the harm in this country and in America which the remarks of the noble Lord were so likely to cause. The fact of such a debate as this gives us a right to call upon the Government for the fullest explanation. Let them tell us if there are any despatches or facts of which we are not at present aware, which would warrant the language that had been so used else-
 1558 The Times 1559 "I am, therefore, with great regret instructed to give this formal notice to your Lordship, that, in conformity with the treaty reservation of the right, at the expiration of six months from the date of this note the United States will deem themselves at liberty to increase the naval armament upon the Lakes, if, in their judgment, the condition of affairs in that quarter shall then require it." "In taking this step I am desired to assure your Lordship that it is resorted to only as an indispensable measure to the national defence, and, so far from being in a spirit of hostility, that it springs from a wish no less earnest than heretofore to preserve the most friendly relations with Great Britain. I take pleasure in adding that it is the fixed purpose of my Government in every case to direct its energies to the prevention of all attempts to invade the British territory, whether by way of retaliation or otherwise." 1560 Alabama 1561 "Upon these principles of law and these assumptions of fact resting upon the evidence in the case, I am instructed to say that my Government must continue to insist that Great Britain has made itself responsible for the damages which the peaceful law-abiding citizens of the United States sustain by the depredations of the vessel called the  Alabama. 1562 Sea Bride Alabama, 1563 1564 1565
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Sir, I do not rise in any way to deprecate the discussion which has been raised, and still less do I wish to object to the tone in which the hon. Member for Horsham has introduced the subject to the attention of the House. I only wish that the same tone may be generally exhibited in the course of the debate. My reason for troubling the House with any remarks is, that I wish to state how earnestly I desire, when a reply is given, that that reply should be most full and most frank; and that not merely as regards any question of duty we may owe to Canada or that Canada may owe to us, but as affecting the relations between the United States and Canada,
 1556 1557
 MR. WATKIN  said, that having, like the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), visited Canada not once but frequently, he felt unable to corroborate the description given of Quebec; nor could he agree as to what had been said of other places. The fortifications of Quebec were not those of the days of Wolfe; they had been systematically enlarged and strengthened. Quebec, naturally a position of enormous strength, was now most efficiently fortified, and so far from the nature of the surrounding country exposing it to attack, that country presented features enabling the speedy and easy construction of additional works rendering the fortress impregnable. In fact, it might easily be made the strongest work upon the continent. Nor was it fair to say, as the gallant Member opposite had declared, that the guns were all antiquated and the gun-carriages rotten. It was true that many of the guns were old, but newer ordnance had been supplied; there were abundant stores of shot, shell, and rockets, and a considerable number of Armstrong guns had been received at the citadel very recently. Canada could be made capable of defence, without difficulty, though, of course, not without cost. No one would contend that the defence of Canada, if an Imperial duty, was simply an Imperial liability. Every one would admit that the colony should contribute, both in time of peace and of war, its fair share of the burden. Independence and defence were co-existent ideas, and Canada, desiring to be free of foreign control, should, and he hoped would, be ready to defray her just and honest share of the burden. He took this as admitted on all hands and on both sides of the Atlantic. His objection, then, to the proposal of the Government was that it was not worthy of that emergency which alone could justify the policy of the fortification of a frontier. But the question really before the House was not one of the extent of territory to defend, but plainly this — was this House, was the country ready to abandon—to alienate for ever from the British Crown, the vast expanse of territory lying between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans? There was no half-way house between "cutting the painter," as one or two hon. Gentlemen near him now and then suggested, in conversation only, as regarded Canada, and severing all connection, now and for ever, with Prince Edward's Island, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, on the
 1599 "The great and practical value of the British North American provinces and possessions is seldom appreciated. Stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, they contain an area of at least 3,478,380 square miles—more than is owned by the United States and not much less than the whole of Europe, with its family of nations." "The climate and soil of these provinces and possessions, seemingly less indulgent than those of tropical regions, are precisely those by which the skill, energy, and virtues of the human race are best developed. Nature there demands thought and labour from man as conditions of his existence, and yields abundant rewards to a wise industry." 1600 1601 1602
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, it is not intended to enforce any law upon the subject, at the suggestion of the hon. Member for Forth Warwickshire, or of the hon. Member for Peterborough, or of the Protestant Alliance. But I take it to be clear that it is illegal to remove by force any lunatic from our shores and de-
 1536
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON : The hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) had deprecated anything being said which might give umbrage to the people of the United States. That expression of feeling was joined in by hon. Members on that (the Opposition) Bide of the House. He gathered from the remarks of the hon. Member that he would regard any measure for the defence of Canada as something partaking of an affront to the United States. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) in his usually able and lucid manner, had now put forth the new doctrine that we should leave Canada absolutely undefended for fear of a disaster to our arms. Now, he ventured to think that if the House gave any encouragement to such notions, a painful chill would be cast on the warm sentiments of loyalty so recently expressed by the nascent British Confederation in North America. Such an expression would come but ill after the hearty approval given by the Government to the aspirations of these provinces; and what would be thought throughout the world, if we were to declare that in the event of danger to these colonies, through no fault of theirs, but owing merely to their connection with the mother country, they were to be left absolutely at the mercy of America? He ventured to think that the suggestion of leaving Canada to take care of itself, however ingenious, was not likely to find much favour in the House. The right hon. Gentleman endeavoured to throw ridicule upon the Report and recommendations of Colonel Jervois, and it had been asked by the right hon. Gentleman, what would be the use of shutting up our troops in fortifications, when the Americans, with their improved ordnance, would batter those fortifications to ruins, and capture the troops. But surely the right hon. Gentleman did not expect the House to suppose that the fortifications to be erected in Canada would be of obsolete form, exposing the troops within them to the mercy of the blockading and bombarding force. Those fortifications, of course, would be constructed in accordance with all the improved appliances known to modern warfare, and with a view to the purpose of all fortifications—that of enabling a small force to compete with a large one. Whether in systems of defence such as
 1586 1587 coup de main, 1588 s. 1589 Encyclopedia Britannica "James Monroe succeeded Madison in the Presidency, and retained it eight years (1817 to 1825). Towards the close of his administration (1823), in compliance with the suggestion of his Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams, he introduced into his Message to Congress—adverting to the purpose of the European allies of Spain to assist her in subduing her revolted colonies in Central and South America—the assertion of a principle in which the rights and interests of the United States are involved, that the American continents, by the free and independent position which they have assumed and maintained, are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European Power. …With the existing colonies or dependencies of any European Power,' continues the Message, we have not interfered, and shall not interfere. But with the Governments who have declared their independence and maintained it, and whose independence we have, on great consideration and on just principles, acknowledged, we could not view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling in any other manner their destiny by any European Power, in any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition towards the United States.'" "This wise Government, in grave, but determined language, and with that reasonable but deliberate tone which becomes true courage, proclaims the principles of her policy, and makes known the cases in which the care of her own safety will compel her to take up arms for the defence of other States. I have already observed its coincidence with the declarations of England, which indeed is perfect, if allowance be made for the deeper or at least more immediate interest in the independence of South America which near neighbourhood gives to the United States. This coincidence of the two great English commonwealths— for so I delight to call them, and heartily pray that they may be for ever united in the cause of justice and liberty—cannot be contemplated without the utmost pleasure by every enlightened citizen of the earth." 1590
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  rose to call the attention of the House to the
 1540 1541 1542 1543 "What the insurgent party seemed chiefly to favour was a postponement of the question of separation, upon which the war is waged, and a mutual direction of the efforts of the Government, as well as those of the insurgents, to some extrinsic policy or scheme for a season, during which passions might he expected to subside, and the armies be reduced, and trade and intercourse between people of both sections be resumed. It was suggested by them that through such postponement we might now have immediate peace, with some not very certain prospect of an ultimate satisfactory adjustment of political relations between the Government and the States, section or people, now engaged in conflict with it." 1544 1545 "The question appears to be this—whether the British force now in Canada should be withdrawn in order to avoid the risk of its defeat, or whether the necessary measures shall be taken to enable that force to be of use in defence of the colonies." 1546 Alabama 1547 "I pointed out to your Lordship, in my Report dated February, 1864, as the result of my inspection in Canada, that the construction of certain works of fortification at Montreal and Quebec was essential to enable the British troops and local forces to resist an invasion by the Americans with any prospect of success." 1548 1549 1550 1551 Trent; 1552 1553 "You may not, perhaps, be aware that the Federal Government are now actively but quietly preparing for a conflict with England, should such unhappily take place, and which the nation are looking forward to." "All this," continued the writer, referring to the Reciprocity Treaty, "is well known, but the operations of the American navy with regard to the American Lakes are not well known, nor their course of conduct even in London itself. They are these:—An American firm of boat builders in London have received an order from the Federal Government for the construction of forty steam launches or gunboats, to be forty-five feet in length, fifteen feet deep, on the double-screw principle, with high-pressure engines, to carry one gun each, and to move in a small draught of water. It is unnecessary to point out how mischievous such gunboats may be. They will be made to sail with a light draught of water, with great speed, and will be capable of acting vigorously in shallows and creeks. Already five of these formidable wasps, as they are called, have arrived out in the States, and the remainder are to follow when they are completed. If my information be correct, and I have no doubt it is, they are packed in cases in London, and will arrive here in such a condition as to render it a matter of no difficulty to transfer them by means of a double truck to Buffalo." 1554 1555
 MR. HUTT : Sir, I will endeavour to answer the Question of my hon. and learned Friend; but first I would ask the indulgence of the House for a few moments while making that explanation, and I only regret the absence of the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North), because I know he takes a great interest in this matter. The letter to which my hon. and learned Friend has referred is a fraud, and the signature of General Hutt, ostensibly attached to it, is a forgery. This is the work of some persons—I must not, I suppose, call them scoundrels, because it is possible that they may be employed in the public service. No doubt, therefore, they are gentlemen; but I may say this—I think that they pursue a most dishonest purpose by means most disloyal and dishonest. The original letter to which my hon. and learned Friend refers is now in my possession, by the courtesy of the Editor of  The Times 1539 Gazette
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, however long this discussion may have been, I, for one, cannot regret that it has taken place; for by the majority of Members in this House two opinions have been expressed which cannot fail to be useful in the quarters to which they have been addressed. The first opinion is that which has been peculiarly dwelt upon by the hon. Member who has just sat down— namely, the most earnest desire that the most friendly relations should be maintained between Great Britain and the United States of America; and next, the opinion that we should maintain the connection which exists between this country and our provinces on the North American continent so long as the people of those provinces are desirous of maintaining their connection with the mother country. The hon. Member who has just spoken (Mr. Bright) has made what in one respect may appear a paradoxical, but what, I think, as human nature is constituted, was a very conciliatory speech towards the United States: for though the hon. Member reviewed a long course of events to prove that the United States have been most grievously ill-treated by this country—I do not agree with him in any one of these points—it is no doubt a part of human
 1634 Trent 1635 1636 1637
 MR. CHEETHAM  contended that the Bill was not identical with that thrown out last Session, which was an independent line, and did not connect the Great Eastern on the one hand and the Lancashire and Yorkshire on the other, as was proposed by the present Bill. Instead of being in the hands of three companies, like the scheme of last Session, it would be only one main line of 113 miles in length, and bringing the large district served by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway into direct communication with the Eastern Counties. The capital of these two companies amounted to £40,000,000, and their lines extended over 1,000 miles. There was, therefore, every assurance that the line would be economically made and carefully conducted. How was coal obtained at present in the eastern counties? It had to come by the Great Northern to Peterborough, and the expense sometimes prevented it from being laid down in the districts of the Eastern Counties Railway. The eastern part of London was without any great coal depot in connection with the coal brought by railway. From an official account of the quantity of coal brought to London, it appeared that in 1854 the proportion brought by sea was 78 per cent, and by rail 22 per cent. But in 1864 the supply brought by sea was only 58 per cent, while that brought by railway had increased to 42 per cent. The conveyance of coal by railway was thus seen to be steadily increasing, and it was of the greatest importance that this necessary of life should be conveyed as economically as possible to the 600,000 persons in the east of London, whose dwellings surrounded the London station of the Eastern Counties Railway. In 1854 the total quantity of coals brought into London was 4,344,000 tons, and in 1855, it was 5,655,000 tons. He believed that the reduction in the price of fuel alone would justify the House in passing this Bill. The noble Lord admitted that he appeared before the House as the advocate of the Great Northern Railway. When he (Mr. Cheetham) last had the honour of a seat in Parliament, he promoted the Bill giving the Great Northern an access into Lancashire. It was opposed by the North Western on the ground of injury to their traffic and the value of their property. But what had been the result? Parliament had granted the opening of the communication to the Great Northern, yet the traffic of the North
 1655
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, that like the hon. Member for Birmingham, he had nothing to do with the Great Northern or the Great Eastern, but he appeared there on behalf of a very large body of people who happened to be concerned in the navigation of the river Trent, with which, if this Bill passed, it would seriously interfere. The navigation above Gainsborough was carried on by small vessels, but below the town large foreign vessels came in, and it had been proved that the existence of a bridge, which by this Bill it was proposed to make, would totally put an end to the navigation of the Trent. He would appeal to the President of the Board of Trade upon this subject, to whom the people would look for the preservation of the navigation of the rivers of England. It might be said that these were points for the Committee to decide; but, unless a clear case of public necessity could be shown by any line, the promoters had no right to subject those
 1659
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  contended that the Bill ought to be read a second time, and that the question ought not to be decided on the floor of the House. There were not nine men out of ten in the House who knew anything about it. He strongly objected to a monopoly of a large and important district being granted to an existing company. The real question at issue was, whether a railway company which had expended £20,000,000 —the Great Eastern—should be allowed to establish a connection with another company which had expended £6,000,000. As to the Board of the Great Eastern Company, though their Bill had been rejected last year, they thought it due not only to their shareholders, but to the public to bring it in again in its altered form. The question really was one between railway directors, and was whether twenty millions of capital and the people of the Lancashire and Yorkshire districts were to be kept back by another company, which kept the Great Eastern out.
 MR. DAMER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If Captain Coles's Cupola has been tested by firing at it with any heavier guns than those used in the experiments —namely, 40-pounder Armstrong —on board the  Trusty; 1662
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he would reply to the Question of the hon. Member. It had been stated a few days ago to the War Office by certain Volunteer officers that officers of the militia were exempted from serving on juries, and that Volunteer officers should have the same advantage. Lord De Grey thereupon said that inquiry should be made into the facts, and if it were found that militia officers were really exempted from serving on juries, representations on the subject should be made to the Home Office. It was not, however, clear that militia officers were so exempted, but the matter was under consideration.
 MR. CHARLES POPSTER  said, he regretted that it was his duty, as Chairman of the Committee on Public Petitions, to acquaint the House that a gross abuse of the right of petition and an undoubted breach of the privileges of the House had, he feared, been committed in connection with some of the petitions which had been presented in support of the Motion about to be made by the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly). The Committee, at its meeting yesterday, felt itself bound to present a Report, which would be in the hands of Members tomorrow. In reporting to the House the number of names appended to these petitions, they thought there was strong ground for suspecting that many of the signatures were fictitious, and that some of the persons whose names were attached to the petitions had not really signed them. It would be the duty of the Committee, at its meeting on Thursday next, to continue their examination of the petitions which had since been presented, and should they then be of opinion that the matter was one calling for further notice on the part of the House, they would feel it right to make a Special Report on the subject.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  thought his hon. and learned Friend (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) had acted wisely in protesting at the outset of his statement that he should avoid all questions of policy, for if the questions of policy connected with this subject were taken into consideration there could be but one opinion—that it was impolitic to maintain in India a number of nominal Sovereigns and nominal Courts—Sovereigns who had no power and to whom no power could be safely intrusted—who had only this attribute of sovereignty that they were above all law, and could commit almost any wrong with impunity. The existence of these mock courts was nothing but unmixed evil to the people of India, their abolition would inflict no harm on a single human being, and would confer an immense benefit upon the people of India and upon ourselves. The question, then, came to this, where we bound to perpetuate these acknowledged evils for all time? Certainly very strong arguments would be needed to bring the House to a conclusion so disastrous to our Government in India. The discussion though it had travelled over a wide field, might be compressed within comparatively narrow bounds. It was asserted by those who said that we ought to perpetuate these evils for all time that we were bound to do so by the Treaty of 1801. He contended that the terms of that treaty warranted no such construction—next, that if we were to travel beyond the terms of that treaty to ascertain what the intentions of the parties to it were, it would be seen that they were diametrically opposed to the representation which the hon. and learned Gentleman had given of them; and, further than that, that the treaty was expressly framed for the purpose of excluding the possibility of any such interpretation. But, before coming to the terms of the treaty, perhaps it would be as well to cast a glance at the state of the Carnatic at the time. The hon. and
 1698 consuetudo "The Nawab of the Carnatic was originally nothing more than an officer of the Soubadar of the Deccan, appointed and removed at the pleasure of his superior. That he had been rendered independent of the Soubadar was not even his own act, it was the work of the English; he owed everything to their protection; he was their creature, not their equal." "After the final overthrow of the French in the Carnatic (1763), they not only now beheld the man whose interest they had espoused in the possession of the Government of the country, but they beheld him dependent on themselves, and the whole kingdom of the Carnatic subject to their absolute will. It was the grand object of deliberation, and the grand practical difficulty to settle in what proportion the powers and advantages should be divided between the nominal Sovereign and the real one. The English were not disposed to forget that upon them the whole burden of the war had devolved, that they alone had conquered and gained the country, that the assistance of Mohammed Ali had been of little, or rather of no importance, and that even now he possessed not resources and talent sufficient to hold the Government in his hands unless they continued to support him." 1699 "The impression made on the mind of the Governor General by this conduct of the Nabob and his officers was such that the Governor General repeatedly declared that if the Nabob had been decidedly in league with the enemy, he could not have adopted measures more calculated to embarrass the operations of the British Government, and to favour the cause of the enemy, and that his conduct could not be explained on any other grounds than that he actually was in league with Tippoo Sultan." "No doubt exists in my mind that the British Government would now be completely justified in depriving the Nabob of all power over his country and reducing him to the state of a mere pensioner." "Previously to the receipt of your Lordship's despatches,… I had determined to take immediate measures, on the demise of the Nabob Omrat-ul-Omrah, for exercising the Government of the Carnatic on the part of the Company." 1700 "The evidence of the Nabob's treachery, which was as positive as ever can be expected to be obtained in such cases, added to His Highness's conduct, which in every act from the day of his accession corroborated the truth of that evidence, would certainly have justified the Governor General in immediately proceeding against him as an enemy of the State, and the intimacy of his connection with the Company increased the danger to be apprehended." "Your Lordship is fully aware that the result of the discovery which has been made of the late Nabob's treacherous correspondence with the late Tippoo Sultan had placed the Soubadar of the Carnatic in the situation of a public enemy to the British Government, had annihilated the existing treaties between the Nabob and the Company, and
 1701 "Lord Clive is happy to inform the Governor General that this acknowledgment was entirely voluntary on the part of His Highness, and that the faith of the British Government has in no degree been pledged to recognize any inherent rights in the Nabob Azeem-ul-Dowlah. Throughout the late negotiations His Highness stated his conviction that the rights of His Highness's family founded on its connection with the Company, had been annihilated by the violation of the alliance, and that he considered the causes of his own elevation to have flowed from the generosity and moderation of the British Government. His Highness relinquished all claim to the acknowledgment of his hereditary pretensions." 1702 "The gracious condescension of his Lordship, in acknowledging me as the successor of my deceased father, in the rank and title of Nabob of the Carnatic; the congratulations which you offer me on this occasion; your informing me that my succession to the Musnud will be immediately proclaimed; and that the pecuniary provisions of the treaty concluded between the Hon. Company and my late father will be continued, have bound me by the strongest ties of attachment to his Lordship and yourself. You have acted towards me as an affectionate grandfather would act towards a beloved grandson, and it is quite impossible for me to express my gratitude in adequate terms."
 COLONEL DICKSON  regretted that he
 1715
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that no experiments had been tried by firing at Captain Coles's Cupola with a 300-pounder shot, or with steel shot. The experiments which had been made against Captain Coles's cupola consisted, first of all, of five rounds from the 40-pounder Armstrong gun, then thirty-four rounds from a 100-pounder, and then four rounds of spherical shot from the 68-pounder, at a distance of 200 yards; and the result was that there were various indentations on the cupola, but the working of the cupola was not disturbed, and it was not at present the intention of the Government to submit the turrets on board the  Royal Sovereign,
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to fulfil the promise understood to be made by Mr. Cardwell in 1860, that an Irishman and a Roman Catholic should be appointed to the first vacancy among the Irish Poor Law Commissioners?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he cared nothing for these rival railway companies, but wished to say a word for the great manufacturing interests and the private coal consumers of the eastern districts of London, who would be largely benefited by the passing of this Bill. They at present paid more for coal than any other persons, and they were subjected to a coal tax beside. Surely, then, if by any contrivance of art or science coal could be cheapened in London, it was the right of the consumers that this subject should be fully inquired into. No doubt, the Committee of last year had decided according to their lights, but was their decision to be final? When such great interests were involved, he hoped that their decision would not be considered final, and that the House would not reject a measure which was regarded throughout the metropolis as of great importance, but allow it to be inquired into by a Committee up stairs.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that although he had voted with the minority on the occasion of a similar Motion last Session, he must confess that, owing to the absence of any explanation upon the part of the Government, he entertained doubts lest, not having heard their case, he might have taken a one-sided and erroneous view as to the correctness of the course which he had pursued. He was, however, delighted to find that the able speech of the hon.
 1705 1706
 MR. NEATE  said, he was not sure that the meaning of the treaty was to convey upon the Nawabs an indefeasible right of hereditary succession. On the contrary, the Indian Government always claimed the right of superseding the right of succession, and of depriving the ruler, if they conceived his acts to be inconsistent with his duty of allegiance to the sovereign. Still there was no doubt —though it was stated on the authority of Mr. Edmonstone that there was no direct line —that the
 1697
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, his hon. Friend behind him (Mr. Dunlop) expressed a wish to have some other tribunal beyond the House constituted to inquire into the subject, but he had understood the objection stated by the hon. Member to be to a Committee. He was opposed to an investigation, whether conducted by a Committee or by any other tribunal. To propose an investigation by a Committee as had been done by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite into the authenticity of documents in a language unknown to them, and into occurrences which had taken place seventy years ago, was as monstrous a proposition as ever had been made to that House. He hardly thought it necessary to go into any argument on the subject of appointing a Committee, the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General upon that point had been so conclusive. The whole of the documents connected with the case had been laid upon the table and printed, and he was not aware that there was any question upon which a Committee could throw any light. The hon. and learned Gentleman had stated that the reason why Azeem Jah was deprived in 1855 of the position which his predecessors held, was the imputed treason of Wal-lajah and Omdut-ul-Omrah at the close of the last century; but it was no such thing. The reason for the course taken in 1855 was not any that had been alleged by the hon. and learned Gentleman; it was a reason of policy. The mischief of different kinds which had resulted from the maintenance of these mock Royalties was the real and valid objection to them. Lord Harris stated the reason shortly and as clearly as man could state it and concluded that the strongest grounds of public policy would justify their abolition if it could be done without violation of faith. The existence of those nominal sovereignties, possessed of no power, but beyond the law and exempt from it, wasting their revenues on a number of profligate and fanatical followers, and on some occasions becoming an. actual danger to the Government, was a state of things in the Carnatic and elsewhere which it behoved the Government of India to put an end to as soon as they could, provided no breach of faith was committed. Now, this question of policy was one upon which no person who had addressed the House had expressed an
 1709 1710 1711 1712 1713 1714
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  opposed the Motion for the second reading on the ground that it was not in accordance with the
 1657
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  having presented several petitions praying for inquiry into the claims of His Highness Azeem Jah to the title and dignity of the Nawab of the Carnatic, said:—Mr. Speaker, before I proceed to call the attention of the House to the Motion which I am about to submit, perhaps I may be allowed to allude in a single sentence to what has just passed concerning certain petitions in support of these claims. Sir, I am quite sure that this case requires not the aid of fictitious signatures, or of any other species of deception; and I hope and desire that my hon. Friend who has brought these irregularities under notice will pursue his inquiries, and if there have been misconduct of any kind, that justice may be done upon the offender with no prejudice to the cause of the prince. 1665 1666 "The first and most distinguished of our connections is that which has been formed with the present Nawab of the Carnatic. Our influence in the Carnatic is founded upon the free will and consent of the Nawab. From his confidence in our attachment and power he requested, of his own accord, that the Company might garrison his forts and maintain his troops at his own expense for the protection of the Carnatic. Such a confidence ought never to be abused. To have deserved it reflects honour upon our moderation; to abuse it would be to throw an indelible stain upon our character and our memory… It is certain that all the inconveniences we suffer will be amply compensated by the advantages derived from an exclusive influence in the Nawab's country. It is unquestionably to this influence we are indebted for a great portion of our prosperity, for our success against the French in India in the last war, and the decisive stroke made against them so early in the present war, to which, as affairs have since turned out, we owe, perhaps, our present existence in the East. The support of the Company was originally given to him, not upon his account, but their own." 1667 1668 History of British India, "Not only does this evidence afford no proof of a criminal correspondence with Tippoo on the part of the Nawab, but the total inability of the English to procure further evidence, with all the records of the Mysore Government in their hands, and all the living agents of it within their absolute power, is a proof to the contrary; since it is not credible that the criminal correspondence should have existed and not left more traces of itself." 1669 "This venerable Prince (Wallah Jah) would rather subject himself and family to difficulty and distress than be thought backward for a single moment in contributing most liberally to any arrangement which might lead effectually to the defence and prosperity of the Carnatic. I have narrowly watched the Nawab's conduct and sentiments since my arrival in this country, and I am ready to declare that I do not think it possible that any prince or person on earth can be more sincerely attached to the prosperity of the honourable Company than His Highness; or that any one has higher claims to their favour and liberality." "Mr. Dundas sent me Lord Wellesley's letter, and his answer and papers respecting the Nawab of Arcot. I told him that I wished the Nawab to be so managed as either to frighten him so much as to induce him to give up the management of the country, or to furnish a pretext for taking it from him." 1670 1671 "Various rumours exist relative to the birth of the person of whom the Nawab Omdut-ul-Omrah declares himself to be the father; it is, however, certain that the mother of this young man is of loose origin, and that she was never married to the Nawab. It is reasonable to believe that the succession of this young man would be felt as an injury to the right of the late Ameer's son, by all who might think favourably of the latter's title; and all such persons would undoubtedly use every practicable effort to defeat such a succession. Under the circumstances neither party could claim our support under existing treaties; and in determining to whom your support should be granted, we are at liberty to consider the security of Great Britain's interests in the Carnatic, and the general prosperity of the country, and the happiness of its people as the primary objects both of our right and duty. On this principle, it is manifest, that from the candidate whom we may resolve to raise to the Musnud, we may justly require the most ample pledges for the effectual remedy of the evils which now afflict the Carnatic. For this purpose the successor of Omdut-ul-Omrah must be required to surrender to the Company, in the most absolute manner, the Civil and Military Administration of the Carnatic, not retaining possession of a single fortress, nor maintaining an armed force, under any pretext whatever. No other arrangement would be adequate to the attainment of the indispensable objects which have been stated." 1672 "We then informed the Khans that the only remedy applicable to the errors of the present Government of the Carnatic was the substitution of one permanent authority, in lieu of the flue-
 1673 "His Excellency in Council, therefore, does not consider the objection to be of sufficient force to preclude the ratification of the treaty in its actual form; nor does he deem the proposed alterations to be of such importance as that they should be proposed to His Highness the Nawab Azeem-ul-Dowlah, at the hazard of forfeiting any of the advantages already acquired, or even of exciting any degree of alarm and jealousy in the mind of His Highness Azeem-ul-Dowlah." 1674 "The Prince Azeem-ul-Dowlah Bahadoor has been established by the East India Company in the rank, property, and possessions of his ancestors, heretofore Nawabs of the Carnatic." "For the purpose of supplying the defects of all former engagements, and of establishing the connection between the said contracting parties on a permanent basis of security in all times to come." "The Nawab is established in the state and rank with the dignities dependent thereon, of his ancestors, Nawabs of the Carnatic, and the possession thereof guaranteed by the honourable Company." "Such parts of the treaties heretofore concluded between the said East India Company and their Highnesses heretofore Nawabs of the Carnatic, as are calculated to strengthen the alliance, to cement the friendship, and to identify the interests of the contracting parties, are hereby renewed and confirmed." "The exalted and illustrious Emperor, Shah Allum, having been pleased to grant to Wallah Jah and his eldest son, and their heirs for ever, the government of the Carnatic, Payen Ghaut, and the countries dependent thereon (and the Nizam having agreed to release him and his heirs in succession for ever from all dependence on the Deccan) it is now agreed and acknowledged that the said Nawab Wallah Jah, and after him his son and their heirs and successors, shall enjoy for ever, &c, the government of the Carnatic." 1675 "The full and exclusive right to the revenues of the Carnatic (with the exception of such portion thereof as shall be appropriated to the maintenance of the Nawab and for the support of his dignity) shall be for ever vested in the Company." "It is hereby stipulated and agreed that one-fifth part of the net revenues of the Carnatic shall be annually allotted for the maintenance and support of the said Nawab and of his own immediate family, including the Mahal of his Highness the Ameer-ul-Omrah, and the said fifth part shall be paid by the Company in monthly instalments, &c, &c." 1676 "His Highness Prince Azeem-ul-Dowlah having entered into engagements for the express purpose of reviving the alliance between the Company and his illustrious ancestors, and of establishing an adequate security for the British interests in the Carnatic, the British Government had now resolved to execute its rights and its power, under Providence, in supporting and establishing the hereditary pretensions of the Prince Azeem-ul-Dowlah Bahadoor in the Soubadarry of the Carnatic." "That the new arrangement was made to preserve to that respectable family its ancient rank among the princes in Hindustan. "That when the Nawab Azeem-ul-Dowlah was raised to the rank of Nawab of the Carnatic his Highness succeeded to the rights of his illustrious ancestors, heretofore Nawabs of the Carnatic. "That the Nawab Azeem-ul-Dowlah, whom God preserve, had made himself the instrument of restoring the foundation of alliance with the British Government and the rank and dignity of his illustrious family. "That it is incumbent on the British Government to respect the rights acquired by His Highness by the late treaty; and it is my special duty to resist every attempt which may be made to encroach on those rights, or to violate the principles of the alliance now firmly and perpetually established." "And on the other hand, the faith of the executive Government is pledged by a treaty to secure to the Nawab his rights and immunities in the same full and ample manner as they have heretofore been by his Highness' predecessors, Nawabs of the Carnatic." 1677 "The Prince Omdut-ul-Omrah having agreed to the arrangement, a treaty was concluded by which the whole of the Civil and Military Government of the Carnatic was transferred for ever to the Company; and the Nawab Azeem-ul-Dowlah, and his heirs, were to preserve their title and dignities, and to receive one-fifth part of the net revenues of the country." "We congratulate your Highness on your accession to the Musnud of your ancestors. Your Highness may be assured that we shall seize every occasion of affording you proofs of regard, and of continuing to your Highness and to your family our especial friendship and protection." 1678 "I answered that a treaty plighted the public faith of the nation, so that it must be my duty to maintain its terms according to its true spirit, which ought always to be construed most favourably for the party whose sole dependence was on the honour of the other." "I answered that the case was widely different between a vanquished enemy and the representative of a family which had always preserved the most faithful alliance, and added that nothing should ever induce me to give a colour for others to imply a doubt which I myself could not for an instant entertain." "Under date 2nd October, 1819, the Madras Government stated to that of India that it would have been satisfactory to them to have been informed whether the Governor General in Council considered the treaty concluded with the late Nawab on the 31st July, 1801, to have guaranteed the succession to the Musnud in the direct and legitimate line of descent to which opinion they themselves had always been inclined, as well from the spirit in which the treaty was concluded, as from the tenor of its professions, and also from the terms of the declaration published at the period." "A new treaty was unnecessary, because he considered His Highness to he  ipso facto, "By the 1st Article of the Treaty of 1801, the Nawab Azeem-ul-Dowlah Bahadoor is formally established in the state and rank, with the dignities dependent thereon, of his ancestors. 1679 "By the 3rd Article the Company charges itself with the maintenance and support necessary for the defence of the Carnatic, and for the protection of the rights, person, and property of the said Nawab; and the said Nawab stipulates that he will not enter upon any negotiation or correspondence with any European or Native Power, &c. By this the Nawab does not relinquish his Sovereignty; he merely renews the article of former treaties, by which he engaged not to correspond with foreign States without the consent of the Company. "By the 5th Article, one-fifth part of the net revenue of the Carnatic is allowed for the maintenance and support of the said Nawab. The fifth part is his claim as Sovereign of the whole Carnatic. It is the revenue which remains after providing for the civil and military charges, and is probably as large a clear revenue as was received by any of his ancestors. "By the 10th Article the rank of the Nawab as prince and as an ally of the British Government is declared. No change in the political situation of the Nawab has taken place since 1801. He is still Prince of the Carnatic, and he is a party to the treaty by which one-fifth part of the revenue is secured to him. Without a breach of the treaty we cannot without his consent alter any of the Articles." "The accession of Goolam Mahomed Ghouse Khan Bahadoor, the legitimate son of the late Nawab, to the throne of his ancestors, we readily confirmed, and we pray God that he may long live to enjoy the honours and perpetuate the line of the ancient and illustrious family of which he is the descendant and heir." "His Lordship in Council observes, that His Highness Prince Azeem Jah Bahadoor (the late Naib i Mooktar) does not hold that place in List
 1680 "We hereby announce to the Native princes of India that all treaties and engagements made with them, by or under the authority of the Honourable East India Company, are by us accepted, and will be scrupulously maintained; and we look for the like observance on their part. We desire no extension of our present territorial possessions; and while we will permit no aggression upon our dominions, or our rights to be attempted with impunity, we shall sanction no encroachment on those of others. We shall respect the rights, dignity, and honour of our Native princes as our own, and we desire that they, as well as our own subjects, should enjoy that prosperity and social advancement which can only be secured by internal peace and good government." 1681 1682 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the claims of His Highness Prince Azeem Jah to the title and dignity of the Nawab of the Carnatic, and the claims of his Highness under a treaty entered into in 1801 between the Honourable the East India Company and His Highness Prince Azeem-ul-Dowlah."
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If he is aware of the fact that the "Wreck Abstract," annually presented to Parliament, refers only to casualties occurring on the coasts of the United Kingdom; whether it is possible to present to this House additional information containing particulars of casualties to Ships on the
 1663
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  could not agree with his hon. Friend that it would be desirable to send this case to a Select Committee. The present discussion would, however, show the people and princes of India that questions of justice affecting them were fully investigated in that House. It was unnecessary to go back beyond 1801. The East India Company effected a change in the succession to the Musnud, and placed upon it a member of the family out of the regular line of succession. The Carnatic family had no legal right to what was now claimed. It was a kind of Parliamentary title, and there was the evidence of the Marquess of Wellesley and others, to the effect that the words "heirs and successors" were purposely omitted from the treaty. It conferred, therefore, a personal right only. He believed that, for the sake of the family itself, the Government of India ought to put an end to the title of Nawab of the Carnatic. It was not an ancient dynasty, and the Nawab was but the lieutenant of the Soubadar, who was in turn only the lieutenant of the Emperor. The Nawab was therefore from the beginning the vassal of this country. He had endeavoured to persuade the Government to allow these and other Maho-
 1707
 MR. CHILDERS  asked the House to allow this Bill to go to a Committee, not on any personal grounds, for he was not interested in any railway, but solely on behalf of the people of the West Biding of Yorkshire, who had petitioned the House unanimously in support of the Bill, and who asked no more than that the Bill should be fairly considered. They stated that if a man wished to go to Exeter, Birmingham, or Lancashire he had two routes to choose between, but if he wanted to go from London to Yorkshire he had practically but one. They further alleged that the Great Northern was itself the child of competition; that it had itself been rejected once or twice, and ought not, therefore, to come down to this House to oppose the present measure. If the shares of the company to which the noble Lord had alluded were only at 46½, he would remind the House in what position those of the Great Northern were until it had attained its present high place by doing its duty; and if the House did its duty now, he hoped the Great Eastern would be yet in the same position as the Great Northern. It had been said that there were not special regulations in this Bill which the Bill of last year contained, but it would be seen from the shorthand writer's notes that the Bill of last year was rejected because it contained those very provisions. [The hon. Gentleman then read an extract from the shorthand writer's notes to the effect that the Chairman of the Committee objected to the Bill on the ground that as the gradients were so favourable that it was proposed to carry coals at a farthing the ton, it would not be fair to other companies who had not got the same gradients.]
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he believed the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken was a director of the Great Northern. Of course, anything the hon. Gentleman said was entitled to weight, but it should be taken with the understanding that he was a director. He had nothing to do with any of these railways, nor, indeed, had he any pecuniary interest in any railway in the kingdom; but the House was asked to reject this Bill, he thought, on a very insufficient ground,—namely, that it had been once rejected by a Committee of that House. He believed that that had been about the fate of nearly every great Railway Bill, but the very fact that the Bill was brought a second time to that House was at least some evidence to show that there were parties who considered the subject of sufficient importance as to induce them to take this matter up, and they were anxious that this Bill should be carried. It was very well known that the parties who were supporting this Bill were not entirely those who supported the Bill last year. At one end of the line there was a company with 400 miles of railway and an expenditure of £20,000,000, and at the other end a company with 600 miles of railway and £20,000,000 of expenditure,
 1658
 MR. HENNESSY  desired to refer for a minute to an incident which had occurred during the debate. An hon. Gentleman,
 1703 "That such parts of the treaties heretofore concluded between the said East India Company and their Highnesses heretofore Nawabs of the Carnatic as are calculated to strengthen the alliance, cement the friendship, and identify the interests of the contracting parties are hereby renewed and confirmed." "That the said Nawab, and after him his son and his heirs in succession, shall enjoy for ever the Government of the Carnatic." 1704
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any order has been issued for the indiscriminate seizure of South American Beef when exposed for sale to the public either in London or Liverpool?
 MR. SMOLLETT , in seconding the Motion, wished to say a few words. He knew that the Secretary of State for India (Sir Charles Wood) liked to hear everything that could be said against his Department before replying, and he would indulge the right hon. Gentleman in that respect. Language had not been given to him to conceal his thoughts. He would not touch on the legal phases of the question, which had already been sufficiently treated; besides which the case was one so plain and simple that "he who ran might read," and, moreover, Lord Harris had never taken the trouble of consulting any legal person in the matter. Having himself last Session brought forward a Motion of the same nature as this, and dwelt at considerable length on the details of the case, he would on the present occasion merely state how the matter had been disposed of in India, and how it was left in that House last year. To enable the House, however, to understand his argument they must bear in mind the broad features of the case. They must remember that the last Nawab of the Carnatic died in October, 1855, being then possessed of a titular dignity and of a considerable revenue attached thereto, held under the provisions of a treaty entered into in 1801. The prince who died in 1855 had succeeded in 1825, when a child, to his father, who then died, and the
 1683 1684 1685 Hansard, 1686 1687 1688 "First, as the treaty with the predecessor of the Nawab was a purely personal one; secondly, as the late Nawab had left no heirs male; and thirdly, as the family had grossly abused their dignity and the large sums which had been set apart for their maintenance, the Court of Directors had been advised to put the title of Nawab in abeyance." Don Juan, 1689 1690 1691
 MR. INGHAM  supported the Motion for a Committee, on the ground that in the two vacancies which had occurred after the Treaty of 1801 the hereditary title had been respected, and it was upon that foundation that the right of the present claimant rested. It was stated in a Minute of the Governor General that the uncle of the Nawab of that day claimed upon the ground of certain allusions made to him in former papers, and that no attempt would be made to weaken his claim. That might be taken to mean that in the case of the Nawab leaving no children the uncle would be allowed to succeed. When expectations had been held out to a man they ought to be considered as a pledge. The Government had stated that circumstances had arisen which induced them to set Azeem Jah aside, but they did not say what those circumstances were. Circumstances might have altered, but the House
 1708
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was aware that the "Wreck Abstract" annually presented to Parliament referred only to casualties occurring on the coasts of the United Kingdom. He thought it was possible to procure from Governors of our Colonies information as to casualties to ships on the shores of Her Majesty's Possessions abroad, and that such information ought to be added to the Returns. He also thought that Copies of the "Wreck Abstract" might be advantageously forwarded to the Governments of foreign countries, and their assistance invited in collecting Wreck Statistics on their own coasts.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Banks Stanhope), had asked for his opinion as to the mode in which that line would effect the navigation of the Trent. In answer to that appeal he had, in the first place, to observe that the jurisdiction of the Board of Trade upon matters of that description was limited and clearly defined. When any work was proposed which in their opinion would interfere with our internal navigation, it was their duty to inquire into the subject, to lay their Report before the House, and the Report was referred to the Committee on the Bill. If the present Bill were to go before a Committee they would follow that course, and report frankly and unreservedly to the Committee; but he did not think it was any part of his duty to give an opinion beforehand in reference to the merits of the scheme. The whole question could only be properly considered by a Select Committee; and he should, therefore, vote for the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. MITFORD , having been a Member of the much-abused Committee of last Session, wished to say that it sat five or six weeks. The Chairman was sometimes carried from his bed to the Committee Boom, and from the Committee-room back to his bed. About 11,000 questions were asked during the inquiry, and the walls and tables were covered with maps of the country. As the statement of his noble Friend (Viscount Galway) had been disputed by the hon. Member for Salford, he might say that he had been at the pains to compare the present Bill with that of last year, and that, in his opinion, it was virtually and substantially the same Bill. It was brought in, it was true, under a different name. Last Session it was called the "Great Eastern Northern Junction," but now it was the "Lancashire and Yorkshire and Great Eastern Junction Railway Bill." The Great Eastern Company had done well to put their friends into the foreground, but how the junction with the Lancashire and Yorkshire line was to make this a good Bill, it puzzled him to know. The Great Northern Railway had pledged itself to the Committee last year to lay out £1,000,000 to fill up the district. The other House had required the same pledges and they could not get rid of them; and these new lines, with one exception, received last Session the sanction of Parliament. It would therefore be a manifest wrong to admit the competition which the House had refused to permit last year, and for which they were charged with these responsibilities. The purity of the motives of the Committee had been impugned by several authorities, and particularly by a Yorkshire newspaper, in terms which he was sure would induce the hon. Member opposite, though so greatly opposed to corporal punishments, to agree with him (Mr. Mitford) richly entitled the writer to be flogged half-a-dozen times round Westminster Hall. All sorts of motives had been most unjustifiably attributed to them. The fact was that they had paid the
 1656 s. s.
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, that the Committee of last year, of which he was a Member, sat for twenty-five days, and came to a unanimous decision, reject-
 1660
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that he was Chairman of the Court of Directors at the time in question, and signed the Despatch complained of Ministerially. If he had done so in any other sense he would have belied the whole course of his conduct as one of the administrators of the affairs of India; for he had always to the utmost of his power been a supporter of the rights of the Native princes in India, and he could not help thinking that the observations which had fallen from the Solicitor General, to the effect that it was bad policy to uphold in that country the titular princes who existed there, were most mischievous in their tendency, as well as in direct opposition to the proclamation of the Queen on assuming the government of India. There were in India many of those princes, and what, he should like to know, could be their feelings if not those of distrust and doubt when they found that such expressions had been used by an Officer of the
 1716 "The exalted and illustrious Emperor Shah Allum, having been pleased, out of his great favour and high esteem for the Nawab, Wallah Jah, to give and grant to him and to his eldest son, Moyin-ool-Moolk, Oomdut-ool-Dowlah, and their heirs for ever, the Government of the Carnatic, Payeen Ghaut, and the countries dependent thereon by his Royal Firman bearing date the 26th August 1765 in the sixth year of the said Emperor's reign, and the Nawab, Asif Jah Nizam-ool-Moolk, &c, having also out of his affection and regard for the said Wallah Jah, released him, his son, Moyin-ool-Moolk, and their heirs and successors for ever from all dependence on the Deccan, &c." 1717
 MR. VANSITTART  hoped his hon. and learned Friend (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) would postpone the Motion of which he had given notice in consequence of the statement which had just been made.
 MR. VANSITTART  could not recognize the justice of the claim now put forward after the very liberal manner in which the Indian Government had treated the family of Prince Azeein Jah. They had paid a sum of £320,000 for debts incurred by the profligacy of the late Nawab. They had continued the allowance of £15,000 a year to his concubines and "pretty horse-breakers," and the payments to this family had been increased. Immense sums had been paid to natives of India who had put forward every sort of claim in the manner adopted by the individual who called himself Prince Azeein Jah. Why were so many of those claims put forward over and over again? He must express his conviction that the vacillating and evasive manner in which the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for India was in the habit of replying to questions of this nature induced hon. Members who took an interest in Indian affairs to revert to those claims again and again. In 1861 he called attention to the munificence of the right hon. Baronet, whereby in 1860 he bestowed upwards of half a million on the worthless descendants of Hyder Ali and Tippoo Sultan, and at the same time put all these Indian claimants on the  qui vive. 1696 "It would clearly have been the duty of those who were charged with the superintendence of India to scrutinize with the utmost severity every claim which might be made on the Indian revenues, and to oppose with energy and perseverance every such claim unless its justice were manifest. What India pays to these nominal princes, to the titular Nabob of Bengal, for example, or to the titular King of Delhi, who, while they did anything did mischief, and who now do nothing, she—that is India—may well consent to pay to her real rulers if she receives from them, in return, efficient protection and good legislation."
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he did not rise so much for the purpose of going into the general question before the House as to make a few observations on the remarks that had been made by the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Smollett). The hon. Gentleman said he did not intend that his language should conceal his thoughts. But if his language correctly conveyed his thoughts he (Sir Edward Dering) could not congratulate him on his frame of mind. He would endeavour to avoid the example set by the hon. Member, and to express his opinions in language more in accordance with the general usage of that House. The hon. Gentleman had thought fit to impugn in, no measured terms, the conduct of Lord Harris, the late Governor of Madras. Nothing was so easy as to frame a charge against any individual, provided actions were imputed to him of which he had not been guilty, and language was attributed to him entirely and totally at variance with that he had used. He would first state the charges made against Lord Harris by the hon. Gentleman, he would then refer to the original account given of the transaction by Lord Harris, and finally he would leave the House to form its own opinion as to how far those charges were established. The tendency of the whole of the speech to which they had just listened was to show that Lord Harris, in his position of Governor of Madras, had in 1855 compromised the national honour and the national faith. Now, Lord Harris on that occasion, in one of the opening paragraphs of the Minutes, while expressing his opinion in favour of determining this mock Royalty, explicitly stated that he would not advocate its abrogation if any breach of national honour or faith would be thereby involved. If the noble Lord had put an arbitrary construction upon the treaty in order to accomplish the end he had in view, no doubt there might have been some ground for the contention of the hon. Gentleman; but it was an established fact that Lord Harris, so far from adopting such a course, had made the Treaty of
 1693 "The whole question of the succession will therefore be completely open to the decision of the Company upon the decease of the present Nabob." "Throughout the whole of these negotiations the Nabob stated his conviction that the right of his Highnesses family founded on its connection with the Company was annihilated, and that he considered the causes of his own elevation to have flowed from the generosity and moderation of the British Government." "Azeem-ul-Dowlah was positively openly declared to have no hereditary claims; the treaty is made with him alone, and no provision is made for a successor." 1694 "I entirely agree that the Treaty of 1801 confers no right of hereditary succession—it is a purely personal treaty; there is no mention of heirs and successors. Lord Wellesley was not a man who did things without reason. When, therefore, while negotiating treaties with the Nawab of Oude and others, and forming treaties with those princes, their heirs and successors, and omitting all mention of them in the Treaty of 1801 alone, it is very certain Lord Wellesley did not intend to extend its provisions beyond the life of Azeem-ul-Dowlah." "It is most remarkable that of all the Englishmen in India of whose sentiments on that occasion we have any record, the Governor General, his Council, the Governor of Fort St. George, his Council, the Examining Commissioners, and the Persian translator, the very foremost men in India, not one appears to have doubted that the evidence we have examined established undeniably the facts which they so eagerly desired to infer." 1695
 MR. WATKIN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has received any communication from the War Office on the subject of relieving Volunteer Officers from liability of service on juries; and if he is prepared to take steps with a view so to relieve such Officers in consideration of the time devoted by them to their duties as Volunteers?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that no order whatever had been issued on the subject. It was not till he saw the notice of his hon. Friend's Question that he knew of any seizure having been made within the Metropolitan Police District; but by a report of the police proceedings at the Mansion House a few days ago he found that the Sanitary Inspector under the Commissioners of Sewers had seized a quantity of meat that was unfit for human food. It was said to be South American jerked beef, but from the evidence given it would not appear to have been so. At least, it was condemned on inspection, not because it was South American jerked beef, but because it was not fit for human food. So far from any directions being given for the indiscriminate seizure of the article, there was a question now pending whether, on the application of magistrates, South American jerked beef should not be used in gaols.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that the matter was now under consideration, and perhaps the hon. Member would postpone his Question till another day.
 VISCOUNT BURY  wished to say a few words on behalf of a body of people who had not hitherto been considered in this matter, the people of the Eastern Counties, who would receive essential benefit from the passing of this Bill. The coals consumed by them were now carried round by Peterborough and Ely. These coals would be 2 s. s.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that this Bill was not only opposed by the landowners, but also by the Great Northern Railway. The measure was virtually the same that had been rejected by a Committee upstairs last Session, and he thought that whenever two railway companies had had a fair stand-up fight, at an expense to each so enormous as to be scarcely credible, it was most unfair and unjust for the beaten company to bring forward an almost identical scheme next Session. No doubt the route proposed was not exactly the same. The object of the Bill of last year was said to be to convey coals more cheaply, and many Members were influenced in its favour by an undertaking on the part of the Great Eastern Company, which promoted it, to carry coals at a farthing per ton. That was entirely left out of the present Bill, and several clauses put in by the Committee were now omitted. The Great Northern had been for years and were now carrying coal at half the rates now proposed. The Committee of last Session sat twenty-five days, and nearly killed its Chairman; but it decided almost, if not quite unanimously, in favour of the Great Northern Railway. That company were now making a line to supply the missing link, being the termination of their loop-line, which went directly into the coal field. It was unjust to bring in the present scheme, at all events until the effect of the new line had been tried. He believed that it would so relieve the main line of the Great Northern of their coal traffic as to enable them to carry any amount of coal that might be put upon the line. The Great Eastern shares were only at 47, yet they came down to fight the Great Northern again upon a project that would, in all probability, be thrown out. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he regretted that he could not assent to the second reading of the Bill, and hoped that his hon. and learned Friend would be content with having made his statement, and would not press the Bill to a second reading. His hon. and learned Friend said that this Bill was to some extent a digest of the law relating to jurors in criminal cases. But he (the Solicitor General) begged to say that it had no pretensions to he called a digest, for there were a great many points of the law relating to jurors that were not touched upon at all. A digest of the law relating to jurors would have to deal with their qualifications, the mode of summoning juries, and a number of other questions of great importance, upon which the Bill did not touch. With respect to so much of the Bill as was declaratory, he could not help thinking that his hon. and learned Friend himself had stated strong objections. His hon. and learned Friend was opposed to unnecessary legislation, and, no doubt, where the law was settled, the multiplication of Act3 of Parliament was mischievous. Now, there were many cases contemplated in this Bill with regard to which declarations were not at all required. They did not want a declaration that a Judge had power to fine jurors, or that jurors might be discharged in cases of illness, or that if a jury could not agree the Judge might discharge them, or that where a jury was discharged the trial should be held to be null and void. All these declarations were quite unnecessary, and therefore mischievous. But with respect to those portions of the Bill which were not declaratory, there were also some serious objections. The Secretary for the Home Department had thought it his duty to consult the Chief Justices with regard to the provisions of the Bill, and they were both opposed to them. There was one provision which might possibly be salutary—namely, that contained in the 7th clause, to the effect that after a jury in a criminal case should have retired to consider their verdict, it should be lawful for the Judge to order them reasonable refreshment. If that provision were adopted in civil as well as criminal cases, he (the Solicitor General) was inclined to think it would be salutary,
 1722 1723 v, "The power of discharging the jury might be exercised in a case about to fail, and a man might
 1724
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he supposed the observations of the Solicitor General would be conclusive as to the fate of the Bill, but there was a point in connection with the subject to which he wished to direct attention, and that was the treatment which juries received with respect to payment of their expenses. Common juries hitherto had been treated in the most barbarous manner. They were kept without food, fire, and light, until they had agreed upon their verdict, and if they could not agree, the practice used to be that they were drawn upon a hurdle to the border of the county and there dismissed, and we did not give them the least compensation for attending in criminal cases. He had been lately in a court where the Judge had remarked that barristers and solicitors, prosecutors and witnesses, and all the officials connected with the carrying on of a trial were paid except the jurors, who received nothing at all. [Mr. HUNT: The Sheriff?] That was quite a different thing. The sheriff was supposed to seek his office on account of the dignity and importance attached to it, and at least was not of that class of life to whom a small expense was an object, but the jurors came from the same class as the prosecutors. And, with respect to the sheriff, he begged to say that he had shown his sympathy with that officer, by exerting himself for the abolition of javelin men and such paraphernalia, and thus reducing the expenses to which he had been subject. He hoped, as the Solicitor General was willing that reasonable refreshment should be given to jurors, that the question of remuneration for them would be also favourably considered, as it came within the same category.
 MR. LONGFIELD  thought it would be unwise to press this Bill after the declaration that had been made by the learned Solicitor General. This Bill was not a
 1725
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in moving the second reading of Juries in Criminal Cases Bill, said, the measure might be described as a chapter of the proposed digest of the unwritten law, and would introduce a very desirable improvement in our present judicial system. The law had hitherto fluctuated with respect to the power of Judges to discharge juries who could not agree to a verdict in criminal cases. In the days of Lord Coke it was considered that a jury once sworn in a criminal case could not be discharged under any circumstances until they had found a verdict. But in modern times Judges had assumed a right to discharge juries in those cases where it was found they had been locked up for a sufficient period, and that they could not agree upon their verdict. The right of the Judges to do this was questioned in the Court of Queen's Bench in
 1718 v. v. v. habeas corpus v. v. v. 1719 1720 v. 1721
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  moved for leave to introduce a Bill for the purpose of abolishing the toll taken on foot passengers passing over or on Chelsea Bridge. The subject, he said, was not a new one, and he thought that when the Bill came on for a second reading he should be able to show that the circumstances in favour of the abolition of the toll were stronger now than they were in 1858.
 MR. WHITE  said, he gave the hon. Member for Walsall the fullest credit for the mode which he had taken to discharge his public duty; hut having presented a petition on Tuesday last from Brighton in favour of the claim of Azeem Jah, he wished to state that it was brought to him by one of his constituents, that he had taken the trouble to look over it, and that he could vouch that it was properly signed.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  in reply, said, the competition between the Armstrong and Whitworth guns was allowed to be carried on entirely according to arrangements made between the parties concerned. Since the Question had been put on the paper, he understood that the experiment to which the hon. Gentleman referred was about to take place, and that a day had been fixed for the purpose.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that he had made inquiries both at the War Office and the Horse Guards, and he was unable to find that any such order had been issued since the year referred to.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he would beg to ask whether there was any hope that the Commission would come to a decision before the next two years, and whether the public were to wait all that time for a decision.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  asked, if the Government had received any information as to the present position of affairs in New Zealand, where he understood there was great excitement, apprehensions being entertained that war might again break out?
 MR. WHITE : It might be inferred from the representation of the deplorable distress prevailing in Coventry, coupled with the large quantity of French ribands imported into this country, that the French riband manufacturers were in a prosperous state. On the contrary, he (Mr. White) held in his hand a circular from a manufacturing house in France, dated the 4th of this month, bewailing the condition of the riband weavers in St. Etienne as truly deplorable. A French paper, dated the 14th of this month, also mentioned the distress under which the riband weavers were now suffering. While all regretted that the people of Coventry, or any other place of manufacture, should experience privation from the absence of trade, it must be recollected that it was a matter of periodical recurrence in that city during the last forty years. This branch of industry was peculiarly liable to the caprice of fashion, and neither the House of Commons nor any other power could control the taste and choice of the fashionable
 1753 passementerie,
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON : At one time the works of the Suez Canal were carried on entirely by fellahs—that is, peasants of Egypt who were compelled to labour. The Sultan, however, some months ago issued a firman forbidding that species of employment for the future, and as far as we are informed that firman is now in force and is executed. We have no information to the contrary. I know that the Canal Company have endeavoured to obtain labour from Morocco, and, I think, from Tunis; and I also know that there were a certain number of English navvies also employed in the construction of the canal. I believe that they were dissatisfied with the conditions imposed upon them, and most of them left; hut we have no reason to believe that forced labour is now employed in the construction of the works.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, the House has already discussed very fully so many subjects connected with the Administration of the Army, that I shall now trespass on the attention of the Committee for a shorter time than I should otherwise have felt it necessary to do. We have already had debates on the subjects of recruiting, ordnance, and the fortifications of Canada. These three subjects, perhaps, the most important of those to which it will be my duty to call attention this evening, have already received full and complete consideration from the House. Therefore I will not detain the Committee by making any preliminary observations on those great questions, but will proceed at once to give an explanation of the Estimates that have been laid on the table. I will first remark that hon. Members will observe that some slight changes are made this year in the form of the Estimates. In deference to the wishes expressed last year, and more especially in deference to the suggestions of the right hon. Member for Huntingdon, we have this year reverted to the practice of taking the first Vote for the number of men; but as the numbering of several Votes had been already fixed, and considerable inconvenience would have been experienced by altering the numbering, we have designated the first two Votes relating to the numbers of the men by the letters A and B, retaining the numbering of the remainder of the Votes. Hon. Members will also observe that charges have in some instances been transferred from one Vote to another—for instance, certain charges for pay have been placed in the Commissariat Vote as more properly belonging to it, and I fear that some inconvenience may possibly be felt by those who wish to compare the expenditure of the present year with that of former years; but all the changes have been made from principle. All that we have done is to transfer particular charges from one Vote to another, placing them in that Vote to which they strictly belong; for it is only by comprising in each Vote those charges which are really applicable to it that we can make each Departments responsible to the Secretary of State. The Army Estimates laid on the table this year amount to £14,348,447, being a reduction upon those voted last year of £495,641. But
 1762 1763 1764 1765 1766 1767 1768 1769 1770 1771 1772 d. 1773 d. 1774 s. 1775 1776 1777 1778 1779 1780 1781 "That the number of Land Forces, not exceeding 142,477 men (including 9,109, all ranks, to be employed with the Depots in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland of Regiments serving in Her Majesty's Indian Possessions) be maintained for the Service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from the 1st
 1782
 GENERAL PEEL : As it is more than probable that unless some unforeseen event occurs, these are the last Army Estimates that this House of Commons will be called upon to pass, I propose to compare them, as was suggested by the noble Lord, with the military expenditure at the time when the present Parliament was elected, and also to call the attention of the House to the sums of money which have been voted by this Parliament for the naval and military services, in order that when we go back to our constituents, we may be able to prove that if there are any deficiencies in the preparations for the defence of this country, it is not owing to any parsimony or want of liberality on the part of the House of Commons. I believe that both hon. Members and their constituents will be very much astonished when they hear the amount of money which has been spent during the existence of this Parliament. I am very anxious that the truth should be known upon this subject, because I have seen statements which have been made by hon. Gentlemen during the recess which show that when they are addressing their constituents without fear of correction or contradiction, they take the most extraordinary liberties with facts and figures, and instead of enlightening their constituents only mislead them. One statement to which I am about to refer, was made by the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne), whom I am very sorry not to see in his place. Anything falling from him must have a great effect, and not only with the assembly he addresses, for his speeches are read all over the world. The hon. Gentleman in addressing his constituents on the 21st of October, 1864, said—
 "Up to the year 1859, the expenditure of this country was increasing at a monstrous rate." "But since Mr. Gladstone has been the Chancellor of the Exchequer, since the year 1859, he has cut down the taxation from £72,000,000 in that year to £67,000,000 in 1864." 1783 "But it is higher than the estimated expenditure of 1858–9, which is the last year before we come to the year of a very high expenditure, £2,226,000, or if we correct the comparison by debiting ourselves with the amount of the Long Annuities, which we have saved, and also the expenditure for fortifications, but deducting £1,125,000 which now appears on both sides of the account, but did not so appear in 1858–9, there is an aggregate increase of £4,047,000."—[3  Hansard, 1784 1785 "That during the time of the Crimean war I believed the greatest number of enlistments in one month was 6,000, but in the last month the enlistments had amounted to 7,500. For the last half-year men had been enlisted, including recruits for the East India Company, at the rate of 6,000 men a month, making 36,000 enlistments during the last six months."—[3  Hansard, 1786 The Times 1787 1788
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that he wished to make a few remarks upon a subject which he had alluded to upon a late occasion. He had been taken to task by the noble Marquess the other night because he had expressed an opinion that the recruiting of the army was at a dead lock. When he found that the opinion out of doors was that the army was hundreds below the establishment, and when the noble Lord admitted that, instead of hundreds, it was thousands below the establishment, he did not think there was much reason for objecting to his statement. He could hardly understand the constitutional mode of proceeding adopted by the Government when it was found one morning that the number of men for the army voted by the House of Commons had been reduced without warning by 5,000 men. It might be that some day the Government might take upon themselves to reduce the number of men by 40,000. He considered, therefore, that he had been justified in saying that recruiting was at a dead lock. The noble Lord must know that not a day passed but that men below the standard were enlisted because it was impossible otherwise to approach the required number. The noble Lord also said that the Limited Enlistment Act was working as well as was expected, and that the proportion of men who re-enlisted after taking their discharges remained about 60 per cent. That was exactly what the opponents of that measure had always expected. The fact was that out of every 100 old, trained, well-disciplined soldiers, 40 left the army, and from the information he had received from
 1792 1793
 THE CHAIRMAN : The hon. and gallant Member is out of order in referring to a past debate in the present Session.
 COLONEL NORTH  would then simply refer to an expressed opinion of the Under Secretary for War as to our army being largely composed of the sweepings of towns. That was a statement which he heard with deep regret, and which had been very hurtful to the feelings of men in the lower ranks of the army, where were to be found men of as high and honourable feelings as in any other class of society. The country, too, would wish to know how it was that an army so composed could produce a body of men who for respectability of character were not to be surpassed, and whose gallantry on the field and loyalty to their Sovereign were unequalled, without whom no regiment could exist—the non-commissioned officers of the British army. The noble Marquess's observations on the former occasion—he hoped they were not intended so to do—had given great pain to the whole army. He had been a Member of that House for many years, but he never heard a speech more insulting to a gallant and distinguished body of men than the speech of the noble Lord. He would now refer to the case of Lord De Ros, who went out but did not reach the Crimea, because his health failed him. There was no reason, however, why an officer who had done his duty for forty years should receive no reward. If an officer refused to go on foreign service that would be another thing, but it was Lord De Ros's misfortune and not his fault that his health failed. He was sure that the hon. Baronet had not intended to cast any reflections upon the noble Lord. He did not think it fair on the part of the noble Lord to attack him as he did on a former occasion, and he (Colonel North) only wished that he had had then the opportunity of following him.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that he could not but regard the remarks of the hon. Member for Tavistock as unworthy of him and of his position in that House. He did not stand there to justify the appointments of the Horse Guards. He had always thought that those appointments could not be discussed in that House with advantage to the service. Should any flagrant case arise, no doubt the House would interfere, but as a rule these appointments ought not to be made the subject of discussion, He believed he was as well acquainted with the military messes as the hon. Baronet, and he would venture to say that there was not one military mess in the whole of the service where those appointments had been generally disapproved. No doubt disappointment had been experienced in some quarters, but throughout the army the appointments had experinced general approval. The hon. Baronet then told the House that there really existed no general in the army. [Sir JOHN TRELAWNT: Very few.] Such a statement as that ought not to go forth to the world without being fully contradicted. We were well aware that our enemies had to their cost been made acquainted with the power of our generals, and our friends had no need to be informed of it. Then came the old story of extravagant and ruinous messes; but he would venture to say that no officer had been ruined through his mess expenditure. The real truth was that oftentimes expenditure of money in other directions was attributed to the expenses of the mess. He had never listened to any speech with greater pleasure than he had to the admirable statement made by the noble Lord who had introduced the Estimates that evening. Everybody must have been pleased with the ability which the noble Lord had displayed in delivering so good a defence for so bad a cause, because upon examination he believed it would be found that the Estimates were the worst which had been introduced for some time. A great deal was said of a peace establishment and a desire for economy, but Estimates were presented within £2,000,000 of the highest which had ever been laid on the table. There was a nominal reduction of £450,000, but that reduction was in reality owing to the fact that our army was to be reduced by 4,000 men, because,
 1797
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he thought the hon. Baronet (Sir John Trelawny) was wrong in condemning the appointment of Lord De Ros to the command of a regiment; but his remarks had raised the whole question as to how these appointments were to be made—whether they were to be made the reward of long service or services in the field. Now everything relating to this matter was uncertain. At one time one course was followed, at another time another. He wished the noble Lord, if he could, to tell them the rule of the service. A gallant Officer had alluded to another branch of the service, in which appointments were equally uncertain—that was the rule in respect to staff appointments. He (Colonel Dunne) quite agreed with him in the opinion that at the Horse Guards the officers of Commander-in-Chief's staff ought not to be changed so frequently as every five years, which was the rule laid down (though evaded) for holding general staff appointments of the army. It was a subject of complaint that there was no distinct rule laid down, which everyone could understand, in respect to those matters. The appointments according to the rule were made for five years, but now was it applied, equally as well? Certainly not, for we find one officer is transferred from staff appointment to staff appointment, while another at the expiration of his time, is sent about his business, and it is hard to persuade people that favouritism and interest does not guide the selections. The rule as to five years might be made generally, if not undesirably, for the staff of the army, and the appointments at the head-quarters be regarded as exceptional for the duties of such officers required extensive acquaintance with the characters and views of all who served in the army, and at the end of five years they might be compelled to leave office just as they had acquired the knowledge most useful to a Commander-in-Chief. He did not think it advisable to enter into the services of the officers whose appointments had been made the subject of dispute, but some distinct and
 1799 1800 2d. 2d. 5d. 2d. 1801
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that he rejoiced at the improvements in the form of the Estimates which had taken place since last year; and all the alterations in the details were improvements. But in future years we wanted similar improvements containing more detailed information with regard to our manufacturing establishments. He had always urged that the Estimates should show the work to be performed. With regard to the mess system, he had been a member of a regimental mess for thirty years, and had never known an instance of an officer being ruined by it. The best social results were obtained from it; it kept up the tone of the officers, maintained an  esprit de corps, 1804 1805
 COLONEL GILPIN  was glad that Government intended to do away with the depot system, which was both expensive and pernicious. He could not congratulate them for having reduced the number of men, as he considered the army to be many thousands below the requisite standard. He agreed with the hon. Member for Wexford that the system of recruiting had broken down, but he could not concur in some of the remedies which he suggested. The pay must be increased and the system of enlisting for ten years discontinued, if they desired to effect any marked improvement in recruiting for the army. He could not agree with the hon. and gallant Member for Longford (Mr. O'Reilly) that it would be a good thing to send a militia regiment and a regiment of the Line to the same county. The 14th regiment of the Line was called the Buckinghamshire, and the 16th the Bedfordshire regiment. He had had the honour of commanding the Bedfordshire Militia for some years, and during the Crimean war and the Indian mutiny his corps volunteered more than a battalion to the Line. Yet only one man out of the whole number volunteered into the 16th regiment—the regiment connected with the county. With respect to what the hon. and gallant Member (Sir Frederic Smith) had said about Aldershot, he must say he held him answerable for its construction. The contractor was paid for the best. The contract was that the huts at Aldershot should be composed of the best materials; how then did it happen, as was alleged, that the best materials were not used in their construction? It was said that a number of rats infested the huts, but before the camp was finished the rats used to come around the huts to get the droppings from the meat and
 1813
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in replying, said, he was afraid that he should not be able to answer all the questions which had been put to him in the course of the discussion, adding that some of them related to mere points of detail, and could be better explained when the particular Votes with which they were more immediately connected came on for consideration. The subjects to which the greater portion of the observations which had been made that evening was directed were recruiting and the operation of the Limited Enlistment Act; and with regard to the first he must maintain, notwithstanding the repeated contradictions with which the statement had been met, that recruiting for our army was not a failure, as was shown by the fact that we obtained this year 15,600 men with a bounty of only £1 in operation. That, he believed, was as large a number as had ever been raised with so low a bounty and in time of peace. As to the working of the Limited Enlistment Act, he need only point out that the necessity for raising a large number of recruits was owing in a great degree to the increased numbers of our army, and to the fact that additional troops were required for service in India. The number of men
 1816 6d. 1817 1818 1819 1820
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Certainly.
 COLONEL NORTH  observed, that if the
 1821
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he hoped that the Committee would now allow him to take the Vote for troops, amounting to £5,434,567, reserving further discussion for other items.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that it did.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the appointment of a Major General to inspect the Guards had frequently been discussed in that House, and the decision come to had been in favour of continuing the appointment. Good reason had been shown for abolishing the appointment of Inspector General of Infantry; but much inconvenience had been felt before the appointment of a Major General to inspect the Foot Guards.
 COLONEL DUNNE  remarked, that hon. Gentlemen who were in favour of the maintenance of this office appeared to forget that there were three colonels to inspect the battalions of Foot Guards. He thought the Chairman ought to be directed to report Progress.
 COLONEL NORTH  was of opinion that a Lieutenant General instead of a Major General ought to have been appointed as Inspector General of the Foot Guards. In any other army this would have been the case.
 COLONEL GILPIN  observed, that the line was commanded by general officers. The abolition of the office of Inspector General of Infantry had reference solely to depot battalions.
 COLONEL DUNNE  moved that the Chairman report progress.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the artificers and labourers in the dockyards, when employed on extra time, were as a rule paid for such employment. There were, however, certain exceptions. Occasionally the workmen asked for a holiday—the great majority being desirous of it—and applied to be allowed to work it out in extra time before taking the holiday. There were no doubt cases in which a minority would rather not have the holiday; but it was quite clear that the yards could not be kept open, and all the fires burning on account of them. They had. therefore, to give way to the wishes of the great majority. There were occasional cases also in which the men were obliged to work extra time—tidal time; for instance, when a ship was being put into dock, or taken out, it was absolutely necessary that the men should be employed extra time, but then they were allowed time by way of holiday the following day. He was not aware that any complaints upon the subject had been received from the dockyards. He could not state exactly what number of hours the men had been so employed, but he would make inquiries.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to inquire whether the noble Marquess would let him see in private the paper containing the observations of the Department on these recommendations.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that he entirely concurred in the approval so generally expressed as to the manner in which the noble Marquess who represented the War Office, had performed the duty assigned to
 1809 esprit de corps 1810 Gazette 1811
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that he differed from the hon. and gallant Gentleman who spoke last as to the guns. He wished to point out to the Committee the power which this country had of manufacturing
 1806 "I decidedly prefer him (the agricultural labourer)—he is a vastly superior man in conduct, in stature, and in everything else." 1807 "The large number of medical rejections shows, I think, very conclusively, that it is an inferior class of the population from which we attempt to recruit our army." "I prefer agricultural recruits, they are more obedient, better behaved, and better soldiers in every way." "I must say, I have seen many regiments of militia particularly in counties where I have been very much struck with the magnificent class of men in them. The very large proportion of agriculturists of which the militia is composed, shows me distinctly that the militia agency would be very useful in getting the agricultural class. The effective volunteering from the militia upon the 1st July, 1858, consisted of 61,973 men of whom 25,399 were agricultural labourers." 1808 "Does your Royal Highness think that it would be possible to combine such a reserve force with the militia, perhaps not constituted as it is now, but to make that reserve force a part of the militia?—There would be a difficulty in that; because you propose to give a pension; therefore I presume that as the men are to have a pension they would have to be considered more as reserves of the line than a militia. We have now a great many old soldiers serving in the militia, and every two years' service of sergeants on the militia staff go towards counting for pension—men who have completed their sixteen years, and have to make up their twenty-one, do it exactly in the way your Royal Highness has mentioned. Then I am not aware that there would be any objection to it. It is a new idea which I have not much considered, but at the present moment I do not see any objection to it."
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether since the year 1829 any orders or instructions have been given by the Military Authorities to Officers charged with the duty of recruiting not to take Irish or Roman Catholic recruits for either
 1740
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if the right hon. and gallant General referred back to 1858–9, he would find that the expenditure was then increasing. In point of fact, there had been a general increase in the naval and military expenditure of the country down to the present time. It appeared to him that the statement of his hon. Friend the Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne) was consistent with the fact. The hon. Member for Liskeard had said—
 "Taking into consideration the state of the peace establishments prior to the Crimean war, their state after that war, and their present state, there was shown a large increase."
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  asked if the advances which he believed amounted to £150,000 had been repaid?
 MR. ADDERLEY  expressed his approval of the Bill, which he believed to be the best measure relating to the colonies that had been passed during his Parliamentary experience. The old system of governing the colonies from Downing Street had passed away and a new system had been introduced, which had left the colonies a burden and embarrassment upon the mother country and a source of danger and weakness in time of war. The recent example of the Canadian volunteers showed how excellent a feeling pervaded our colonies, and it was surprising that it should be only now that a Bill should be proposed to give power to the colonies to provide vessels of war, weapons, and volunteers for their own defence. He thought the Bill was one which reflected the highest credit upon the Secretary for the Colonies, and he had no doubt it would prove most beneficial both to this country and to the colonies.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  expressed his thanks to the Government for having obtained from the French Government a re-
 1756 1757
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was always painful to destroy a beautiful theory, but he begged to observe that the arrangement for the moderate increase of the military contribution of £32,000 to £45,000 was conceived and announced to the colony two years ago by his noble Friend the late Duke of Newcastle, and was not originated by the present Secretary to the Colonies at the close of an expiring Parliament. The execution of it, however, was delayed till lately on account of the great expenditure then going on in the colony upon railway works.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, in the Question he was about to put he did not mean to pronounce any opinion as to the facts. He wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the attention of the Government has been drawn to a statement made by Mr. Justice Monahan at the County Down Assizes on Friday, 10th March, that, of certain persons engaged in a party riot on the 10th February, only the Catholics had been prosecuted, and the Protestants allowed to go free; and whether the Government will take measures to insure in future that all persons transgressing the Law in Ireland, of whatever religious denomination or party, shall be rendered equally amenable to the impartial administration of justice?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether all forced labour on the works of the Suez Canal has been entirely and finally dis-
 1760
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, as a Member of the Committee he disclaimed any intention on their part to prejudice the Motion in the case of Azeem Jah, they only reported the forgeries in discharge of what they conceived to be their duty to the House. They had reason to believe that a large number of the signatures were fraudulent, and as this was clearly an abuse of the right of petition some public notice ought to be taken of it.
 MR. CARDWELL : Nothing can be fairer or more reasonable than the questions which my right hon. Friend has put to me. The circumstances of the case are these:—The first despatch which called
 1814
 MR. CARDWELL  explained that the matter referred to by the hon. Gentleman was part of the arrangement made last year in respect to the Guarantee Loan; but he (Mr. Cardwell) had received a letter stating that the colony did not accept the Guarantee, and therefore the arrangement referred to was not to be considered binding.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the hon. Member for Tavistock (Sir John Trelawny) had asked him whether a proclamation, dated the 17th of December, had been received from New Zealand, and whether those parts of that proclamation which were favourable to the Natives were intended to be carried into effect in good faith? That hon. Gentleman, referring also to the unfortunate dispute about the Waitara plot, spoke of it, though not with perfect accuracy, as though it had been admitted to have originated in a breach of the Treaty of Waitangi. The hon. Gentleman was aware that the controversy about the Waitara plot originated many years ago, and that the course taken by Governor Browne was, upon further knowledge, reversed by Governor Grey, But it would not be true to say that Governor Browne and the Government of the colony were
 1746 1747
 MR. CARDWELL  acknowledged the expressions of approval with which this Bill had been received. The object of the measure was to extend to the colonies the benefits of the Royal Naval Reserve, and to enable them to place ships at the disposal of the Crown. It would, he hoped, be the foundation of a naval force maintained by the energy and at the expense of the colonies, constituting a most valuable addition to the Imperial defences.
 MR. CARDWELL : I think I have already answered both those questions. The withdrawal of the five regiments is a measure which was decided upon not by General Cameron, but by the Government at home. With regard to the tenour of the instructions of my noble Friend the Secretary for War, I can only say that I believe they are such as to leave sufficient latitude to General Cameron as to how he should act should unforeseen circumstances arise after the instructions were sent out.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the hon. Member for Coventry had brought forward a most painful case, and he had clearly shown the great amount of distress which existed amongst the operatives of that town. He must, however, say that he could imagine nothing less likely to raise the spirits of the people of Coventry than the answer which had just been given by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. The hon. Member for Coventry made use of a peculiar remark, and one which gave him (Mr. Bentinck) the impression that he had not quite studied one feature of the case. The hon. Gentleman said he brought forward the Motion, not on political grounds, but on the grounds of humanity. Now did any one ever hear of the humanity of a free trader? Why, they might as well appeal to the sensability of a boa constrictor or the amiability of an alligator as to the humanity of a free trader. The great principle of free trade was to carry out its views at any cost, at any sacrifice, and at any amount of human suffering; and, in spite of appeals to the contrary, that principle had
 1758 1759
 MR. LYALL  said, that before going into the Army Estimates he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies whether the amount contributed by the colony of Mauritius for its military defence was in his opinion sufficient. It appeared that that island, according to the Estimates laid before the House this year, would cost £160,000 for its military expenditure, of which £45,000 would be paid by the colony and £115,000 by the Imperial Government. That was a small increase to what the island contributed in former years. Was it fair that this country should pay nearly three- fourths, and the colony scarcely more than one-fourth for its own defence, more especially seeing that we defrayed the entire naval expenditnre? The island of Mauritius had, as was well known, nearly all the advantages that this world could offer—a glorious climate, a prosperous people, and a fertile soil. Its area consists of about 708 square miles, or nearly the size of the county of Surrey. It has a population of 323,000, though it had scarcely more than 100,000 inhabitants thirty years ago. Its revenue for the year 1863 was £518,278, and its expenditure £482,524, leaving a surplus of £35,755. In fact, for many years past there had been a surplus, so that the accumulated balances had amounted to many hundred thousand pounds, which had recently been applied to
 1744 d. 1745
 MR. H BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether in the competition which has been carried on between Armstrong and Whitworth Guns they have been tested by oblique tiring?
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he thought that the remarks of the hon. Member for the King's County ought not to pass without correction. During the whole of his experience of eighteen years as a Member of the Committee on Public Petitions he had never seen so gross a fraud as that now brought under the notice of the House. It was not a case in which one or two names had been attached with or without the knowledge of the parties, but one petition on the face of it appeared to be fraudulent from first to last. The very first name was proved to be a forgery, and the Committee thought it their duty to bring the matter before the House, but without the slightest intention to prejudice the debate.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Walsall that he was the last Member of that House to whom he should attribute any improper motive. He did, however, think that the mentioning of the fact by the hon. Member was calculated to prejudice the debate, and he was borne out in this view by the report of what took place. After the hon. Member for Walsall resumed his seat, another hon. Member (Mr. Vansittart)—
 "Hoped his hon. and learned Friend (Sir F. Kelly) would postpone the Motion of which he had given notice, in consequence of the statement which had just been made." "Your Committee have, in the ease of the petitions from Romford, North Ockenden, and Ossett, presented by Mr. Bramston; and Enham ami Andover, by Mr. Beach, reported to the House the number of names appended thereto, but they are of opinion that many of them are not in the handwriting of the persons whose names are attached, and that the Orders of the House, which require that every petition must be signed by the parties whose names are appended thereto by their
 1738
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he had the other evening called the right hon. Baronet's attention to the case of a man who for begging had been sentenced to seven years' penal servitude. He should like to
 1741
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  asked the Secretary for the Colonies, Whether the proclamation made by the Governor of New Zealand in December, 1864, was to be carried out to the letter, and according to the words of the document, or whether it was to be interpreted by the arbitrary principle which had been established and acted upon by the Governor himself, as
 1743
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  asked, whether this item included the pay of the Major General attached to the Foot Guards.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that no good reason had been shown for the maintenance of this office.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY , under these circumstances, must move the reduction of the Vote by a sum of £691 19s. 7 d., 1822
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  thought that the statement of the noble Lord was a very straightforward, business-like and intelligible statement. At the same time, hon. Members sitting below the gangway were entitled to express their opinion on this subject, for they had to reconcile the masses outside to this enormous Vote of nearly fourteen millions and a half. The point to which principally he wished to allude was the distribution of appointments. The colonelcies of regiments were appointments of great value, and he was sorry to say that in some instances they were bestowed on officers not best entitled to them. These were mere sinecure appointments, and he could not help thinking that they placed in the hands of the Government a very dangerous kind of patronage, for there were many Members of both Houses of Parliament to whom they would be extremely acceptable, and several of these prizes had been thus bestowed. He challenged opinion on this point, and asked whether it was not true that at every mess in the British army some of the recent appointments had been the subject of comment. They had been distributed in a manner that was not proper nor correct. They had the case of Lieutenant General Lord De Ros, who entered the army in 1819, and after passing through various ranks was made Deputy Lieutenant of the Tower in 1852, the salary of which office (with table money) was £746 15s. a year; and yet the other day he was named a full colonel of a regiment of cavalry, his pay as such colonel being set down in the Estimates at £1,350, and it would seem that he would receive in all some £2,096 15s. Under all circumstances his appointment to this colonelcy was a scandalous and an improper one. He had been told that this colonelcy had been given to the noble Lord because the new order with respect to holding two offices had not come into force at the time when he became Deputy Lieutenant of the Tower. But why was it necessary to confer on him the
 1790 The Times 1791
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  wished to explain. His case was, that there were
 1794
 MR. DAWSON-DAMER  said, that the Brigade of Guards was really a division, consisting of seven battalions; and considering that a division of the army in the field comprised only six, it was only common sense that the so-called brigade should be under the command of a General.
 MR. MARSH , as a colonist, also expressed his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for this most valuable measure. He expressed an opinion that the defence of the colonies must depend mainly upon the navy, especially by vessels capable of running into shallow water—such vessels as could well be manned by volunteers.
 MR. TREHERNE  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any communication has taken place between Her Majesty's Government and that of France with a view to the modification of the Commercial Treaty of 1860; and whether they are in possession of any Report respecting the present condition of the Riband Weavers, and whether it is not the fact that their condition is even more distressing than it was last year; and, if so, whether the Government were prepared to devise some effectual measures by which the annihilation of the English Riband Trade may be averted. The Government were aware of the painful state of distress which existed last year in the city he had the
 1749 8d. 6d. 6d d. 3d.; 5s. d. 6d.; d. 1750 1751 1752 d.
 MR. WALPOLE : My right hon. Friend has not given a very distinct answer to the questions which I put to him. I do not mean to dispute the justice of the policy to which he refers, and as to which the information just given is very precise; but what I am anxious to know is whether the withdrawal of the troops under present circumstances is to take place with the concurrence of General Cameron, and whether, the five regiments being ordered home, there are any conditions annexed to the instructions sent out which would enable the Governor of New Zealand or General Cameron, should they deem it necessary, to detain those troops in the colony.
 MR. WALPOLE : My right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies having adverted to the proposed gradual withdrawal of troops from New Zealand, I wish to say that, provided that colony was in a state of peace, and that all the difficulties of the unfortunate war which is now being waged there were settled, or that the colonists were in a position to defend themselves, I should be prepared to admit that the policy announced on the part of the Government was that which it was right to adopt. That policy was first suggested by the late Duke of Newcastle, and was subsequently mentioned in a despatch of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell). When my right hon. Friend sent out the last despatch which has been laid on the table, things in New Zealand were no doubt in a more favourable position than they had previously been, but even then they were not such as we could wish, while the accounts which we have received to-day are anything but satisfactory. Now, I should be sorry to impede the action of the Government in any course which they may deem it to be their duty to take, but we ought, I think, to know whether the withdrawal of these troops at the present time is a measure which has received the sanction of General Cameron. That is the first question which I wish to ask my right hon. Friend; and the second is whether, in the despatch which he sent out intimating it to to be the intention of the Government to withdraw five regiments at once from New Zealand, there are any conditions mentioned which would leave a discretionary power in the matter in the Governor of New Zealand, in General Cameron, or in both together, in the event of their thinking it necessary that the troops should be kept in the colony to meet any emergency that might arise.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply to the hon. Gentleman's Question, said, that a communication bad taken place between Her Majesty's Government and that of France with a view to the modification of the commercial treaty of 1860. In the autumn of last year inquiry was made of the French government whether they were disposed to reduce the duties upon English ribands imported into France. The reply was that the French government did in a
 1754 ad valorem. 1755
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the general question of safety would be among the matters for their deliberation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he must decline to speculate on matters of that sort. The Commission would make a full inquiry, and take whatever time was necessary for the purpose.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that he quite sympathized with the feelings of the passenger who was shut up in a railway carriage, without any means of communicating with the guard or other persons while the circumstances described were occurring; but when the hon. Baronet asked how long it would be before the means of communication would be established between railway passengers and the guards he could not answer the Question. The subject was one which would come before the Commission appointed to inquire into the railway system of travelling, and they would consider what was practicable for securing the  bonâ fide
 MR. COX  said, that having had charge of two of the petitions he wished to say that before he presented them he adopted the same course which he did with all other petitions he was intrusted with—endeavoured, so far as he could, by examination, to see that the signatures were genuine. He thought the Committee ought to have stated the grounds on which they believed these particular signatures were forgeries. It was impossible for a person always to ascertain whether the signatures to petitions he presented were genuine or not.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Why the Men in Devonport Dockyard are not paid in money for the extra hours they work instead of getting holiday time in lieu thereof; what number of hours' extra time the men worked last year, and what holidays they were compelled to take in lieu thereof?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  reminded those hon. Gentlemen who complained of the expenditure that the right hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) in his review of the financial policy of the last twenty years, stated that the war of 1853 was most unfortunate as stirring up the bellicose and turbulent passions of Europe, and thus making a heavy expenditure necessary. It was true that in 1858-9 there was a very moderate budget, with an income tax of  5d. 1798
 COLONEL SYKES  congratulated the noble Marquess upon the lucidity of his statement to-night, and also upon the improvement which had been made in the mode of bringing forward the Estimates, though a good deal still remained to be done. He agreed with the right hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon in what he had said with respect to the £160,000,000 which this Parliament had spent in what was called providing for the defence of the nation. It was not the men he wished to see diminished or their comforts curtailed, but it was the constantly increasing charges incurred in the outlay on fortifications, in the manufacturing establishments for the army and navy, and in the number of officials who were employed and who did not do as much as they ought for the salaries which they received which should be attended to. For years past the House had been asked for lump sums for small arms, guns, and other purposes, but they were never told the quantities that were required, although he had annually complained of the omission. Surely if an estimate could be made of the money that was required, it must be founded upon the number of rifles and cannon that would be wanted. In the French Estimates the numbers and quantities of materials were always given. Why could not the same be done in the British Army Estimates, and then the House would have the means of appreciating the economy with which the work was done. There were, twenty-seven Votes in the present Estimates, but explanations of six of them only were given in the Appendix. The noble Lord had stated that 1,354 native troops now at Shanghai
 1802 1803
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  brought up a Special Report of the Public Petitions Committee, as follows:—
 "Your Committee having further examined the Signatures to the Petitions relating to the case of Prince Azeem Jah, think it right to state that, from information they have received, there are strong grounds for believing that the Signatures of many persons, some of them being resident in the immediate neighbourhood of the Houses of Parliament, which have been attached to the Petition of Inhabitants of the City of Westminster, presented on the 9th instant, are forgeries; they have also reason to suspect that many Signatures to other Petitions on the same subject are fictitious." 1736
 MR. WATKIN  said, with regard to enlisting for the army, various plans had been suggested for its improvement, but he thought one had been overlooked—namely, to take advantage of the love of adventure which was the characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race. There was a portion of the population which were inclined to undertake the duties of the military
 1812
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that he believed that every officer in the army would admit that there were many private soldiers in the service who were just as honourable and trustworthy men as the officers who commanded them. The House was bound to express its opinion on the ten years' enlistment system. The Government might feel obliged to come to that House for pecuniary support for improving the condition of the soldier, and the House ought to be prepared to say that it would be ready to entertain any proposal that contributed to the efficiency of the army, and tended to retain valuable men in the service. He happened to have in his hand a letter from the commanding officer of a regiment in India, who said that the operation of the Ten Years' Act, under existing rules, was heartbreaking. The officer added that he had lost ten sergeants and 120 men this year—men in the prime of their soldiering life, and of excellent character, and next year he should lose an equal number. That was in Central India. They could not resist the temptation of coming home with a free passage to see their friends. This officer expressed an opinion, in which he entirely concurred, that a ready-made soldier was a much more valuable article than a recruit from the loom or the plough, and that he deserved a higher rate of pay. He gave the noble Lord full credit for his desire to improve the condition of the army, and he believed that it was in the power of the military authorities, assisted by the House, to make soldiers the most respectable body of men in the country; so that a man who had served and returned to his native village should be looked upon as a trustworthy person, fit for employment of almost any kind. When a young man entered the army he ought to be certain of obtaining good treatment, a fair measure of education, and, above all, instruction in some trade by which he might be able to support himself when he left the service. After a certain period of service he ought to obtain increased pay and facilities for marriage, and at length should retire from the army with an adequate pension. The suggestion made by the hon. Member (Mr. O'Reilly) the other night to connect the militia with local regiments of the line, was, he thought, very worthy of the attention of the Government. It need not be denied that the army was less ac-
 1795 1796
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  remarked, that if the Inspector General of the Brigade of Guards had not as much duty as he could perform the troops at Colchester might be placed under him.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  wished to ask the Secretary of State what powers the Governors of colonies, whether of New Zealand, the Gold Coast, or anywhere else, had of drawing money from the Treasury chest of this country, without the sanction of the executive Government or the House of Commons? He wished especially to ask this question, as it had been under the consideration of the Committee upon the Auditing of the Public Accounts, whether some of those Governors had not drawn upon the Treasury chest to a considerable extent, without the knowledge of the Home Government? and whether that practice was not going on in New Zealand now? It was through the medium of the Treasury chest that we might get into troublesome wars, and have heavy burdens improperly thrown on the British taxpayers. He wished also to ask the Under Secretary for War, whether it was his intention to lay upon the table any paper relating to the re-organization of the War Department? He wished to know whether there was any intention of establishing an audit in that Department? which he considered to be of great importance.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that the motives and conduct of the hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Charles Forster) were so far above suspicion that it was unnecessary to say anything in his defence. It was, however, unlucky that just as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for West Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) was rising to bring forward his Resolution the hon. Member should have said something so calculated to prejudice the Motion.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he saw no good reason why the colony of Mauritius should be called on to make the additional contribution which the Government was requiring from it. If the inhabitants were left to manage their own police and preserve order in the island they could do so. But the purposes for which the money was applied were Imperial, not colonial; and, moreover, the produce of the island was loaded with heavy duties on entering this country. In the last war, the Mauritius was the theatre of the greatest naval exploits in the eastern seas, of which it was the key; and since it came into our possession it had been of the greatest possible importance to us for retaining the command of a great stream of commerce, and as being in the immediate vicinity of the Isle of Bourbon—a strongly fortified French post. Her Majesty's Government being near the end of this Parliament, and anxious to go to the country on the principle of economy, were throwing as much of their military expenditure as
 1748
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he had presented the petition now under discussion. He regretted that the Committee had not first communicated with him, so that he might have made some further inquiry. Were Members who represented large constituencies expected to ascertain the genuineness of every signature to the petitions they presented? It was a mere question of degree. He looked over the petition, and saw that the usual forms of the House were observed, and he had no reason to believe that any of the signatures were forgeries. If it were held to be a fault on the part of a Member presenting a petition that some signatures were fraudently attached, then the House ought to take some course to protect the Members for large constituencies.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, he had seen the remarks which had appeared in the newspapers referring to this case, but Chief Justice Monahan had not yet submitted any Report to the Government on the subject. The hon. Gentleman had anticipated the Question which was to be put to-morrow by the hon. and gallant Member for Longford, and he hoped on that occasion to be able to give information which he was unable to do at present. But from inquiries which had been made of the High Sheriff he had been informed that there was no partial administration of justice at all. At the petty sessions the magistrates who attended were two Roman Catholics, two Protestants, and two Presbyterians, and they unanimously decided that the Roman Catholics should be sent to trial, and that there was no case against the Protestants. He did not think, therefore, that Chief Justice Monahan was justified in saying that there had been in that case a partial administration of justice.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had made inquiries, and if the hon. Member would ask the Question to-morrow night he would be able to give full information.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  defended the comment made by the right hon. and gallant General on the statement of the hon. Member for Liskeard. The language of the hon. Member implied that there had been an increase of expenditure down to the year 1859, and that from that year it had gone on regularly diminishing. That the statement was founded on a false impression seemed to be proved by the fact that the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the noble Marquess at present congratulated the House and the country on the reduction of the military expenditure to the level of the year 1858-9. They need not, however, then discuss that question, and he thought that too much had already been made of it. There was one point on which he should be glad to receive some explanation, and that was Vote 18, for the administration of the army. He wished to give notice that when they came to discuss that Vote he would ask for some information with regard to the reduction which it was stated had taken place at the War Office. He found that a sum of £110,000 was now asked for the clerks in the War Office, while the Vote on the same account last year was £120,000. There was appended to the Vote a note to the effect that a reorganization of the establishment was at
 1789
 MR. CAVE  said, on Clause 6, that the idea of colonies furnishing ships to the mother country might seem extravagant, hut that during the old French war in the time of Louis XVI., the island of Barbadoes placed a frigate at the disposal of the Crown, and the same example might be followed, if needful, hereafter, by the great and rich colonies we now possessed in other parts of the world.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he wished to ask whether the attention of the President of the Board of Trade has been called to letters in  The Times "Sir—Allow me, by one more example, to call the attention of the public to the urgent need which exists for some means of communication between railway passengers and the guard of the train. I left Oxford last night by the 8.53 train, which runs in at express pace to Paddington, stopping once only, at Reading, on the way. Shortly after leaving Reading we were startled by a sudden bumping of our carriage, as though a spring had broken, or one of the wheels got loose. On looking out of the window we saw that sparks were being thrown off from beneath us, with a strong smell of fire. As the bumping grew more violent, the sparks more numerous, and the smell of fire stronger, we did all in our power by shouting and signalling to attract the attention of the guard. The same alarm was felt and the same signs made all down the train for more than half an hour; but on we were dragged at full speed, in fear every moment of a catastrophe, till we arrived at the terminus. Two gentlemen were injured—one, I fear, broke his arm—in reaching out to make these signals seen. That the danger was not fanciful, but real, will be seen when I add that at the very moment the train reached the station the wheel flew right off, shaking violently the carriage, and knocking to pieces the stonework at the corner of the platform. Of course, such accidents as the giving way of a spring or wheel will sometimes occur. All that I wish to insist upon is this—how easily would all danger have been avoided could we have brought to our assistance the guard of the train, and how serious might have been the consequences had the wheel come right off a few miles sooner. I am, Sir, yours obediently, W. BERKLEY, Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford." 1742
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he wished to know whether the subject of communication between the railway guard and the passengers would come before the Commission?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that though the majority of the House was clearly in favour of going on, yet, as there appeared to he several hon. Gentlemen among the minority who had still observations to make on this Vote, perhaps it would be better to report Progress. The Army Estimates, however, would be taken tomorrow, as the money was wanted.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the final Report of the Committee on the Organization of the War Office was not yet brought in, but he hoped to be able to lay on the table of the House all the Reports in the course of next week.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India,
 1831
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that Mr. Hardy and Mr. Brewer, after making a full inquiry, had recommended that Mr. Morrin should be allowed to continue his publications down to the reign of Charles the First, and that as regarded the volumes he had already published, he should prepare a table of errors and also an index. Both these recommendations were adopted by the Treasury, and Mr. Morrin was at present engaged in preparing the table of errors and the index. But he requested that he should not be required to bring these records down to a lower period than the reign of Charles the First.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the incisure in question was not a part of the Park, and had not been made the subject of any lease or agreement. The persons residing in the neighbourhood were allowed to use the garden on the payment of an annual sum of three guineas, which went to the maintenance of the garden. But no engagement was entered into with them beyond the year for which their subscription was paid.
 MR. HENNBSSY  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice—
 "Whereas the Russian Government shows its determination to set at nought the engagements it contracted in 1815 respecting Poland: Whereas the respect of those engagements was the condition on which the Powers of Europe consented to recognize as lawful the possession by the Russian Tsar of the greatest part of ancient Poland. This House cannot any longer abstain from proclaiming that the violation of those engagements implies the forfeiture by the Tsar of all right to such dominion, and also of all right to any further payment by this country of the annual sum conceded to Russia under the name of the Russo-Dutch Loan, that payment having been, in 1815, undertaken to be made during the space of one-hundred years, in consideration of Russia faithfully co-operating in the maintenance of the stipulations of the same Treaty of 1815." 1832 1833 "Russia, Great Britain, Austria, and Prussia, the Allied Powers, who were parties to the Treaty of Chaumont, in consideration, therefore, not of the union of the Belgian provinces to Holland, but of arrangements concluded among themselves, renounced all claims to the repayment of the expenses incurred in the deliverance of the said provinces in favour of one of these Powers exclusively—namely, of Russia.…Now, what were the arrangements between the Powers who were parties to the Treaty of Chaumont, at the period at which the Convention of the 19th of May, 1815, was concluded at London? They were the general arrangements of the Congress of Vienna, which had just then terminated. In consideration of the facilities which Russia afforded to these arrangements, her allies ceded to her all the pecuniary pretensions to which the deliverance of the Belgian provinces had given rise. It necessarily followed that these facilities were real and important, as they were made the gound of her liberation from a considerable debt…The divers arrangements of the Congress of Vienna, by which Russia acquired the pretensions above-mentioned, remain in all their force, notwithstanding the present position of Belgium. Upon what ground, then, could Russia be deprived of the compensation at which these arrangements have been valued to her?" "The course which the Government of Russia adopted towards Poland was a complete and decided violation of the Treaties of Vienna. The
 1834 Hansard, 1835 1836 "If the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hennessy) asks me whether in my opinion Russia has, in point of fact, not forfeited the right which by the Treaty of Vienna she obtained to Poland, because she has not fulfilled the corresponding engagements imposed on her by that treaty, I should be very much disposed to agree with him; but I say it would be undignified for this House formally to pronounce an opinion unless this House was prepared to follow it up by an Address to the Crown to give effect to the declaration which they had made."—[3  Hansard, 1837 1838 "I am not speaking as the representative of any party. I am speaking my own opinion, and lam sure, in speaking that opinion, I am speaking the opinion of every wise and temperate man in this country and on the continent of Europe. I feel that it is a duty that every person who is placed in a position where his voice can be heard, should raise his voice in denouncing injustice, tyranny, and oppression. To commit injustice is a crime; to treat it with silence is to participate in the criminality; and that must be my justification for the course I have taken."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. WHITE  said, he would be glad to hear that the recommendations of the Committee were not to be carried out by the Government. The recommendations of the Select Committee of last Session, presided over by the hon. Member for Bradford, were three—
 "First, that the Board of Trade should be put more on an equality with the Foreign Office, so as to give its opinions greater weight, and that its chief should always be a Member of the Cabinet; secondly, that the Board of Trade should be put in direct communication with the diplomatic and consular services; thirdly, that an officer or officers should be appointed in the Foreign Office to conduct its correspondence with the Board of Trade." 1866 1867 1868 laissez faire et laissez alter. 1869 1870 1871 "It is undesirable that English manufacturers should be compelled to make in Parliament, or through the press, such public expression of their wishes as tends to their defeat by foreign manufacturers." 1872 5d. 1873
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  thought that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bradford deserved general thanks for having proposed this Committee, which had had the valuable effect of disabusing the public mind of the impression that sufficient attention was not paid to commercial interests by the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade. He had been a member of three Committees having reference to this subject—first, of one on the Consular Service; next on the Diplomatic Service; and of this Committee also. The commercial men of the country came before the last two Committees with a strong impression that their interests were not attended to by our Consuls and diplomatic agents; that Consuls were too busy looking after their fees, and that Ministers and Ambassadors were men who amused themselves at foreign Courts, and cared nothing for commercial matters. But the evidence showed that they were entirely mistaken; there was really no substantial accusation against the services, and he believed that the gentlemen who came up to give evidence left the Committee with the conviction that there was no foundation for the blame which had been cast on them. He had been an attaché for seven years, and any man who knew anything of the diplomatic service would agree with him that the gentlemen composing it took a deep interest in the commercial affairs of the country. He appealed to the noble Viscount opposite whether, if any Ambassador, or Minister, or Consul, were to show any dislike to take up commercial matters, he, or Lord Clarendon, or Lord Malmesbury, or Earl Russell, or any of the Foreign Secretaries, would not have told him directly that he was not fit for his place. One of the best innovations ever made in the Foreign Office was when the Secretaries of Legation were directed to make their annual commercial Reports to the Foreign Office; but one of the gentlemen who came before the Committee acknowledged that he had never known, nor did he think that his Chamber of Commerce knew of their existence. Some of the witnesses complained of delay in these matters, but it was evident that the Foreign Office must be responsible for choosing the
 1890 mollia tempora fandi
 MR. CHEETHAM  concurred with the hon. Member for Horsham in thinking that the step taken in this matter was in the wrong direction, and that the proper course would have been to strengthen the Board of Trade, instead of transferring the burden to the Foreign Office. Our Consuls abroad should be taught that their chief was not a political but a commercial chief. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), and the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White), seemed to think that the manufacturers of this country wished Her Majesty's Government to go
 1900
 MR. PEEL  said, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the Treasury was anxious that the Civil Service Estimates should be presented at as early a period of the Session as possible; but it should be remembered that they were divided into a large number of Classes, each Class comprising a great number of Votes, and each Vote a great number of items. These Estimates had of late years been presented much earlier than they were some years ago, the whole being laid on the table during the month of March. With regard to the Votes on Account, he must observe that what had just been complained of arose from the complaints of hon. Members of the practice of paying the expenses of different Departments of the Civil Service out of balances from previous Votes. Those balances were now surrendered year by year, and a Vote on account was necessary to enable the Treasury to meet expenses as they arose. He was not aware, however, of any difference between the course pursued this year and that pursued last year.
 COLONEL DICKSON  did not see why there should be so much objection to this Bill. He thought, however, the Bill should include the clerks of unions and the medical officers.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was ready to let the Bill pass the second reading, but he hoped it would he rendered intelligible, and that the Committee should be put off to a distant day.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he could not join in the regret of the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave) that the Motion had been brought forward, inasmuch as it afforded an opportunity of renewing the protest they had made on former occasions against the wrongs of Poland and the
 1848
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  thought it was right to give pensions to Poor Law Officers of the various Unions in Ireland, but he thought that this Bill was not so good a Bill as that which was introduced two years ago. He thought that the certainty of a pension, as was proposed to be given under the former Bill, would enable them to get a good class of officers; but under the present Bill the granting a pension was made optional, and he did not think that the mere chance of a pension would have that effect. The first clause of this Bill defined the officers who were to receive pensions as those who devoted their whole time to the business of the union. This would shut out most of the clerks of the Boards of Guardians, which would have an injurious effect. He should vote in favour of the second reading of the Bill, but he hoped that in Committee the first clause would be altered so as to include the clerks of unions.
 MR. AYRTON  was of opinion that the matter adverted to was of great importance and deserved the serious consideration of metropolitan Members, for the condition of the metropolis in respect to police arrangements was of an extraordinary kind. It was many years since the experiment of the Metropolitan Police began by the substitution in a few parishes of policemen for the parish watch-
 1902 1903 1904
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  rose to order. He wished to know whether the hon. and gallant Member for Longford, in putting his question, was justified in moving the adjournment of the House?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the Civil Service Estimates will be laid upon the table. He must complain that, notwithstanding the distinct recommendations of Committees and the remonstrance of individual Members, the Civil Service Estimates were always kept back to a much later period than those affecting the Naval and Military Services, Class 6 of the Civil Service Estimates had, indeed, been issued that morning, but there was no appearance of any of the other Classes. The Vote on Account, also, which it was intended to ask for, was in a novel form, for it did not disclose towards which of the Classes the Vote on account was to be applied.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he should confine himself in the observations which he was about to make to replying to the questions which had been put to him by his hon. Friend the Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster), leaving it to his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade to vindicate his own Department. He should not attempt to reconcile the various conflicting opinions of the hon. Gentleman and his mercantile friends in the House. So far as he could see, scarcely any two
 1874 1875 laches; 1876 London Gazette, London Gazette 1877 1878 1879 1880 "That an officer or officers be appointed in the Foreign Office to conduct its correspondence with the Board of Trade." "His Lordship directs that a new division shall be created under the denomination of the com-
 1881 1882
 SIR CHARLES WOOD,  in reply, said, he would do so when he made his financial statement.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought that this would probably be almost the last occasion upon which the cause of Poland would be brought forward in that House; because that cause had become so hopeless that our warm expression of sympathy for that country might, as had been truly said, do more harm than good to that unhappy nation, He begged to point out to his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the King's County, that a fundamental fallacy had run through the whole of his arguments on this subject. He invokes the aid of this country in favour of the maintenance of the Treaty of Vienna; but, at the same time, he must be aware now that the Poles would be far from accepting the provisions of that treaty. When he visited the country himself some two or three years ago he happened to arrive just at the time when the Count De Lambert, a most intelligent and benevolent-minded gentleman, had been sent there charged with a mission by the Emperor conciliating the Poles. He was ready to do anything which could
 1850
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to explain that when he had given notice of the question he had put yesterday he had not been aware that a similar notice had previously been given by the hon. and gallant Member for Longford. If he had been aware of the fact he certainly should not have anticipated the hon. and gallant Gentleman.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, as the question which he wished to put was one of considerable importance, and it would be necessary to refer to certain statements made by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland in reply to an hon. Member last night, he would, with the permission of the House, make a few remarks by way of introduction, and to put himself in order, he should conclude by moving the adjournment of the House. It appeared that at the County of Down Assizes certain persons were charged with having been engaged in a riot. The riot had taken place between Protestants and Roma Catholics, and the men of one party only had been made amenable to justice. The statement given in  The Times "One of the witnesses, who said that his son had been beaten and struck with a stone, was asked why he did not tell the magistrates at the time, to which he answered,' I did; but the magistrates don't want to hear any but one side of the case.' On this the Judge remarked, 'It is very like it, upon my word.' The jury acquitted the prisoners. In his charge his Lordship said, 'They had now heard the whole case, and he must say that he was very much disgusted with the way in which justice was administered in the county of Down. Both parties should have been arrested, and there should have been an investigation. Certainly, those who used guns should have been found out and put upon their trial. The charge against the men in the dock was that they were guilty of illegal assembly and were present as rioters. He was only sorry that he had not enough of both parties before him—the ringleaders, and if the jury would only do their duty and find a whole lot of both sides guilty he would then know how to deal with them…He would only say that he should take the earliest opportunity of informing the Government of this case and asking for an inquiry. As far as he could gather from the evidence it was a gross perversion of duty on the part of those who sent the traversers for trial. If they expected to have peace in the county when matters were conducted in this way it was utterly impossible.'" "Chief Justice Monahan had not yet submitted any Report to the Government on the subject. The hon. Gentleman had anticipated the question which was to be put to-morrow by the hon. and gallant Member for Longford, and he hoped on that occasion to be able to give information which he was unable to do at present."—[3  Hansard, 1826 "He did not think, therefore, that Chief Justice Monahan was justified in saying that there had been in that case a partial administration of justice."—[ Ibid.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that he had listened attentively to the debate and he found that no less than four different remedies had been suggested for the evils which were supposed to exist. The hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) thought that the commercial business with foreign countries should be transacted by the Board of Trade. The hon. Baronet who spoke last (Sir S. Northcote) thought the Foreign Office should have to deal with such matters. The hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard) preferred the Foreign Office together with the Board of Trade; while the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) thought that such business should not be managed by the Government at all. As to the last he understood the right hon. Gentleman to mean that the Government ought to have nothing to do in connection with such subjects; and the hon. Baronet who had just sat down appeared to hold in a modified degree the same opinion. The fact was those hon. Gentlemen had fixed their minds too exclusively upon the one question of commercial treaties; but there were many other questions connected with trade to which no allusions, or only cursory allusions, had been made. For instance, the navigation laws involved questions which the Board of Trade had to deal with in respect to treaties with other countries, quite irrespective of interests more properly belonging to the cognizance of the Foreign Office. Trademarks, too, fell more or less under the attention of the Board of Trade, and as indeed it would be impossible to make a department for every separate question of this kind it was well to have a heterogeneous department like the Board of Trade to gather up all these miscellaneous questions, and he did not see how such miscellaneous duties could be thrown upon the Foreign Office. Some reference had been made to Chambers of Commerce and to merchants in a spirit which he did not think was quite
 1888 how 1889
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he believed it was time that there should be a Committee to revise all those old Acts of Parliament.
 MR. WHALLEY  explained that he had not complained of the magistrates, but simply mentioned what they had stated.
 MR. WHALLEY  thought that before the Home Secretary listened to any suggestions for extending the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Police, he ought to take into account the fact that the army of police exercised such a terrorism over the magistrates who administered justice in the metropolitan districts, that those gentlemen, having repeatedly remonstrated in vain against the arbitrary conduct of the force, had abandoned in despair the attempt to stand between the police and the public. Any extension of the metropolitan police was as opposed to the feeling of the public as it was hostile to the spirit of the Constitution, and it was essential, before any further expenditure was sanctioned for that object, that additional securities should be taken for the prevention of the abuses to which he had referred.
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, he quite agreed that it was not consistent with the dignity of Parliament to be continually expressing a useless sympathy with Poland. There appeared to him to be something humiliating in the spectacle when the struggle was over, during which England had refused to draw the sword on behalf of a gallant and suffering nation, that we should content ourselves with puting on record a fruitless expression of sympathy. For that reason he regretted that the subject had again been brought before the House, and he should have allowed the Motion to be withdrawn, as it probably would be, without taking any part in the discussion, had it not been that the noble Lord at the head of the Government had taken credit to himself and the Government for having acted in the way in which the sympathizers of Poland desired them to act—that they had used diplomatic action in favour of Poland, and that action had, unhappily, been unsuccessful. The noble Lord mistook the recommendations of the hon. Member for the King's County, and the other friends of Poland, who did not want that kind of sympathy. What they did want was, not that England should draw the sword, but, by diplomatic action, if possible, to induce Austria to allow her Gallicism provinces to go free. It was proposed that England and France, in return for the cession of the Gallician provinces,
 1849 casus belli,
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that this was not the only Bill before the House for increasing the burden of Irish taxation, and supported the recommendation for postponing the present measure. The Poor Law Commissioners would not practically act as a corrective of unnecessary superannuation. He would limit the superannuation to men after twenty years of service, but should like to do away with superannuations altogether as leading to improvidence on the part of expectant recipients.
 MR. BLAKE  said, if this Bill were read a second time, there was nothing to prevent the pensions of the clerks and medical officers being hereafter thrown on the Consolidated Fund. He thought the Bill would have this good effect, that it would induce many old officers to retire, who were unable from age effectively to perform their duties.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the House had reserved to its Members the right of moving the adjournment.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he thought that in common fairness the Bill ought to be postponed until the Finance Committee had made their Report, He objected to the Bill. Optional modes of taxation were practically obligatory, and he much feared that the guardians would put in force the power of superannuation. The permissive form of the Bill was simply delusive, and he strongly maintained that this measure should be postponed until the Bill of the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) had come before the House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the House had over and over again decided in favour of the superannuation principle, which had worked admirably. If he had any objection to the Bill it was that it did not go far enough. He hoped the Bill would have the support of the majority of Irish Members.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the House had no doubt been very much amused by the statement of the Chief Secretary for Ireland; but he ventured to think that it was the duty of the right hon. Baronet to inform the House that if the Act was such as he described it, it ought to be repealed. The man was begging from house to house.
 MR. HENNESSY : That was evidently out of the question. The man was convicted as a vagrant, and sentenced to seven years' penal servitude. The people of Ireland were aware that there were different laws for the treatment of the poor in their country and in England, and they would find with surprise that the right hon. Baronet, in alluding to a transaction of that description, had not thought proper to express any condemnation of the law, but had merely made it the subject of a joke. In the absence of any intimation of the intentions of the Government upon that subject, he wished to give notice that he would move for leave to bring in a Bill to repeal the Act in question.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that after the debate which had taken place, he would not press the Motion to a division.
 MR. MAGUIRE  supported the Bill, and was glad to see the right hon. Baronet pressing on the House so useful a measure.
 MR. HASSARD  asked, if the medical officer devoted his spare time to following the practice of his profession generally, he would be excluded from the benefit of the Bill?
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the part of Hyde Park behind Apsley House, shut off from the rest of the Park, and used as a garden, is leased, or may at once be opened for the use of the public?
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of the Treasury, If Mr. Morrin has been empowered, in accordance with the recommendations of the Report of Messrs. Brewer and Hardy, to continue the publication of the Patent and Close
 1830
 MR. LOWE : Before my right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade replies to the question put to him, it may be convenient that I should urge the view that has strongly taken possession of my mind, and which has been shadowed forth in some degree by the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall). The Board of Trade—of which I speak with some knowledge, having been Vice President for two years and a half—may be said to possess two separate jurisdictions—its common-law and its statutory jurisdiction, The latter consists of a number of duties relating to merchant shipping, railways, and other matters, which have been thrown upon it by a succession of statutes. These are matters of detail, requiring, no doubt, knowledge, discretion, and ability, but they are not of the first rank in public business. Besides this, the Board of Trade has its common-law jurisdiction, which consists in being called upon to advise the Departments of the Government on matters relating to trade and commerce. There is besides the statistical department, which might nearly as well belong to any other civil branch of the public service. That is a rough account of the duties of the Board. As to the consultative department of the Board, it no doubt had its origin in an age that was barbarous in matters. It arose at a time described by Evelyn, when the Government of Charles II. were afraid that the American colonies would take the course adopted by them 100 years afterwards, and throw off their connection with the mother country. It was established at a time when it was a received axiom of political science that it was the duty of Government to regulate, protect, and promote the trade of its own country, and the Board of Trade was considered to be the depository of that kind of lore, such as it was, by which the action of the Government was regulated. Now, of course, we know that no task would be more difficult, if not impossible, than to advise the Government well on such subjects. It was, however, no wonder, when trade was considered to be a sort of political mystery, that it was considered necessary to set aside a master of that political science to advise the Government on those matters. When the Government condescended to regulate what a man was to
 1862 1863 1864 summum bonum 1865
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the reply of his right hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the questions of the hon. Member for Bradford was so complete that he should not have thought it necessary to address the House, but that not to do so might be considered a want of respect, as he had been so frequently referred to in the course of the debate. If the discussion had been confined strictly to the question raised by the hon. Member for Bradford, and if right hon. and hon. Members had not travelled into a vast deal of irrelevant matter, the discussion would have been limited within much narrower bounds. What really was the question raised? The hon. Gentleman asked what had been done in consequence of the inquiry instituted by him last Session into the relations between the Board of Trade and the Foreign Office; and the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs told him, in reply, that the recommendations the Committee had made after a full inquiry had been exactly, or, at all events, very nearly carried out. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs also said—
 "Having carried out the recommendations of the Committee, let us give the experiment a fair trial, so that we may see whether the new arrangement adopted for carrying on the relations between the Board of Trade and the Foreign Office is successful or not." 1893 1894 1895 ad valorem 1896 1897
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that he had read the Report of the Committee with the greatest attention, and he bad also read a great portion of the evidence; but he did not altogether agree with the conclusions to which they had come. With the first recommendation of the Committee—that of placing the President of the Board of Trade on an equality with the other Ministers of the Crown, and making him at all times a Member of the Cabinet—he entirely agreed; but he had looked in vain for any evidence to support the second one, that the Board of Trade should be placed in direct communication with the members of the consular and diplomatic service through the Foreign Office. The President of the Bradford Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Ripley, absolutely and repeatedly declined to give any opinion upon the subject. Mr. Behrens, a merchant of the same town, said that the only office that could be responsible was the Foreign Office. Mr. Allhusen, a merchant of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, handed in a long memorial from the Chamber of Commerce of that place, but it contained not a word as to whether the responsibility should rest with the Board of Trade or with the Foreign Office. Mr. Akroyd, of Halifax, formerly a Member of that House, said that he should like to see a Minister of Commerce, but that he ought to be at the Foreign Office. One merchant, Mr. Ash-worth, the President of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, certainly appeared to lean towards the Board of Trade. His answer was a very peculiar one, but those who had experience of the conciliatory manner of the President of that Board, and knew how courteous a reception he gave to any gentleman who approached him, could easily account for its language, Mr. Ashworth said—
 1859 "We have hitherto had very familiar intercourse with the Board of Trade; the directors whenever they come to London are always welcome there. If they go to the Board of Trade to ask for information they find every freedom of access and familiarity there; they are always well received. But I do not know a man who ever went to the Foreign Office except upon a deputation; I do not myself know any individual in the Foreign Office beyond the hon. Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs himself." "Do you think that it would be more advantageous to keep the power of negotiation in the hands of the Foreign Office, and to give no Executive power to the Board of Trade? I think it would be much more desirable to keep the power of negotiating in all such matters as those to which the honourable Chairman has referred in the hands of the Foreign Office. Upon what do you base that opinion? My reason is, that I think the work would be done with more promptitude; and if those negotiations were entirely in the hands of the Foreign Office our diplomatists abroad would necessarily in their training be obliged to gain a knowledge of commercial affairs which would be very useful to this country, and they would, consequently, be much more competent to deal with those questions than they are now." 1860 "As a general rule, I should say that recommendations emanating publicly from our own commercial bodies must afford very disadvantageous grounds for the Foreign Office in attempting to move other Governments to reduce their tariffs. I can understand that our diplomatists abroad might, in a quiet way, by keeping foreign Governments well informed of the benefit which a free trade policy has conferred, not only on the prosperity of our people, but (what is still more precious to rulers) on the interests of the public revenue, induce them from motives of self-interest to follow our example; but from the moment that it is known that our diplomacy is set in motion by our Chambers of Commerce to urge a reduction in the tariffs of other countries, it places foreign Governments, which are generally more enlightened and disinterested on economical questions than their people, in the disadvantageous position of appearing to move under foreign influence for the benefit of aliens; and thus the most seductive arguments are furnished to the Protectionists, who can appeal to the prejudices and even to the patriotism of the people, in defence of what they call the rights of native industry. I have, whenever an opportunity has offered, expressed these views to the members of our Chambers of Commerce." 1861
 MR. SCULLY : I quite agree with the hon. Gentleman that the practice is irregular; but the fact is power is so irregularly exercised here that we are shut out on ordinary occasions, and have irregularly to avail ourselves of irregular Motions made by irregular Gentlemen like the hon. and gallant Member. I have only to repeat that as coshering and doing nothing is an irregular offence, the political Tories and rapparees who occupy the Government Benches ought to be tried and convicted for that crime.
 MR. SCULLY : I beg to say a few words in reference to the speech of the Chief Secretary for Ireland—for whom, everyone knows, I entertain the greatest possible respect. But I think he treated this question of the hon. and gallant Member for Longford (Colonel Greville) with less than the respect it was entitled to, because he gave it the go-by altogether. In the statement which he made last night the right hon. Baronet actually snubbed the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, Now, I venture to say that he has come across a very ugly customer when he attempts to snub that learned Judge. And I further venture to say that the Chief Justice did not make the statement which he is reported to have made without knowing why he made it; and I think that if the Chief Secretary for Ireland knew his
 1829
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he proposed to introduce four alterations into this Bill; one with regard to the reduction of the per-centage from 45 to 25; another relating to the reduction of the number of years from twenty-five years to ten; a third with respect to the bankruptcy of banks under this Act; and a fourth providing that the privileges permitted to banks beyond the limits of forty-five miles, should not give them any power of issue within the forty-five miles.
 MR. COX  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the large increase in the amount now paid by the metropolis for Police Rate; and to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to what purpose such increased payment is applied. A rate was generally supposed to mean the levying of a sum of money having regard to two circumstances—first, the amount of money required, and next, the amount of property upon which it was to be levied. Unfortunately that was not the mode adopted for the metropolis with reference to the police rate, but it was an arbitrary rate, and the inhabitants were bound to raise the sum demanded, whether the amount produced was required or not. He would call attention to the Act of Parliament under which the police rate was levied in the Metropolis, because the case turned entirely on the words of the Act.
 1901 "That the Sum to be paid for the Purposes of the Police under this Act shall not exceed in the whole in any one Tear the rate of Eightpence in the Pound on the full and fair annual Value of all Property rateable for the Relief of the Poor within such Parish, Township, Precinct, or Place, such full and fair annual Value to be computed according to the last Valuation for the Time being acted upon in assessing the County Rate." 6d. d.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he rose to ask, What steps, if any, Her Majesty's
 1851 1852 1853 1854 1855 
 "1. That the Board of Trade be placed more nearly upon an equality with the Foreign Office than it is at present, in order that its opinion, when asked, may have due weight, and that its chief be always a Member of the Cabinet. "2. That the Board of Trade be put in direct communication with the members of the diplomatic and consular services, and that such communication be carried on through the Foreign Office, with such provisions as shall prevent collision. Lastly, that an officer or officers be appointed in the Foreign Office to conduct its correspondence with the Board of Trade." 1856 1857 1858
 MR. POLLARD -URQUHART  also urged that further time should be given for consideration of the Bill on the ground that this was not a time for unnecessarily increasing the burdens of Ireland.
 MR. BAINES  said, he would not enter into the general question, but confine himself to two points in the discussion. In the first place, he should regard it as a great calamity if it should go forth to the public that in the opinion of such high authorities as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), and the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote), and in the opinion of the House of Commons, or a considerable number of that Assembly, the Government of this country had no interests to attend to in respect of trade. He was afraid that the tendency of the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman and the hon. Baronet would be to convey an impression that there existed in the House of Commons a feeling that the Government ought not to concern itself in the bringing about of commercial treaties or in making efforts with foreign countries to give greater facilities for trade. As a thorough Free Trader he quite agreed with them in deprecating the old system of making commercial treaties by which there was a higgling for the balance of advantages. But the commercial treaties concluded of late years were very different from the old commercial treaties. Let
 1891 laissez faire 1892
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not tell what the magistrates might have said to the hon. Member; but in the discharge of their public duties in their courts they were constantly reported as expressing the opinion that for one case in which they had to find fault with the police—and they certainly did not spare them when they were to blame—there were ten cases in which they spoke of the admirable manner in which the police acted. To state that the magistrates were influenced by a terror of the police was to cast a most undeserved reflection upon them. The hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Cox) had correctly stated the principles and regulations under which the police rate was raised. The increase in the rate arose from the increase in the number of houses and streets which daily took place, and also from the new assessment which had lately come into operation. The increased rental of the metropolis was £1,978,000, about one-half of which arose from the new assessment, and the other half from the increased number of houses. There had been a difficulty experienced in getting men to enter the force; and some of their best men had been anxious to enter the City Police, whose pay was somewhat higher. It had therefore been requisite to increase the pay of the sergeants and constables 2s. 6d., 1s.  6d., 1906
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would not now enter into any discussion as to whether the City and the Metropolitan Police should be amalgamated. He must, however, say that he thought he had some
 1905
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  rose to second the Motion, and said he would repeat what he had often said in that House, that the Polish struggle was one of the darkest pages in the history of the world. Posterity would look back with shame upon this generation, because we had not marched from all parts of Europe eastward to prevent the consummation of the greatest modern crime which had been committed among civilized nations. It was a crime which had not only brought misfortune on all those countries which had participated in the spoils, but evil to the whole of Europe, and until Poland was restored and justice done to that gallant and noble nation there would be no hope of permanent peace and tranquillity in any European State. There would still be a body of men in Poland who would seize the first opportunity of any disturbance in Europe, and naturally endeavour to gain back that country which they had lost by spoliation. It was impossible to forget, when speaking of Poland, that Russia had followed a similar course with reference to Circassia. She had seized the inhabitants and landed them on the shores of Turkey, and introduced Russians in their place. In every direction Russia had proved herself an aggressive Power; but he believed the day would come when Russia herself would feel the consequence of her recent and present course of action, and when every Russian would feel it a matter of
 1839
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would beg to second the Motion for adjournment, but he must be permitted to observe that on a night like this when Supply was on the paper, and hon. Members had, therefore, an opportunity of calling attention to questions in which they felt an interest, his hon. and gallant Friend had departed from the usual course. Instead of simply asking a question, his hon. and gallant Friend had anticipated the proper time for bringing on this subject by moving the adjournment of the House.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, what I stated last night—and the House, I feel certain, will confirm me in the statement—was that I had that morning seen the High Sheriff of the county, who informed me that when this case came before the Petty Sessions there were upon the Bench two
 1827 Anne "For the more effectual suppressing Tories and Rapparees, and for preventing persons becoming Tories, or resorting to them." "All loose, idle vagrants, and such as pretend to be Irish gentlemen and will not work, nor betake themselves to any honest trade or livelihood, but wander about demanding victuals, and coshering from house to house among their fosterers, followers, and others, shall, upon the presentment of the grand jury, be sent to trial." 1828
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Pardon me; he was not begging from house to house, but was levying black mail on the inhabitants of the district, and forcing them to supply him with victuals.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he believed the principle of superannuation was now universally admitted. He should have preferred his former Bill, because it dealt with the subject in a more liberal spirit; but after the course of legislation in England he did not see how they could refuse to apply the
 1908
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in answer to the questions put to him, that the Bill related to servants of unions who had devoted their whole time to the service; that included the master, the mistress, the schoolmaster, and the paid nurse. Those officers who had not devoted their whole time to the duties required of them would not receive superannuation. In reply to another question he begged to say that, if desired, he should not object to introduce a clause giving superannuation to officers who were incapacitated by infirmity.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that having listened to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State, he was surprised that he did not support the Resolution which he (Sir Staf-
 1883 1884 au fait 1885 1886 1887
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay upon the table the Report of the Committee which has been inquiring into the organization of the War Office?
 MR. CAVE  regretted that the question of Poland was again brought forward for discussion in the House, and he should be still more sorry if such a Motion as this were carried. He remembered being in Italy in 1852, when an English, or rather Irish traveller, a Mr. Mather, was wounded in Florence by an Austrian officer. The affair caused a considerable sensation at the time, and the British Consul at Leghorn said to him (Mr. Cave), "I hope they won't ask for money; the impression is so general on the continent that any insult or injury to an Englishman may be atoned for by money." In that case they did ask for money and got it, though not quite so much as they demanded. He was sure the hon. Member's Motion was not meant in that sense, but that he wanted to punish Russia, rather than to relieve England of this payment; and no doubt there was abstract justice in his proposal. But, in like manner, Spain received a large sum from England on condition of putting an end to the slave trade, and it had frequently been proposed that she should be compelled to refund it. It had been always answered, however, and he thought justly, that this was a somewhat low view of the question, and, moreover, would deprive us of the right of future remonstrance or action. He had probably seen as much of Poland as
 1840 "Europe's bulwark 'gainst the Ottomite," "Impius have tarn culta novalia miles habebit, Barbarus has segetes." 1841 Va metis! coup d' êtat, 1842 1843
 MR. BAZLEY  considered that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne, and also those of the hon. Member for Brighton, might be urged with greater effect against any other Department of the Government than the Board of Trade. As one of the Committee, he regretted that their conclusions were not in strict conformity with his own views upon the subject. He considered that they should strengthen the Board of Trade, so as to render that Department capable of taking cognizance of the whole commercial enterprise of the Empire, and become what it ought to be, the great organ of industry in this country. The Board of Trade should not confine its functions to railways merely or works of a similar kind; it should either change its name or become the great organ of the industry of the country. Why should they not have an Agricultural Department connected with the Departments of Trade and Commerce. The Board of Trade, as now constituted, was a very useful Department, and obtained a vast amount of very useful information, and it might be made much more useful if its constitution would admit of it.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he thought that the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) had scarcely contemplated that the question which he had raised would have opened up such complicated and difficult questions as those they were now discussing. Of the three recommendations which were made by the Committee which inquired into this subject two were of some importance and the third was of trifling consequence. It was with the third only that the Foreign Office had made any attempt to grapple; and he must say that the measure which they had adopted to meet the just complaint of the mercantile body was a mere delusion. That complaint of the merchants was that great delay and inconvenience arose out of the communications between the Foreign Office and the Board of Trade. What were these communications? Despatches relating to political matters were sent to the Under Secretary of State for the political department, and commercial matters were forwarded to the Board of Trade. Instead of these despatches going to the political department, it appeared that they were now to go to a special division in the Foreign Office, and to be by them forwarded to the Board of Trade. Instead of giving increased facility, this would very often he the cause of increased delay. It was the merest clerk's works to send these despatches from the political department to this commercial department of the Foreign Office, to be by them forwarded to the Board of Trade. If nothing but that had been done, it was the greatest sham in the world, and all the old evils would exist unchecked under such a system. A much larger question, however, had been opened up in the debate. A general feeling had been expressed that the consultative department of the Board of Trade ought to be done away with, and that a similar department in the Foreign Office ought to be substituted. He was sorry he could not agree with the views expressed by his hon. Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) and other Members
 1898 1899
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I entirely agree with the hon. Member 'who has just sat down (Mr. Cave) in regretting that the hon. Gentleman the Member for the King's County should have thought it his duty again to bring this subject under the disoussion of the House. I do ample justice to the honourable sentiments by which the hon. and learned Member is actuated in favour of Poland, and to the perseverance with which he has endeavoured to obtain from the House an expression of opinion favourable to the view which he has adopted. Still I cannot help thinking that on the present occasion he has not exhibited as much judgment as might have been expected from him. The subject of Poland has been repeatedly discussed in this House. Now, it appears to me that there is a rule which ought to be observed in bringing grave subjects forward for disoussion. A Motion of this nature ought only to be put upon the paper for the purpose of obtaining from the House once and for all a decisive expression of opinion which may have the effect of influencing events, or if the occasion should justify it, of obtaining from the Government some action with a view to giving effect to the opinion which such Motion at the same time endeavours to extract from the House. Now, with reference to the first point, this subject has been repeatedly discussed in this House. The hon. and learned Gentleman has himself this evening quoted opinions expressed on occasions similar to the present; so that as far as a deliberate expression of opinion as to the conduct of Russia towards Poland is concerned, nothing can be added to what is already contained in the records of Parliamentary proceedings, and any mere repetition of similar expressions following the others in less decided and more general terms tends rather to weaken instead of strengthening what has been done before, I think, therefore, that inasmuch as the object of the hon. Gentleman is to obtain from the House a condemnation of the conduct of Russia towards Poland, he would have better consulted the interests of the country whose wrongs he deplores by allowing the matter to rest upon the recorded debates and discussions of the House, instead of weakening his cause by affording opportunity to the unjust inference that by the way in which this
 1844 1845 1846 1847
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for
 1921
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that he had no objection to lay on the table the Report, or rather the substance of the Reports, made by the officers commanding the Rifle Battalions so soon as they were all received. At present, however, Reports had only come in from four or five out of the eight battalions armed with Whitworth rifles, and if these were produced before the others were ready, an imperfect view might possibly be given of the efficiency of the weapon.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he should be glad to know when the remainder of those Reports would be received.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he could not tell.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that only one contract had been entered into with this Company, of which a copy was laid on the table that evening. The contract was for the two services, and being terminable at six months' notice, had no clause suspending it until it had been one month before the House.
 MR. LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire, Whether he intends to introduce, during the present Session of Parliament, a general Road Bill for Scotland; and, if so, when?
 MR. DAWSON  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Sir Hervey Bruce), he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he does not consider it would be advisable to give to the Constabulary, instead of the Excise, directions to prosecute such persons as shoot or sell game without a certificate or licence, as they have better means of obtaining information than the Excise, and already perform the duties of Revenue Police as regards spirits and fishery licenses?
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  said, that he rose to call the attention of the House to the possibility of a war with America, and to the absence of guns capable of protecting our coasts from the aggressions of a maritime power. It appeared to him that this country was not in a state to meet the occurrence of a war. It was a most dangerous thing to be without preparation. If they looked back to the last American war they would find that the disasters which happened were entirely caused by want of preparation. We had not ships, we had not guns, we had not crews to cope with those of the Americans. The consequence was that we lost frigate after frigate in the early part of the war, and the desertions of our sailors to the Americans were numerous. Just when the war was ending things were brought to the state of organization in which they ought to have been at the commencement. Look again at the difficulties with which Wellington had to contend at the time of the Peninsular war for want of preparation at home; if it had not been for the gigantic energy of the man the difficulties interposed might have proved almost insuperable. Wellington, at the end of the war, left an army complete in every department, such as England had probably never seen before, and which was admirable for the construction of its commissariat and of its waggon train. But
 1925 Kearsage, 1926 1927
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I do not rise for the purpose of following the hon. Members for Bristol (Mr. Berkeley) and Maldon (Mr. Peacocke) into the consideration of the probability of this country entering into a war with America. I listened with great interest to the debate which took place the other night upon the defences of Canada, and it seemed to me that most of the speakers who addressed the House did so with a due sense of responsibility upon them, and admitted, as we must all admit, that, while there is a possibility of our being engaged in a war with America, the probability of such a misfortune is very remote indeed. I do not think it necessary, therefore, to follow the arguments of the hon. Member who first spoke to-night (Mr. Berkeley). There is only one part of the subject to which I think it necessary to make any reference. The hon. Member repeated the complaints which he made last year—namely, that the Artillery Volunteers of this country are only armed and drilled with 18 and 24-pounder guns, and he repeated very correctly the answer which was given to him last year, and which it seems to me is a good answer this year. That answer is, that it is necessary that the Artillery Volunteers practise and learn their drill in the localities where they reside. Where no batteries exist they are erected, and the guns and ammunition are sent to them for the purpose of instruction only. In case of war, the Artillery Volunteers would be moved to any works where their presence might be required, and it by no means follows that they would use the guns now in their possession. In fact, it is certain such would not be the case. The hon. Member also says our coast defences are not in that state in which they ought to be, in order to repel any attack which a cruiser, such as the  Kearsage 1936 1937 1938
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, it was his intention to have moved to-night for the production of the drawings of the intended defences of Canada; but having seen them, he was enabled to say they were so simple and so efficient that an examination of them at the War Office would be quite sufficient to convince any hon. Gentleman of their expediency. He had no hesitation in saying that he believed the plans for the works intended for Canada were most skilfully prepared, and he did not think a better system of defence could be adopted; but to make that defence complete no time must be lost in placing gunboats upon the Lakes and on the St. Lawrence. He could not understand how it would be possible to defend Canada,
 1941
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that he regretted that the American question had been mixed up with that of gunnery. This Bogie cry was not now set up for the first time; they had heard it before, it used to be an invasion by France, when it was now a war with the United States, on any other Bogie which might be wanted to frighten them into giving a Vote. The real question for them to consider was, was England now in a state of defence which she ought to occupy? They had heard a great deal of the enormous expense of guns. The expense of gunnery was a matter of policy. If the Government looked forward to a prospect of years of peace they should take a small Vote. If they anticipated war they should ask for a large one, and avail themselves of the best gun of the period. The Armstrong gun had its origin in the Crimean war; the 40-pounder gun was the result of the war with Austria; and the 110-pounder was the result of the  Trent 1945
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that though the question had not been addressed to him, yet, as it involved a matter of law rather than one of policy, perhaps the hon. Gentleman would allow him to reply to it. The hon. and gallant Gentleman seemed entirely to overlook the nature of consular jurisdiction in China, or any other foreign country where such a jurisdiction had been conferred by the local Government, in assuming that Consuls had the same means at their control for the enforcement of the laws they had to ad-
 1950 posse comitatus,
 COLONEL NORTH,  who had a Notice on the paper to move—
 "That the present allowance of one shilling a day increase of pay to lieutenants of seven years' standing be extended to all subalterns of seven years service in the army," 6d., d. 6d. 5d. d. 1956 d. d. 8½d. d. d., d. l1d. 2ld., 8d. 4d. 1957 9d.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he entirely agreed with his hon. Friend (Colonel North) in the remarks he had made. He was glad to see two or three reductions in the Vote, which had all been from time to time recommended by that (the Opposition) side of the House. The reduction of the depot battalions, for example, must be gratifying to every soldier. He was glad likewise to see that the Estimates for the movement of troops was reduced this year from £70,000 to £50,000.
 1961 2d. 5d. 2d. 1962 d. 1963
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the Queen's regulations applied equally to all corps in Her Majesty's service, and, as far as he was aware, were equally observed by all. No instance of the use of bad language by commanding officers had ever come to his knowledge, nor, unless it had been made the subject of a court-martial or a court of inquiry, would such a complaint come under the consideration of the Secretary of State for War. The Commander-in-Chief was responsible for the discipline of the army, and all such cases should be referred to, and would be disposed of by him.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the answer which it had been suggested that he should give to the observations of the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire (Colonel North)—namely, that the allowance to officers of seven years'
 1965 1966 1967
 COLONEL DUNNE,  in explanation, said, that it was not "in consequence" of the neglect of precautions, but because the precautions taken were insufficient.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he had never heard before that any precautions recommended at Bermuda had been neglected, and hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would point out any shortcomings which there might have been in this respect. For, however anxious the late Lord Herbert might have been on the subject, his noble Friend now at the head of the War Department would yield to none in his anxiety to enforce sanitary regulations in the widest sense. With regard to the appointment of a gentleman for revising the military regulations to which the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Dunne) had referred, the only regulations now under revision were those referring to the finances of the War Office,
 1968 1969
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, the different financial allowances were known to all the officers. He gave credit to the noble Lord for simplifying the regulations, but not for the choice of the person to perform the task. A lawyer did not know so much of military finance as a clerk in the War Office, or as an officer who spent half his life in studying the matter. He would ask the noble Lord whether there had been any recent order by which adjutants of infantry were to be also instructors of musketry in cavalry, and that without any additional pay?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the answer which had been given by the noble Lord to the two questions which he had put to him was anything but satisfactory. There was no satisfactory explanation of why lieutenants of cavalry were deprived of an increase of pay after seven years, in the reason that in the year 1806 some grievous injustice was done to the cavalry. Then he asked why it was that the cavalry adjutant had not the same pay as the infantry adjutant. It was said that while the infantry adjutant had only one horse,
 1972
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, it would, of course, be perfectly superfluous to state after what the noble Marquess had said that there could be no doubt of his ignorance of what had taken place. At the same time he might add that certain allegations had come to his own knowledge which, although he could not follow them up completely, still led him to the conclusion that such orders as those referred to had been at least indirectly issued in some quarter. He trusted steps would be taken to inquire into the subject.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  repeated that he had made inquiries at the Horse Guards and at the War Office, and had ascertained that no such orders had been issued from either of those Departments. He would, however, again assure the Committee that a thorough investigation into the circumstances mentioned should be instituted, and inquiries as to whether any officers of the Royal Artillery had taken upon themselves to do what had not been authorized at head-quarters. A Return of the number of time-expired men who had taken their discharge in India and the colonies had been moved for by the hon. and gallant Member for Oxfordshire, and would be presented as early as possible. The other paper to which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. H. Seymour) had referred was being prepared, and he would lay it on the table when it was completed.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  admitted that that would be convenient, but considerable time must necessarily be occupied in making up the accounts.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the information as to the quantity of clothing supplied by the establishment at Pimlico and obtained by contract, desired by the right hon. Gentleman, was, for the first time, contained in the appendix. The reason for the Vote as to the clothing of the Irish constabulary was that the contracts for the supply of such clothing were managed by the establishment at Pimlico.
 COLONEL DICKSON  suggested that some tunics might have remained in store from the previous years.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that it did.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was impossible to reply to statements so general as those made by the hon. Baronet. If the hon. Baronet would state publicly or to him in private what particular cause of complaint he had it should be inquired into.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he wished to call attention to the alteration that had been made this year for calling out the disembodied regiments of militia. Last year the noncommissioned officers were called out for twenty-eight days first for training, then the recruits were called out for fourteen days, and the rest of the regiment for twenty-one days. That was a very good arrangement, but this year the recruits were only to be called out for seven days only before the regiment. This alteration had the effect of drawing the attention of the adjutant and non-commissioned officers from the recruits to the rest of the regiment before the former were equal to the duties expected of them. The drill of a militia regiment he thought of less importance than its organization. He was glad to see that the War Office had shown a great desire to improve militia regiments, and with regard to the slight increase of expense he thought the money might be spent with greater advantage if the War Office had increased the number of staff Serjeants than by increasing the number of days for calling out the regiments. The extra seven days would cost nearly £500, whereas ten staff Serjeants might be appointed who would be of greater use in keeping the regiment in a better state. He approved of their reducing the strength of the regiment to 500 men rather than making them 700 or 900 strong. He hoped the noble Lord would next year go back to the fourteen days' drill of the recruits, because increasing the staff Serjeants would be more conducive to the efficiency of the service.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the alterations with regard to the drill of the militia referred to by the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Dickson), had been made solely upon the recommendation of the militia officers. It was stated that the reduction which had been made in the amount of drill had proved very injurious to the training and discipline of the various corps, especially where they had to go through a certain amount of musketry practice. Almost all of the
 1977
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he considered it would be impossible to stop the sale of the commission, and this was a warning to those who talked so much to that House about stopping the sale of commissions. The practice had notoriously been winked at for years. He, therefore, complained of the War Office issuing the circular referred to by the noble Lord. Everything was worth just what it would fetch, and if it was worth anything somebody would find means to purchase it. The remedy proposed by the hon. Baronet would not stop the practice complained of, and it would throw an unjust amount of ill feeling on the officer who attempted to stop it. It would be unjust to those officers who had purchased if they were now to turn round and stop the system. It was a system plausible to argue upon, but it was not so easy to stop. It should have been done leng before this—in fact, it was now too late to attempt it.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said that the whole matter ought to be left to the discretion of the commanding officer. The purchase and sale of adjutancies was a most mischievous practice; and he had done everything in his power to prevent it. But it
 1979
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he could not see what lord-lieutenants had to do with the matter, if the person interested gave his undertaking that, neither directly nor indirectly, had he received any money consideration. A friend had consulted him as to what he should do in relation to a change of this kind, and all he (Colonel North) told him was to read his certificate, which declared that neither directly or indirectly had money passed, and if after reading that, he chose to take money he was not a fit associate for any gentleman.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that upon referring to the portion of the  Army List 1980
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that being in command of a militia regiment, he could speak upon the point referred to by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman. In his regiment until lately he had but two subalterns, but within the last week or two he had succeeded in getting three more officers. The cause of the difficulty was that no young man would enter as an officer into the militia unless he had a certain amount of fortune. That difficulty was not confined to Ireland, but was equally felt in this country. In reply to the hon. Gentleman he begged to say that these appointments did not rest with the lord-lieutenants, but with the War Departmant.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he admitted that there were many vacancies for subalterns in the militia. The lord-lieutenants gave various explanations of the cause, but probably the main cause was that stated by the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite that a certain amount of private fortune was necessary. Something also was due to the great competition for commissions in the Volunteer service, which had no doubt diminished the supply for the militia service. The fact that those numerous vacancies in the militia existed was to be regretted, because he agreed with the right hon, and gallant General that a corps could not be in a satisfactory state without a proper complement of subalterns.
 THE MARCHESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that he thought the hon. Gentleman had not quite correctly stated the circumstances under which it had been proposed last year to omit this Vote. It was then said that although it was desirable that the Yeomanry force should be annually trained, still it was considered that as a matter of economy and without any loss of efficiency they might permit the training to
 1982
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he believed that some of the Yeomanry regiments were already supplied with improved carbines. The whole of the regular cavalry were not yet supplied with them; but as the arming of the cavalry proceeded, no doubt improved carbines would be issued to the Yeomanry.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he hoped that some arrangement would be made by which non-commissioned officers going into the militia would have the same advantages as those who went into the Volunteers.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, a circular was issued early this year by which both services were put upon the same footing in this respect.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was afraid that the circular had not been so interpreted.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask a question respecting the mysterious item relating to the Army Reserve Force. The number of enrolled pensioners was gradually falling off. But where were these army reserves? Who ever saw them? Under what terms were they enlisted? What were their numbers? They were
 1984
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to know who commanded it? Was it General Falstaff?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the force was scattered all over the country, perhaps not more than ten or a dozen in any one place. The men were called out for drill ten days in the year, and perhaps there were from 1,000 to 1,500 of them. He quite admitted that the Act under which the service was raised was practically a failure, and he did not think the force was of much value. It was impossible to disband the men who already had been enrolled, but it was the intention of his noble Friend the Secretary for War (Earl de Grey) to inquire into the subject this year, when considering other subjects, including that of recruiting, and if some arrangement could not be made to render the Army Reserve system more successful after this year it would be abandoned altogether—that was as far as any increase of the force. The men were drilled by a regimental staff officer, so that there was no charge, therefore, for a staff force
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the number of the Army Reserve this year appeared to be the same as it was last. There must be some casualties, and he should like to know whether any addition had been made to the force by recruits since last year.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he saw there had been some slight addition to the force since last year. He had omitted to mention the number of the Volunteers, and thought it might be satisfactory to the House to know them as compared with last year. On the 1st of December, 1864, the number of enrolled Volunteers was 170,615, as against 162,935 on the 1st of December, 1863. On the I st of last December the number of efficient Volunteers was 124,181, as against 113,522 on the 1st of December in the previous year. And what was still more
 1985
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he wished to ask for some explanation with respect to the appointment as lieutenant-colonels of the Volunteer force of a number of railway engineers and railway managers. He presumed that the object of the Government in those appointments was to have the services of the navvies in case they might be required, and to obtain facilities for the transport of troops in case of hostile invasion; but no communication on the subject had taken place between the Government and the railway boards, and the gentlemen who were to be appointed lieutenant-colonels had no power of themselves to render the assistance that he supposed was required of them.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the gentlemen alluded to were to form an engineer corps and to fill the same position in respect of the Volunteers, as the officers of the Engineers did in respect of the army, and the object of the Government was to have their services in case of emergency. No doubt the very eminent engineers and contractors connected with the railways might render very important service in the construction of works and lines of railway, and in affording assistance to the military authorities in the transport of troops. Only lieutenant-colonels and majors would be appointed in the first instance; but if the plan worked well the appointments might be extended to the rank of captain, and privates would perhaps be enrolled to serve under them, if it were found that corps could be raised composed exclusively of persons connected with railways.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, that the noble Marquess had not referred to the appointment of railway managers as lieutenant colonels. What be wished to point out was that the Government had not consulted the railway authorities, who alone could afford them the assistance that might be desirable.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that he would explain the basis of his Estimate. The hon. Member for Finsbury had stated that 1,944 guns would be required, and he would take those figures as correct. But of that number only about 1,200 would be required for sea defences. The remainder would be for land defences, and would be chiefly provided from the stock of guns already in existence, because, for land defences it was not necessary to have the guns of such large calibre and such great weight as those to be used against iron-plated ships. Of the 1,200 guns for sea defences, some would be 7-inch guns of 140 cwt. There would be a few positions in which 22-ton guns would be required; but, as he had stated in an earlier part of the evening, there would be only very few positions in which such a weight would be wanted. The 12-ton gun had proved itself capable of piercing with a steel shot any iron plate we knew of as being used on a vessel. The greater number of the guns would most probably be guns of from 9 tons to 12 tons weight; but, taking a 12-ton gun as representing the average armament for sea defences, the cost according to present prices— £100 per ton—would be for 1,200 guns
 1987
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he should oppose the Amendment, and assured the House that not only was £93,000 required for the Royal Gun Factory, but much more.
 THE CHAIRMAN  called the hon. Member to order, ruling that he could only speak on the item "materials for gun factories," upon which an Amendment for its omission had been moved.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that if the Amendment had been for the reduction of the total Vote, the hon. Member would have been in order in speaking upon the whole Vote; but as the Amendment was only for a reduction on a particular item, hon. Gentlemen must confine their remarks to that item until the Amendment was disposed of.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was true that the French Estimates professed to show the exact number of guns, small arms, swords, and other warlike stores which were to be procured by the money voted in each year; but he did
 1991
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he had complimented the noble Marqeuss on the general clearness and fulness of the Estimates, but here there seemed to be a falling off in this respect, because while formerly it used to show what proportion of arms was intended for the naval and what for the military service, this was now no longer the ease. They never gave the exact number of guns; but the practice had been to give the amount for the navy and the amount for the army. He begged to ask the noble Marquess for some explanation as to certain Votes on page 7. The first matter he wished to have some explanation on was with reference to the laboratory at Devonport. He wished to know whether it was intended to transfer the stores at Devonport from the charge of an artillery officer to the Store Department. If so, such transfer would be in opposition to two Minutes of the War Office, strongly recommending that the stores should be under the charge of an artillery officer.
 THE MARQUBSS OF HARTINGTON  said, the hon. Member for Finsbury appeared to base his calculations on the number of guns required being 1,944. If he would refer to the Report of the Commission he would find that 900 of the heaviest guns was the total number recommended by the Commissioners. From that number would be supplied the guns intended for Portsmouth and its defences. Therefore, a very considerable quantity of guns for the land defences was comprised in that number. He could not state exactly how many guns would be mounted on the Spithead forts, but certainly in comparison with the whole 900 the number would be very small. Those forts would doubtless have to be armed with the very heaviest arm we could
 1995 1996 1997
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the noble Lord talked of the Enfield rifle being a "condemned arm," but, although the Lancaster rifle might be superior, the Committee of 1862 reported that the Enfield rifle was still a better arm than that supplied to any troops in the world. At many ranges of firing the difference between the Enfield and other rifles was scarcely perceptible, He could not give the noble Lord the exact numbers, but he believed that the number of Enfields made during the past year did not exceed 20,000, and that no rifle of that pattern was being manufactured at present. The factory were engaged in making either Mr. Westley Richard's breech-loading carbine or the artillery carbine.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there was all the difference in the world between a small arm that was the best weapon of war and an instrument for merely throwing projectiles accurately. He feared that the Lancaster rifle might not wear, and that it would not do for long and heavy work. A strong and coarse weapon was wanted for the soldier in active service.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the number manufactured of the Enfield rifle would best be seen when the Enfield balance-sheet was laid on the table, and could not be shown accurately before. As to the strength of the barrel of the Enfield, the Committee had been engaged in experiments and investigations as to the qualities most to be desired in a military weapon, and no doubt additional strength of barrel was considered very important.
 1999
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that in the Westley Richards and carbines the percussion arrangement was separate from the ammunition.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the Government had been already found fault with for giving so much information, although he did not think any harm had been done; for there was really nothing in the printed Report of Colonel Jervois that the Americans were not already fully acquainted with. But the Report now alluded to was certainly of a perfectly confidential nature, and it would be very unwise to produce it. It was not intended to lay upon the table any other Report than that already produced, which contained the substance of the recommendations on which the Government intended to act.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask when the promised Report of the Rifle Brigade experiments with the Whitworth rifle would be laid before the House. The House ought also to have the papers connected with the renewal of the patent for the Lancaster rifle, in order to see if the patentee had been fairly dealt with.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that when he used the term "condemned arm," he used it as compared with other arms in their own service. He admitted that our troops were better armed than any other troops in the world, but the Committee upon four points, including precision when clean, precision when foul, and simplicity of management, reported in favour of the weapon which the Government would not make. What he complained of was that the Government persistently manufactured the least good of the three arms adopted in the service.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished that the noble Lord would tell the House the number of Enfield rifles made during the last year, and the rate at which they were now being made. Last year the noble Lord said 1,000 a week were being made there, of which 700 were the three-grooved long Enfield pattern. He was afraid this condemned article was being manufactured at the rate of 700 a week. Since the Report of the Committee in 1862 not fewer than 100,000 had been made sufficient to arm all the troops in the service; and if the Government succeeded in converting it into a breech-loader, they would be converting an inferior arm instead of that recommended by their own Committee.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he fancied that the battle of the guns was likely to be as remarkable as the battle of the gauges, and though he abstained from taking part in it, yet he was prepared to believe, from what he knew of the management of the War Department with respect to small arms, that its management with respect to big guns could not be satisfactory. If he thought he should meet with any support he would move that the Vote in regard to the manufacture of small arms should be omitted, not as not being necessary, but as not being properly spent by the Government. A Committee was appointed in 1862, and they reported that of three descriptions of small arms one was superior, and yet the Government had gone on manufacturing those arms which the Committee rejected. Now that was not the way to go on, and if it were pursued by any firm or person in this country they or he would soon become bankrupt. He believed that the officers employed by the Government were very efficient men, but he could not understand why the Government persisted in manufacturing an arm which was considered inferior to other arms, and he thought that they had a right to ask whether it was intended to continue the manufacture of the rejected arm, or to adopt the arm recommended by the Committee appointed by the Government? The noble Marquess said, as he understood, that the Government had gone on manufacturing the arm which had been condemned because the best description of breech-loader had not been discovered. But surely it would be wiser to make rifles of the best pattern known than to go on making more of a rejected pattern. If it was a question of increased cost, he could understand the course taken by the Government, but no outlay would be required for new machinery. Last year the Secretary of State said that it was perfectly competent for Mr. Lancaster, whose patent had expired, to apply for a renewal, to which no opposition would be offered by the Secretary for War, and it was only the other day that it was represented that whenever the Government made use of any patent they would make a fair bargain with the
 1994 s. 1s.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had been about to make a similar request. Great interest was felt in the question, and he hoped the noble Viscount at the head of the Government would see that this, perhaps the most important qustion that would be brought before them this Session, was discussed at an early hour, when there was full attendance of Members, and not during the dinner hour.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he thought there was a great deal in the suggestion of the hon. Member for Poole, which did not go to convert the Yeomanry into mounted rifles, but to make such changes in their drill as would make them more efficient. In Hampshire, a cavalry corps had been raised by Colonel Bower, which he believed was regarded by Colonel M'Murdo as one of the most efficient forces ever raised, though he believed it comprised only two troops. Colonel M'Murdo had recently told him that he regretted there were not more corps drilled on the same principle, and that he had seen in France three cavalry corps which had been drilled on the model of Colonel
 1983
 LORD ELCHO  said, the Volunteer force was yet young, and he trusted the practice, if it existed at all, would be discouraged in every possible way by the War Office. As it was at present quite exceptional it might easily be put an end to. The fact was that the adjutant held a post of so much importance to the commanding officers that the selection ought to rest with the latter, and if they took sufficient care in their selection the practice might be stopped. He trusted the War Office would not adopt the suggestion of the hon. Baronet (Sir John Trelawny). When once appointed there was no getting rid of him. Like taking a wife, it was for better or worse, except that in the latter case there was the Divorce Court. You could get rid of your wife if you disagreed, but you could not get rid of your adjutant. The whole conduct, well-being, and efficiency of a regiment depended upon the adjutant. The commanding officer had to rely almost entirely upon him, and it was quite right that commanding officers should be allowed time to look out for the best man, and obtain, if possible, one who perfectly suited them.
 LORD ELCHO,  in reply, said, it was his intention before the recess to move for leave to bring in a general Road Bill for Scotland. A Bill had, in fact, been drawn up, but as it did not, upon examination, appear likely to pass, it was thought advisable to recast the measure. This explained the delay which had taken place, but he hoped the Bill might be printed and issued in time to allow of its consideration in Scotland before Parliament re-assembled after Easter.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to know whether tenders had been received for the conversion of the Enfield into a breechloader, what system of conversion had been decided upon, and the names of the firm whose tender had been accepted?
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he rose according to notice, to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, whether it would not facilitate recruiting for the Army, if appointments in the Civil Service up to the value of 25s. per week were thrown open to those soldiers, who, after eighteen years' service with good character, chose to qualify themselves for the above appointments. He must observe that while the price of every description of labour had greatly increased within the last few years, the pay and prospects of the soldier remained precisely the same. That state of things, of course, operated adversely upon the recruiting of the army, a point upon which he would not now enter, as it had lately been gone into fully. He was quite content to accept the admission that re-
 1958 cateris paribus, 1959
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that in answer to a question which he had put to him on a former occasion, the noble Marquess had stated that he found on inquiry that no orders had been given a great number of years back by the authorities either of the Horse Guards or the Commander-in-Chief's Department with regard to the exclusion of Roman Catholics from any branch of the service. He was convinced that in making that statement the noble Marquess made it frankly, sincerely, and without any reservation. But within twenty-four hours afterwards it came to his knowledge that while the noble Marquess's statement, made on the authority of the officials of those two offices, was literally and perfectly correct, yet that such orders had been issued and acted on by the heads of departments in the army, without the sanction of the highest authority, distinctly excluding Roman Catholics from certain branches of the service. He would rather refrain from expressing his sentiments upon such orders thirty-five years after the emancipation of the Catholics; but he trusted the noble Marquess would be able to give them an assurance from the highest authorities who commanded the army, that adequate measures would be taken to prevent such orders being given by subordinate officials without the consent of the Commander-in-Chief or the Secretary of War.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, the circumstances to which he had alluded were simply these. In 1855 the Earl of Donoughraore commanded a regiment of Tipperary Artillery (the Earl himself was his authority for the statement), and it would be in the recollection of many present that that regiment was remarkable for the good conduct of the men—so much so that at one period it was contemplated to enrol the whole regiment as a body of the Royal Artillery. That proposal first met with the approbation of His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, but it was thought there would be a difficulty in getting the officers to go along with the men. It would be seen, however, that there were other motives at
 1970 1971
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to express a hope that when the next Vote was taken detailed explanations would be given by the noble Lord as to the fortifications proposed to be constructed in Canada, and the number of men required for them. At present they knew nothing about these fortifications, or where they were proposed to be constructed. The Report they had before them was of a useless character. When we made our own coast preparations
 2000
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I presume that the Question of the hon. Member applies more particularly to cotton. This cotton comes under two categories—that which has been destroyed by the authorities of the so-called Confederate States, and that which has been taken possession of by the Federal authorities. As regards the former, the Government have been advised that foreigners owning property in a country which is subject to such a war as that now existing in the Southern States of America are liable to all the accidents which may befall the property of persons belonging to that country, and if that property has been destroyed for the  bond fide 1923
 MR. C. P. GRENFELL  said, hon. Gentlemen seemed to be unaware that these appointments were in the hands of lord-lieutenants, and he believed that all lord-lieutenants who had set their faces against the purchase of adjutancies in the militia, had been able to put a stop to the practice. He did not believe that the War Office had in any way connived at the practice. He believed that the sales took place with the permission of the commanding officers, who in this way got rid of adjutants who displeased them.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it appeared to him that the Enfield factory was getting into this position—that they were keeping up a large staff whilst the Committee were deliberating upon the kind of arm that should be adopted. He did not wish to hurry any immature conclusion
 1998
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that seeing there was a change in the statement of the account of manufacturing there, he wished to know the total of the number of guns produced at the Enfield factory last year, and also whether the Government contemplated to increase the weight or the strength of the barrel of the Enfield rifle.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS,  in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to continue the Metropolitan Homeless Poor Act, said, as this Act passed as an experiment last Session, had answered its purpose admirably. and had proved most acceptable to all the districts in London where it had been tried. He therefore proposed to extend its operations for another year.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that there had been a document somewhat similar to the one referred to in the hon. Member's Question sent to the Poor Law Board, and if it was the pleasure of the House it could be laid on the table. It was not precisely similar to the Official Paper which he had recently presented to the House, and he could not himself answer for its contents.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : In the questions which he has put, and the remarks by which he has accompanied his questions, my hon. Friend has travelled over a very wide range; but I do not think it would be consonant with the wish of the House —seeing that it is desirous of proceeding with the Army Estimates—that I should on this occasion enter into a long discussion on the land tenure of India, which is one of the questions that he has raised. I have no objection to lay upon the table the papers to which be has referred. My hon. Friend thinks that agriculture can only be improved in India by Englishmen buying land and cultivating it themselves, and attributes the backward state of Western India to its not being done. I will, however, take the liberty of reading a few sentences from a letter of Sir Bartle Frere with regard to what is going on in Bombay, and the House will see that the description which my hon. Friend has given of the state of that Presidency cannot be quite correct. Sir Bartle Frere, writing of the country near Nassick, says—
 "Except the natural features of the country, there was little by which I could recognize it, or tell where I was. Sheets of cotton, grain, and oil-seed cultivation had replaced what I knew as uninhabited jungle. Wherever I have been off the road I have found villages which had been established within the last ten or fifteen years on land which had been waste for generations." "The cotton district begins eighty or 100 miles west of this, and at each railway station near this I see that small factories with steam-driven ginning and pressing machinery are being set up by Bombay speculators." 1954
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington) had placed himself in an onerous position—he had undertaken to be a prophet in his own country. He hoped his prophecy might come true, because he had undertaken to say that in his opinion the probability of war between the Northern States and this country was exceedingly remote. He should
 1942 1943 ad captandum 1944
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that he thought the hon. Gentleman was quite right in calling the attention of the House to the probability of a war with America, and to the defenceless state of our coasts. He (Mr. Peacocke) could not think that the probability of a war with America had been
 1928
 MR. PEACOCKE  observed, that he had not said that those remarks had occurred in the course of a debate in that House. Well, he would simply say he heard that it had been stated, he would not say where or by whom, that Canada could not be defended by this country. It appeared to him that such statements were calculated to depress the courage and ability of the Natives to defend themselves, and he also believed that to tell the United States that we were unable to defend our colonies was not the way of warding off aggression from that country. At all events, he thought that they might consider the possibilities of a war with America, and that they could fairly argue as to the probabilities of such a war only by looking at the language used by the Ministers of America, as well as that of other authorities there. He would not allude to the wordy rhetoric of the multitude, but to the language used by persons in high authority in America. We heard the other day that General Dix, while commanding the Federal troops on the borders of Canada, absolutely ordered a force to violate the soil of Canada and to seize the refugees who had sought an asylum in that country. It was true the United States Government had not quite endorsed the language of General Dix, but it was equally true that General Dix was still retained in the command of the army upon the frontier. Again, on another occasion, in the harbour of Bahia, a pirate of the name of Collins, for he (Mr. Peacocke) could call him by no other name, thought fit to steal into the harbour at the dead of the night, and to sweep with grape shot an undefended and, he might almost say, unarmed vessel; to attach a hawser to her and drag her out of the harbour— an act as contrary to all principles of International Law as if he had dragged her from an anchorage in the Thames. A
 1929 Alabama. Alabama, Alabama Alabama 1930
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, the rules of the House allowed him to ask the hon. Gentleman why he did not draw up a bill of indictment against his own constituents for carrying on this trade of munitions of war with the United States. He did not know that it was a fair and impartial observance of the principle of neutrality to refuse a single unarmed vessel to one belligerent, and to furnish tens of thousands of men and hundreds of thousands of stand of arms to the other for the purpose of enabling them to shoot down men who were struggling for independence and freedom. The hon. Member for Birkenhead ought rather to be held up as the greatest pacificator who had appeared on their stage during this struggle; and he (Mr. Peacocke) would tell them why. He presumed that hon. Members were sincerely anxious for the pacification of America and for a termination of this struggle. Now, it was evident that the American civil war could not be terminated but by one of two ways —by the extermination of the South or by the exhaustion of the North, and the consequent recognition of the independence of the South. Now, it was perfectly clear that in order to exhaust the Northeners, they must be made to feel the losses and privations of war. Up to the time when the  Alabama Alabama 1931 Alabama
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, he was informed that adjutants of militia and Volunteer regiments had been in the habit of purchasing and letting their appointments for sums varying from £2,000 to £3,000, and he was desirous of knowing whether any measure had been adopted to put a stop to such a practice.
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House a Copy of the Official Report made to the Commissioners of Patents in January last by Mr. Hindmarch, Q.C., and Mr. Greenwood, Q.C., the Commissioners appointed to institute inquiries in reference to the Patent Office Accounts, and which Report was subsequently communicated to the Treasury.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that he understood that the complaint of the hon. Gentleman opposite was this—that we had erected fortifications around our coast at an enormous cost of some millions of money, and that after all none of them were thoroughly efficient, and that some of them were mounted with old guns upon old rotten carriages. They were told the other evening that a similar state of things occurred at Quebec, where there were many old guns mounted upon rotten carriages, which were certain to break down upon the first discharge. Now, the same thing prevailed not only along our coast but on almost all our military stations. At Malta we had old obsolete guns; and at Gibraltar and the Channel Islands we had obsolete guns. But, worse than all, we had obsolete projectiles. We had not been doing what every other nation had been doing—furnishing our fortifications with steel projectiles. The old cast-iron projectiles were of no more use against armour-plated ships than a number of Butch cheeses. A friend
 1933 1934
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the proceedings of the Indian authorities with regard to the Back Bay Shares at Bombay, and to move for any Correspondence between the Governor of Bombay, the Supreme Government of India, and the Home Government, relating to any proposed increase of Salaries of Officials in the Bombay Presidency. Owing to the large exports of cotton from Bombay there had recently been an enormous accession of prosperity there, upwards of £70,000,000 hav-
 1951 1952 1953
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  suggested that it would be more convenient that this account should be produced before the discussion of the Army Estimates commenced.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that he wished to ask whether that sum included the charge for Roman Catholic and Presbyterian services?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, it appeared to him very strange that the existence of such a state of things as this in the army should be unknown to the headquarters of the Royal Artillery and to the noble Lord; and it was still more strange that the noble Lord should be still uninformed, upon this second occasion, as to the existence of this alleged practice. He further wished to ask the noble Lord for information as to the expired service men in India, and whether the noble Lord would lay on the table a statement of the number of time-expired men during the last year in India; of the number who
 1973
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that the noble Marquess had not answered his question about the improved arms—rifle carbines—for the Yeomanry.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that he wished to ask, whether the War Department intended to consider the necessity of making such changes in the Yeomanry as would make them fit to act as an auxiliary cavalry force to the Volunteers and the militia. Some changes were necessary in drill, in
 1981
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask for some information as regarded the number of enrolled pensioners and the number of the Volunteers, which were not stated in the Estimate.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that upon an item in the Vote for the gun factory there appeared to have been nearly £58,000 more upon the Estimate than had been expended, and he wished to know what assurance they had that they were not now required to vote a larger sum than was required. He thought they were really proceeding in the dark with the Votes, as they bad no such paper as that to which he had already alluded showing the differences between the Estimate and the actual expenditure. It would be thought more satisfactory to the Committee, if, before they again met, they should have some paper placed in their hands showing some reason for those extraordinary discrepancies between the Estimate and expenditure.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he had not understood the remarks of his noble Friend (Lord Elcho) to be condemnatory of the Enfield rifle. His noble Friend had only stated that the rifle in use was the least perfect of the three patterns in the service, and that the Government had, notwithstanding, persisted in making 100,000 of them.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  observed, that any breech-loader would be defective that required capping.
 MR. SURTEES  said, I wish to ask the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War whether the report is true that a considerable number of carbines, of the Westley Richard's pattern are about to be issued to the cavalry, and, if so, whether they will require capping; because, if such should be the case, I consider it will be a very great defect.
 MR. CHILDERS,  in reply, said, he had last Session stated generally the intentions of the Government on this subject, and had explained that a joint Committee would arrange the details of the proposed measure, which would be brought before Parliament this year. The Committee in question was appointed, but one of its Members, Sir Richard Bromley, had been attacked by a dangerous illness, and had been for many weeks unable to attend to business. The Committee, however, had made its Report, which had been considered by the Admiralty and the Treasury, and he hoped very shortly to be able to state to the House the details of the plan, and introduce a Bill to carry them out.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was out of order in referring to a former debate.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was against the Rules of the House to refer to anything said in a previous debate.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that it was that of which he complained. He had repeatedly heard the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) say that the Secretary of State for War was responsible for everything that took place in the army; and he therefore looked to the noble Marquess the Under Secretary to give him a satisfactory reply upon every subject connected with our military forces. The Committee was now asked to vote a sum for the administration of martial law, and he was given to understand that that law was often violated by those who ought to set a better example.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, that he wished to ask the noble Marquess the Under Secretary whether the Queen's regulations were observed with equal strictness in all branches of the service, for instance, in the Guards as well as in the line; and also whether any Report had been made to him of commanding officers having used ungentlemanly language in addressing their men. It was not necessary for him to go into particulars, but he could, if it was needed, give instances, in which not only during actual operations, when it might be pardoned, but in time of peace, general officers had employed language which they ought not to have used towards their equals, still less towards their inferiors, who could not reply.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he would give the noble Lord an instance in private. He would not do so publicly, as such a course would tend to the injury of the army.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he thought the remedy was not so hopeless as the noble Lord appeared to imagine. He thought the remedy was by the War Department keeping a list of persons competent to fill the post of adjutant in a regiment, and when the recommendation of the lord-lieutenant was sent up, for the War Office to select the first man on the list. There could be no doubt that the
 1978
 MR. BASS  said, he wished to observe that while in the army a regular purchase system prevailed, yet in the militia and Volunteers such a system ought to be unknown. He regretted that the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) had pledged himself that the sale of adjutancies did not take place in the Volunteer corps. Although both buyer and seller declared upon their honour that they had not been parlies to any sale or purchase, yet it was a fact that such things did occur. It appeared, therefore, that there was a conventional mode of getting rid of a sense of honour, and it would be well for the noble Marquess to consider by what means he could render such gentlemen conscious of a sense of honour and duty in that direction.
 MR. HANBURY  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he has received a Return concerning some of the Night Refuges in London, similar to that ordered (on the 10th of February last) to be made from each Workhouse in the Metropolis, and whether he would be willing to lay that Return upon the table of the House?
 MR. COGAN  said, that he thought the Committee must have been very much startled by the revelations which had been made by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Longford (Mr. O'Reilly), and had no doubt that the impression which they would produce in the country would be very great, There were very few hon. Members, he believed, who could have supposed it possible that any subordinate officer in the army would have ventured, against the authority of the Horse Guards, to take a step such as his hon. Friend had described, calculated as it was to cause not only dissatisfaction, but disaffection. Great credit was, he thought, due to the noble Earl (the Earl of Donoughmore) who had enabled his hon. and gallant Friend to bring the matter before the House; and he must say that the dissension which such a state of things was likely to produce among our own population appeared to him to be a far more fertile source of national weakness and danger than that possibility of an American war which had so recently formed the subject of discussion. He had no doubt, however, that, in the hands of the War Office, the grievance complained of would be inquired into, and a remedy provided. The case demanded that there should be a searching investigation, and that the severest censure should be passed upon the officer, whoever he was, who had presumed to draw distinctions so invidious between Her Majesty's subiects
 MR. COX  said, he wished to ask for information as to the increase of £10,000 in the Vote for the Royal Small Arms Establishment, of which no explanation was given in the Estimate.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he should give no opinion on the question of the guns, with which he felt himself incompetent to deal; but the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. Berkeley) and the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Peacocke) had referred in their speeches to a matter which would have been more appropriate to the debate last week—namely, that on the defences of Canada. He supposed the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Peacocke) wished on this occasion to enter a protest against the language and tone which had been adopted by the leaders of his party in that House the other evening. He should not again enter into the question of the claims put forward by Mr. Seward on account of the  Alabama, 1939 1940
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any and what steps are being taken to protect the property of British subjects purchased and paid for in the Southern States of North America before the commencement of the War where proof has been afforded of the  bond fide
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the hon. Gentleman did not appreciate the difficulty of the Government with regard to guns. He believed the House and the country were quite prepared to go to any expense to provide an efficient weapon; but, as had been proved two years ago before a Committee of which he was Chairman, the Government had rushed into an attempt to produce a large number of guns without sufficient inquiry and investigation, and the result was the expenditure of an enormous sum of money, almost altogether uselessly. He was sure the House would agree with him that course should not be followed. He understood that since the Report of that Committee had been laid on the table experiments had been going on for the purpose of arriving at the best result, both as to rifling and calibre, and especially with reference to the contest between Sir William Armstrong and Mr. Whitworth, to get the best sort of gun that could be produced. The only fault he could find with the Government was that these experiments had not been pressed forward as rapidly as they might have been. He was informed that for a considerable time there had been, for some reason or other, very few experiments at Shoeburyness. He thought, till the Report relative to the comparative merits of the Whitworth and Armstrong ordnance had been laid on the table, they would not be in a condition to form a judgment as to what the Government ought to do for the future. He hoped the noble Marquess would not proceed with the Vote till that had been done. He should like to hear some statement with regard to the experiments which had taken place with the Palliser gun. He understood that by means of the insertion of two tubes in a 68-pounder it would be turned into a 110-pounder rifle gun, and that old guns might be adapted to that model for £100 each, whereas a new gun on that principle would cost £500 or £600, and these guns would then be very efficient for such purposes as were pointed out by the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. Henry Berkeley). They were perfectly effective for piercing any iron-clad ships possessed by foreign Powers at a distance of 300 or 400 yards. But what he chiefly rose for was to entreat the Government not to run into the rash and wanton expenditure which occurred with regard to the Armstrong gun, but to bring their experiments to a conclusion as
 1935
 MR. MONSELL  said, that the appendix showed only an expenditure of £44,783 upon tunics supplied by contract, which could hardly be correct.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that he wished to inquire how much of the clothing of the army was obtained from the establishment at Pimlico, and how much was supplied by contract. He also desired an explanation of a note stating that the clothing of the Irish constabulary was provided for by the Government clothing establishment.
 MR. POLLARD - URQUHART  said, that he could corroborate the statement which had been made as to the inconvenience suffered by officers from India in not being allowed to land at Constantinople for fear of infringing the regulations. He hoped the arrangements would be revised with a view of securing greater comfort. He thought what had been said by his hon. and gallant Friend behind him (Sir Harry Verney) well entitled to the attention of the War Office. He also hoped the Government would favourably consider the suggestions which had been made for a slight increase in the pay of subalterns after a certain number of years' service.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that he thought the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War must have a very good memory, or must be very careful in his note-taking, to be able to recollect all the questions which were asked of him, and he suggested that questions should not be cumulative, but each be answered as it was put. He was not quite sure, that the noble Lord had answered two questions he had formerly put to him—first, in reference to the balance of £533,433 of extra receipts that ought to be deducted from the general Estimate of the year; and secondly, with regard to the proportion of officers to men in weak as well as in strong regiments, and whether in the reduction of men, a ratio ought not to be preserved in putting officers on half pay. He thought the pay of subaltern officers insufficient. Unless an officer had means of his own he could not support himself with that respectability that every officer in the army was expected to sustain. The pay of officers in the British army was, indeed, higher than that of officers in the French army; but in this country everything was higher in price. It was very desirable with respect to filling up vacancies in the European troops in India that a considerable amount of bounty money should be paid as an inducement to re-enlist rather than allow acclimatized men to leave the army. Such men could go through another ten years of service vigorously.
 COLONEL SYKES,  in rising to call the attention of the House to the alleged inability of the British Government to enforce Orders in Council and Ordinances by Superintendents of Trade, relating to British subjects in China, said, that he did not see the Under Secretary of State for
 1946 1947 1948 1949 vis°d materiel
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to inquire how it was that the Government asked in so vague a manner for large sums for guns and small arms. Unless their calculations were based upon the fact that the army would require so many cannon, naming weight and size, and so many thousand stands of small arms, naming rifles, bayonets, and swords, they were proceeding only on guess work. A sum of £93,000, deducting the value of materials in hand, was asked for guns. Well, then, how many were required, what were the guns to weigh, and what would be the cost of the metal? They had not a word of such information. If they had contracts for these things, they should see their way, they should know that they would have to pay a certain sum according to the contract price. The French Estimates showed these details. They contracted for all the arms for their 400,000 men, and he supposed the French were not armed in a manner inferior to ourselves. The same was done with reference to their large guns. Unless he obtained some explanation from the noble Lord, he should move the omission of £93,000 for the gun factories.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that as he did not desire to restrict the discussion he should withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to observe that the noble Lord who represented the War Department stated that the cost of arming the forts would be £3,000,000, while the hon. Member for Finsbury said it would be £17,000,000, and had brought forward a calculation based on the proceedings of the Government of Russia to show that it could not be less than £14,000,000. The number of guns to be placed in the forts was 1,944, and the noble Lord stated that he had in stock 744 of the guns, thereby reducing the number wanted to 1,200. But the Committee would like to know where these 744 guns were, what was their calibre, whether they were of iron or steel, and whether they could be had without being paid for. The noble Lord, having reduced the number of guns to 1,200, assumed that they were to be only 12-ton guns; but when the fortifications were first voted the assumption was that they were to be armed with ordnance equal to any that could be placed in position by any Government with which England might have to compete. The hon. Member for Finsbury referred to the example of Russia, and told the Committee that 1,944 guns such as he described would cost a certain sum. The hon. Member also took the service of ammunition for each gun at 200 rounds, and it was to be supposed that no Government preparing for defence would make an estimate for a less service of ammunition, Were they,
 1993
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to appeal to the Chairman to know whether, the total of the Vote having been the subject of discussion, he was out of order in referring to the remarks of his hon. Friend (Sir Morton Peto) respecting the Spithead forts.
 MR. WATKIN  was referring to the armament of the Spithead forts, when
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the hon. Gentleman would move for it, the Report would be produced, together with other papers relating to the same subject.
 1922
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  believed that the proposal of the hon. Member who had just sat down would offer a great encouragement to the soldier to behave well. He recollected an occasion when a vacancy occurred in the portership of Chelsea Hospital, and the Governor asked the Paymaster General to appoint a soldier, but the reply of the latter was that the place was part of his patronage, and he gave it to his own butler. Now, that he thought was a great shame, for the men of the army had a just claim to such a vacancy. Lord Llanover, when at the head of the Office of Works, set an example in this matter, for which great credit, and the thanks of all interested in the soldier's welfare, were due to him. He began the system of giving the offices in his patronage to deserving old soldiers; and many of the men now employed as park-keepers, who had medals on their breasts testifying that they had served their country well, owed their appointments to that nobleman. That system might beneficially be carried much further, because there were many offices at the disposal of the Government which might be perfectly well filled by meritorious soldiers and sailors. The hon. and gallant Member opposite (Colonel North) had referred to the increased pay granted to the navy to the amount of a quarter of a million; and he might also have added the advantage given to the sailor who had his rations found him, and might save the whole of his pay, whereas the soldier had to bear the expense of his own food. Moreover, without depreciating the services of our
 1960
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that being connected with the army he thought it incumbent upon him to state that no language could be more unexceptionable than that heard at the mess. [Sir JOHN TRELAWNY: I did not refer to the mess.] The same observation would apply to the treatment which officers extended to the men under their command. Of course, exceptional instances would always occur, as they did in all positions of life, but, as a rule, no class of society was more exempt from the charge made by the hon. Baronet than were the officers of the army.
 SIR HENRY WILLOUGHBY  said, that he presumed the hon. and learned Member for Maldon did not think that war with America was a desirable thing. They ought in that House to be extremely cautious about the style of language they adopted. If the United States had grievances to allege against this country, which might be very true, the less said about them here the better. On the other hand, if we had a grievance, or the Confederates had a grievance to complain of, those who were really desirous for peace between the two countries must be cautious in the eloquent summoning up of those awkward pieces of history which, in his opinion, could have no effect in producing peace and goodwill between the two Powers. Therefore, he did not intend to pursue the
 1932
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that by the 6  Will.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to ask, What were the intentions of the Government in regard to Greenwich Hospital?
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he found allocated to the forts at Spithead in the Report of the Commission, and the plans formed in consequence, 915 guns; at the Needles, 81; at the Isle of Wight, 71; at Plymouth, 262; Pembroke entrance, 43; Portsmouth, 200; the entrance of the Thames, 110; the Medway, 172; Dover, 45; and Cork, 45 —in all 1,944. The number in France was 2,044. He would take the average cost of these 1,944 guns at £4,066 per gun, the size being 9-inch bore, ll-inch, and 15-inch, and the cost obtained from manufacturers of the highest standing who had supplied not only our Government, but the most important Governments on the continent. Hon. Members must be aware that the cost of the gun depended very much upon its size, and he had made his calculation upon the assumption that of these 9-inch, 11-inch, and 15-inch guns, there would be one-third of each kind. It would be remembered that, with regard to these Spithead forts, for which nearly 1,000 guns would be requisite, he had originally moved that
 1988 * d. 1989
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that on the night the Army Estimates were introduced the noble Marquess the Under Secretary of State for War referred to a statement of his in connection with the Navy Estimates. He wished to set himself right with reference to it. That statement had reference to the cost of the armament for the new forts. He made it after as careful an inquiry as it was possible for him to have instituted, and he still believed that it would be borne out by the facts. He was sure the Committee would feel with him that it was most important that such a statement should not be made by a Member of that House without a most careful inquiry. He had stated that the 1,944 guns composing the armaments required for the several forts would cost £17,000,000. The noble Marquess had since stated that they would cost only £3,000,000, and he now asked the noble Marquess upon what calculations this Estimate was founded?
 SIR MORTON PETO  suggested that a special day should be fixed for the discussion. The question was one affecting the public mind very much.
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the two new Contracts with the West India and Pacific Steamship Company for carrying Mails to Jamaica, &c, will be laid on the table?
 MR. LAWSON  said, that last Session they were told by the noble Lord, that as this force was totally unnecessary for the defence of the country they would not be called out for the annual training. Accordingly last year no Vote was proposed in the Estimate for the expense of the usual week's drill of the Yeomanry; a Motion was made on the subject by the hon. and gallant Member for Beverley (Colonel Edwards), but the House affirmed the decision of the Government. A fortnight afterwards a deputation of Yeomanry colonels waited on the noble Lord at the head of the Government and pressed him to reconsider his determination. The noble Lord told them that, in consequence of the New Zealand war being brought to a conclusion, he should consent to the Yeomanry being called out as usual, and a supplementary Estimate was brought in for that purpose. It was rather a singular reason to allege for a warlike demonstration that war was at an end. He (Mr. Lawson) hoped the war in New Zealand was now really drawing to a close; and following the noble Viscount's argument, that was a sufficient reason why the House should now refuse to vote this sum for these antiquated and rather clumsy warriors. He, therefore, moved that the Vote be reduced to the sum of £43,117, which was as nearly as he could make out the cost of the week's permanent drill.
 MR. LAWSON  said, in merely proposing the omission of the item and not of the whole Vote, he was following the example of the Government, who last year made the same Motion, and supported it by excellent speeches, which had induced him now to take the same course. If there had been any chance of success he should have been very glad to move the omission of the whole Vote. The next question was not whether they were useful or not, but whether the Yeomanry were wanted for the defence of the country.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he wished to know whether Colonel Jervois's Report would be produced. At present they had only his covering letter enclosing his Report. He presumed that the production of the plans proposed for the fortifications would be inexpedient.
 MR. SEYMOUR FITZGERALD  said, he thought it would have been much better for the Government to lay on the table a short statement of those fortifications which they considered necessary, instead of entering into all the reasons why they
 2001
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : We propose to go on with the Array Estimates on Thursday next, and this Vote will be the first taken. The hour at which the discussion will come on is not altogether within the control of the Government. It depends a good deal on those hon. Members who have preliminary Motions. I hope, however, that a general understanding may be come to, and that the House will at an early hour go into Committee.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, in reply, that he hoped the Bill would be introduced very shortly.
 MR. PEEL  said, the hon. Member for Truro (Mr. A. Smith) had pressed for an inquiry into the Office of Woods and Works, and in his speech had referred to some Resolutions of which he had given notice last Session. The hon. Member also stated that there was much in the business of each of the two Offices which was common to both, and any difference between them was not clearly defined. That was wholly unfounded. The properties managed by these two Offices were perfectly distinct and separate from each other. The property under the management of the Office of Woods was the hereditary possession of the Crown, and administered, subject to the necessary outlay for the maintenance and improvement of the inheritance, for the purpose of the revenue; and the property administered by the Office of Works consisted of buildings and of the parks in London which were held and had been acquired for Government Offices, for national collections, and for the recreation and enjoyment of the public. The hon. Member stated that the Office of Works had certain rights over portions of the Crown property, and had referred to certain buildings which were occupied as Government Offices, such as the Admiralty and Treasury Offices; but he (Mr. Peel) had never heard that any inconvenience had arisen either to the public or the Office of Works in consequence of these buildings being the property of the Crown. The hon. Member had also drawn attention to the fact that while the parks in London which had been set out for the enjoyment of the public were under the management of the Office of Works, the property which was reserved had been placed under the Office of Woods, being the only part which yielded any profit. He (Mr. Peel) would take the two parks—Regent's Park and Victoria Park. These were acquired at the expense of the Crown revenues, and the Crown, having reserved a certain portion of them, planted and laid out the greater part for the use of the public, and entirely at the expense of the Crown revenue. When the partition of the Offices took place in 1851, an Act of Parliament, by which the two Offices were separated, transferred the management of that portion of the parks which had been laid out at the expense of the Crown revenue to the Office of Works, and also directed that all those portions, whether of houses or lands,
 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that as soon as soon as he was acquainted with the provisions of the Bill about to be introduced he should be happy to communicate with the hon. Baronet, and between them a measure might be agreed upon calculated to work satisfactorily. If, however, as he had some reason to believe, the measure of the hon. Baronet went beyond his own in many particulars, he should be sorry to risk the loss of some one Bill of a practical nature this Session by striving after objects which might prove to be unattainable.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the explanation which he had given
 48
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH , in moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the Office of Works and the Office of Woods, Forests, and Land Revenues, said, that in the second Session of the present Parliament Mr. Wise, then Member for Stafford, but now no longer a Member of the House, moved for an inquiry into the whole Civil Service expenditure of the country, specially animadverting upon these two Departments. The inquiry which took place in consequence was directed to the Office of Works, but not to the Office of Woods; and owing to the failure of Mr. Wise's health and other causes it was not so satisfactory as could be wished, though many useful suggestions were made by the Committee. Last Session he endeavoured to bring the subject before the House, but it
 9 10 11 12 13 Cries of 14 "Nothing," he said, "could be more lamentable and deplorable than the state of the whole arrangement with regard to the management of the Public Works. Vacillation, uncertainty, costliness, and all the conflicting vices that could be enumerated were united in our present system. He believed such were the evils of the present system that nothing short of a revolutionary reform would be sufficient to remedy it." 15
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, he had made arrangements at the Foreign Office for the issue of these Reports as speedily as possible, and he hoped they would be placed on the table at the end of every month, or as soon after the last day of the month as possible.
 MR. NEATE  thought it was very desirable this Committee should be appointed, as with in the last thirty years the Government, on behalf of the Crown, had been taking upon themselves an entirely new character—that of landed proprietors, and it was well worth consideration how far the Government had acted wisely in that. They had been building houses, and in fact doing everything that enterprising landed proprietors would do. The Government had also put themselves into the hands of London valuers, and exacted extravagant rates. Another very important public question might soon arise, perhaps in the next reign, whether a civil list would be wanted, or whether the revenue of the Crown estates would be sufficient. Was it desirable that the Sovereign should be placed in the position of a great landed proprietor, and made entirely independent of all grants from the State? These were questions
 16
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I confess I do not think the present a favourable period for taking into consideration such questions as those involved in the Motion of the right hon. Member for Limerick. The whole of Europe—and I do not see how England can ignore these proceedings on the Continent—has just been alarmed at the issue of a document termed the Encyclical Letter of the Pope. This document is of so important a character that it has occupied the attention of the French Legislature for a considerable
 32 "According to the Encyclical there is no truly Christian society except where the subjects obey their princes without discussion, and the princes in like manner obey the Pope, and the Pope alone, as God; where the crime of heresy is persecuted and punished with the whole rigour of the law. Therefore, in such a society the religious theocratic power exists alone, for princes will not know how to deal with the affairs of the Church without
 33 "Freedom of conscience, freedom of worship, freedom of opinion, the independence of the civil power in contradistinction to the religious, the ecclesiastical, or spiritual, are all described as detestable errors. The theory (system) which is hence adduced is this:—The people at the mercy of their princes; the princes under the authority of the Pope; the Pope having all liberty of intervention in the affairs of the temporal power; princes and Governments cannot in any sense claim of right to deal with religious, spiritual, or ecclesiastical affairs; the Roman Catholic religion alone in possession of the right of public worship; the Roman Catholic Church having the right to inflict corporal punishment upon those who violate her laws; the offence of heresy, which has been obliterated from all the modern codes, is continued, and is to entail punishment, just as in the worst days of the Middle Ages." 34
 MR. GOSCHEN , in moving that the House resolve into Committee, in order that the Chairman might be directed to move for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the abolition of certain tests in connection with academical degrees in the University of Oxford, stated that the Bill was identical with that introduced last year by the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Dodson); and, as it had then been fully
 49
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he did not intend to reply to the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell), but merely to point out to the Government that the proposal involved a constitutional change in the organization of the House—a change in an arrangement which was the subject of great deliberation when it was agreed upon. When, therefore, the Home Secretary invited calm discussion for the question, he begged leave to make this observation, that he, for one, would not discuss it he should vote against it; and he would charge the Government,
 35
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  rose to move the Resolution of which he had given notice—
 "That in the opinion of this House it is expedient that the reduction of Fire Insurance duty made in the last Session be extended at the earliest opportunity to houses, household goods, and all descriptions of insurable property." 36 37
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had charged him with inconsistency in moving a Resolution to reduce the duty to 1 s. d., s.
 MR. DODSON  said, that the Bill of last Session had been introduced by its promoters in the shape in which they were anxious it should pass, and that they had left it to its opponents to give notice of such Amendments as they might think fit. It was not correct to say that the Bill had only reached the Committee, for the fact was that it had been read a third time, and had only been thrown out on the question that the Bill do pass.
 MR. HUBBARD  wished to know whether this country was to be governed entirely by the Administration, or in part by the House of Commons—because, if the House of Commons were to have any voice in the Government, it surely had a right to express an opinion at some time on such a subject as the present. If the House declared its opinion in regard to the remission of a particular tax before the Budget, it was told it was premature; if after the Budget, it was told it was too late, that everything was settled, and that the Resolution should have been proposed long ago. This was his answer to the advice given to the House by the hon. Member for the City of London. Last year he (Mr. Hub-
 43
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, there could have been no objection to referring this Irish Sewage Bill to the English Sewage Select Committee had the Committee been willing to undertake its consideration; but from a communication which he had had with some of the Members of that Committee, he found that they were unwilling to accept the consideration of the Bill, and therefore, he would suggest that the Motion now before the House should be withdrawn.
 MR. MALINS  trusted that the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. Sheridan) would not be led off on the false scent just thrown out, but would divide the House. The idea of leaving the matter to the Chancellor of the Exchequer was a mere delusion. The reduction of the duties on Fire Insurance was not a favourite measure with the right hon. Gentleman. It was a tax for which no man would say a word, for it was s tax of 200 per cent on prudence and forethought. If hon. Members at the time when the Budget was proposed made a suggestion of this kind, the right hon. Gentleman told the House that he could not have his plans disturbed. Whether they brought the matter forward before the Budget, after the Budget, or at the time of the Budget, they were always wrong. What, then, was the duty of Parliament? Clearly to put its finger on such a tax, and express an opinion for the guidance of the Government. The Resolution of the House was not without its influence upon the right hon. Gentleman last year, and if the House affirmed the Resolution now before it the Chancellor of the Exchequer would find it impossible to resist such an expression of opinion. He verily believed the right hon. Gentleman intended to propose the reduction of the duty, and that was the interpretation he put upon his moving the Previous Question.
 MR. CRAWFORD , who rose amid loud cries of "Divide!" said, that he had on a previous occasion supported the hon. Gentleman who had made this Motion, but he was unable to vote with him that evening. He was about to take what he knew to be an unpopular course with those whom he had the honour to represent, but he thought the present Motion was inopportune, and that it would be inexpedient to fetter themselves and the Ministry by an abstract Resolution.
 MR. WALPOLE  observed, that if the Bill was identical with that introduced last year, the only observation he had now to make was that the hon. Mover must expect the same opposition. He thought it would have been better to introduce a Bill amended in form instead of the identical measure which had only reached the Committee last year.
 MR. HANKEY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, When he proposes to introduce his Bill for the better protection of Life and Property against Fires in the Metropolis?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise to move the Previous Question—Without entering into what may be called the merits of the Question, I shall address the few remarks I have to make simply to the Question as to the time at which the hon. Member proposes his Resolution; and I feel bound to say, that the period which he has chosen for his Motion is inopportune. On no occasion that I have known has it ever been considered by the Government compatible with their duty to accede at a period immediately preceding the financial statement of the year to any Resolution of this House binding their hands by anticipation in regard to the proposals they may have to make in respect to the reduction of taxation. The hon. Gentleman has said that
 38 39 40 "The surplus, which began with £2,570,000, is now brought down to no more than £430,000. And here it would have been the wish of the Government to stop. There is, however, still another subject demanding our attention. In consequence of the formal intimation given by the vote of the House, we have deemed it our duty, limited as are our means, to consider whether we could submit a measure which, whatever else it might do, would do good as far as it went, and which would indicate at least our desire to meet with deference and respect the convictions entertained by the House of Commons, even although we did not entirely and absolutely share them, if it could be done without a vital sacrifice of the public interests. I refer to the duty on Fire Insurances."—[3  Hansard, 41 s. d.; s. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. s., s. d., s., s. 6., 42 s. d.,
 MR. FERRAND  asked if the Reports were to be laid upon the table.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If Mr. Rawlinson, the Government Engineer, has made any other Reports on the state of Waterworks Reservoirs than those already published; and, if so, whether he will lay them upon the table of the House?
 MR. MONSELL , in rising to move that the Chairman be directed to move the House that leave be given to bring in a Bill to substitute an oath for the oath required to be taken and subscribed by the Statute passed in the tenth year of the reign of King George IV., for the relief of His Majesty's Roman Catholic Subjects, said, he was sure that although he could not appeal to any party or political feeling, he would receive the kind indulgence of the House. The question he was about to bring under their notice aid not touch the majority of the Members of the House. It affected the honour and disturbed the conscience of but a small minority, and on behalf of that minority lie confidently appealed to the justice and good feeling of the House—the time for bringing it forward was an opportune one. It was perhaps natural that immediately after the passing of the Emancipation Act Members should group themselves under theological banners. This had passed away, and he believed that hon. Members now took their seats on this or that side of the House according to political not theological views. Another point which had been frequently alluded to in former debates was the idea that some compact was made between the Roman Catholics and the Duke of Wellington at the time of the proposing the Emancipation Bill, That idea, however, had been dissipated by the statement of the more competent authority on the subject—namely, Earl Russell—who distinctly informed the House that there was no communication at all between the Roman Catholics and the Government upon the introduction of the Emancipation Bill. He had been urged by many persons, both in and out of the House, to extend the scope of his Motion, and instead of dealing simply with the Roman Catholic oath, to substitute for all oaths now taken a simple oath of allegiance to be taken by all Members entering that House, ["Hear!"] He entirely agreed with the feeling which that cheer indicated. He would desire that all Members of that House should have simply an oath of allegiance to take; but he would state the reason why lie did not think it expedient or desirable that he should be
 25 "My idea of the oath of supremacy is, I confess, that in the strict and literal interpretation of the words it is impossible to be taken by any one, for it not only denies that any foreign Power ought to have ecclesiastical or spiritual authority within this realm, but it denies even that any foreign Power has such authority. Now, if we admit that there are Roman Catholics in the country the Pope must have spiritual power here." 26 27 "God bless the King, the Faith's Defender! God bless—no harm in blessing—the Pretender! But who Pretender is, and who is King, God bless my soul! that's quite another thing!" "I cannot help observing of what little use to a Government the imposition of oaths has ever been. A Government is never secure of the hearts of the people but from the justice of it, and the justice of it is generally a real security. … When men habituate themselves to swear what they do not understand, they will easily be brought to forswear themselves in what they do understand. The like danger is from the frequency of them, which always takes off from the awe of them and consequently their force. In my opinion no oaths should be appointed but in judicial matters." "What he wished the House to bear in mind was this—that if there were these difficulties in the construction of an oath, which were held to be of great constitutional importance, that of itself was a clear proof that the matter required the attention of the House; for it was not a subject which ought to be left to A, B, and C to construe for themselves. There ought to be a legislative construction put upon an oath."—[3  Hansard, "I do further declare that it is not an article of my faith, and that I do renounce, reject, and abjure the opinion that princes excommunicate or deprived by the Pope or any other authority of
 28 "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm as established by the laws." "I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am, or may become, entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom. I do solemnly, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare that I do make this declaration and every part thereof in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." "Reminded the House that in the progress of the Catholic Relief Bill a clause had been proposed to prevent the interference of Catholic Members in any matters relating purely to the Church, and the House had rejected it; and as that was the case he thought that Catholic Members had as much right as Protestants to take part in the discussion of any matter that came before the House as Protestants."—[3  Hansard, 29 30 "I confess that to me all this is a very dangerous, a very objectionable, I will freely say, a very immoral trial of the conscience; a perpetual temptation to tamper with its sensitive jealousy of itself—a temptation to gulp down all without thought or without inquiry, or to act under the paralyzing torture of doubt." 31
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would consent to accept the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he rose to move that this Bill be referred to the Select Committee on the Metropolis Sewage and Essex Reclamation Bill. Similar witnesses would have to be examined in both cases, and therefore it would save a great amount of time and expense to consider the two Bills together.
 MR. BAINES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is intended to issue the Consular Reports and Reports of the Secretaries of Legation, for the information of the mercantile public, at shorter intervals?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, they should be laid on the table if they were moved for.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the day after this unhappy occurrence the Governor of Durham Gaol wrote to him and stated the precautions which had been taken to prevent any such accident. He had thereupon written to the High Sheriff of the county, who was the person directly reponsible for carrying out the execution, calling his attention to the statement of the Governor, expressing his opinion that sufficient care had not been taken to test the rope beforehand, and hoping that if unfortunately another execution should take place at Durham, greater precaution would be used to prevent the possibility of the occurrence of so deplorable an event.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that Mr. Rawlinson had made a Report concerning some Reservoirs at Rochdale, the hon. Member for Rochdale having requested that such inquiry should take place, and also a Report in reference to the bursting of a Reservoir near Whitehaven.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The only observation I feel called upon to make at present is to say on the part of Her Majesty's Government that we give a ready assent to the Motion which has been made by the right hon. Member for Limerick, so far as regards the preliminary step for bringing in a Bill for the purpose he has in view. I think it is impossible to deny that the subject is one which is entitled to consideration. I agree with him that oaths and declarations, which are unnecessary, of doubtful interpretation, or needlessly offensive to those to whom they are tendered—not because they cannot conscientiously make the declaration, but because it imputes to them opinions which they repudiate are objectionable. How far this objection applies to the oath taken by the Roman Catholic Members of this House, we shall have an opportunity of considering on the second reading of the Bill. I believe that no objection will be made by any hon. Member to the introduction of the Bill, and therefore I think that it will be better to postpone any discussion upon this subject until the second reading, and I hope we shall approach the discussion then, with a desire, while parting with no real security for the maintenance of the Protestant religion, to do justice to every reasonable claim made by our Roman Catholic fellow subjects.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  hoped his
 44
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the horrible scene which took place at the execution of Matthew
 8
 MR. JACKSON , who also rose amid loud calls of "Divide!" said, he did not often trouble the House, but he wished to be allowed to join in the appeal made to the hon. Member for Dudley by the hon. Member for the City (Mr. Crawford) not to divide the House. He was a supporter of the principle of the measure, but having heard the acknowledgment by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the power of that House in such matters he thought the matter might safely be left in his hands. He had no doubt the right hon. Gentleman, after what he had said, would meet the wishes of the House as far as his means would go.
 COLONEL DICKSON  wished to know whether the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Blake) stood there as a shareholder in the lines of railway to which he referred, or as a partizan of the proprietors of the great lines? He was, unfortunately, largely interested in two of these lines, and he stood there to protest against any interference with their interests. Of Mr. Malcolmson he desired to speak with all respect. Now Mr. Malcolmson happened to be Chairman of the Waterford and Limerick line, which owing to gross mismanagement had not been prosperous; but he hoped the exertions of Mr. Malcolm-son would restore prosperity to it. He should not enter into the religious view of the question; but when hon. Members talked of the immorality of travelling on Sunday he would ask them—Did they never go to Greenwich to dine on a
 60
 LORD DUNKELLIN  denied that this measure could properly be called exceptional, seeing that it was intended to extend the legislation of 1844. As to the allegation that only twenty-five persons travelled upon the particular line which had been alluded to, there could be no doubt that if an opportunity were only afforded them of doing so, a very large number of persons would travel upon it. As Ireland was a Roman Catholic country he would not offer any observations on the religious part of the question; hut would pass to the financial. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast had compared railway companies to ordinary carriers on the highway; but there was no fair analogy between the two. If an ordinary carrier refused to convey on a Sunday that did not prevent the highway from being available to the public; but, if a railway company would not run its trains the line obviously could not be used by the public. The advocates of the Bill did not
 66
 MAJOR HAMILTON  said, that the hon. Member for Mayo (Lord John Browne) had mentioned a case in which a gentleman could not get medical assistance from Dublin in consequence of there being no railway traffic on Sunday. But he was happy to inform the House that there was sitting opposite to him a Gentleman who had that day expressed the opinions of his constituents, and was enabled to make his very lucid statement in consequence of there being no Sunday railway traffic in Ireland. His hon. and gallant Friend telegraphed when he was very ill for the doctor to go down to Limerick and see him; and the answer was that there was no railway travelling on Sunday, consequently the doctor could not go to Limerick, and his hon. and gallant Friend recovered and was in the House to make his lucid statement that day. Therefore, putting Limerick against Mayo, they had an even question as between Sunday railway travelling in Ireland and the absence of it. The objection of the people of Scotland to that Bill was that it might cause compulsory Sunday labour to be forced on railway officials in Ireland; and they were afraid that if it were now passed for Ireland it might, in a future Session, be held good for Scotland also.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he knew an instance in which the life of a gentleman in Ireland had been greatly endangered because it was found impossible to send for a surgeon by railway on Sunday after he had met with a serious accident. The House had already interfered in various ways with railway companies, and had in particular insisted on their providing accommodation for the working classes. He believed that the general feeling in Ireland was decidedly in favour of the measure.
 MAJOR GAVIN  said, that in matters of legislation the interests of the greatest number ought to be considered. Now, it had been stated that if the trains in Ireland ran on a Sunday 800 railway officials would be inconvenienced; but he would put against that number the 50,000 people in Limerick who were inconvenienced by the want of a Sunday train. No one could regret more than himself that any Irish railway should not pay; but he believed that in some districts Sunday would eventually be the best paying day, if trains ran on that day. But whether that were so or no, he believed that the ordinary traffic paid well, and the railway directors should be satisfied though they might lose in one particular if the traffic paid generally. Foynes, one of the best and safest har-
 64
 MR. LEFROY , in seconding the Amendment, said, he objected to the Bill both upon religious and financial grounds. The Legislature had declared that all acts, except those of necessity and piety, were unlawful on the Sabbath day; and yet the proposal involved in the present Bill was that 880 railway officials should be employed in unnecessary labour on Sunday and; prevented from attendance to their religious duties and separated from their families. And when the House considered that this was done for the convenience of perhaps five-and-twenty persons, he thought they would refuse to sanction the measure. Upon financial grounds the Bill was also objectionable, inasmuch as it would entail an annual expenditure of £5,000 upon certain railway companies which were not in a position to make such an outlay. Not a single petition had been presented in favour of the running of such trains, and so inadequate a case had been made out that he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would withdraw the Bill, and not put the House to the trouble of dividing.
 MR. H. ROBERTSON  said, the House was called upon by this Bill to say that
 67
 MR. BLAKE  regretted, from esteem he had for the hon. Baronet who introduced the Bill, that he was again obliged to endeavour to frustrate what he seemed so anxious to carry; but his proposal would inflict so much injustice and injury on the proprietors of the railway lines, on whose behalf he spoke, that he felt it his duty to do so. Before entering on the real question before them, he would only remark that the portion of the Bill which provided for giving third class passengers increased facilities for reaching their destination at the same time as second class, were to a great extent unobjectionable, and if he embodied that part in another Bill he would, with certain modifications, be disposed to support instead of opposing him. The section,
 56 ex post facto 57 s. d. s. 58 59
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, they had heard a very ingenious technical argument from the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), but the hon. and learned Gentleman had carefully kept out of view the real character of railway companies. They were not private traders in the ordinary sense of the words. Their character was a distinct and peculiar one. First of all, they asked the House for peculiar powers; and the House in granting those powers had a right to require from them in return the performance of certain duties. Besides, the House by granting those powers drove from the same line of traffic every other person whatever. Parliament was, therefore, bound in that case to take care of the public interests. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast had talked of "confiscating" the rights of those companies. There was no word more displeasing to English ears. But there was no confiscation in the matter. In 1844 Parliament told the railway companies that when they obtained Bills they must take them with the understanding that the House would, if it so thought fit, interfere with them; and did not the House interfere with the whole of railway transactions? The House laid down no maximum fare in the case of a common stagecoach, but it did in the case of a railway. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) said that when a railway company constructed a line they became common carriers. Did they? Were they not very uncommon carriers? Did they not drive everybody else from competition? And when the hon. Gentleman talked in the way lie did, was it not a farce, and was not the hon. and learned Member endeavouring to impose upon them, and was he not trifling with the common sense of: the House? He had not touched upon the religious part of the question, for the
 63
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he would not dwell on the Sabbatical view of the question. Under the Jewish law a man was restricted to a Sabbath-day's journey, which he supposed was about two furlongs; but he read of nothing of the sort under the Christian dispensation, and he saw no impropriety in people enjoying the treat of an excursion on Sunday. He agreed that railways were the creatures of legislation, and that the House had the right to resume what it had conferred; and though retrospective legislation was not liked in the House or in the country, that did not apply to all times and all circumstances, and he thought it was competent to the House to interfere if a fair case were made out. They had heard "the public" very much spoken of in the course of the debate; they had also heard of the three tailors of Tooley Street speaking in the name of the people of England; and the complaint in the present case seemed to originate with some twenty-five persons, one-fourth of whom were Members of that House. The hon. and gallant Member for Limerick (Major Gavin) complained that the people of that city had no means of getting from that place on Sundays. He (Mr. Longfield) had certainly found it one of the saddest places he was ever in on a Sunday; but he thought the people there might find opportunities if they chose to avail themselves of them; but by some unaccountable stupidity the people of Limerick, when they had the opportunity, did not like to pay for it. They might talk about "the public" if they pleased; but there was no substantial grievance here to be redressed. He bad no sympathy with Scotch legislation. A man might as innocently go to Greenock or Dumbarton on a Sunday as stay at home and get drunk there; and a man might as innocently go to Kingstown on a Sunday as stay in Dublin and get drunk. That was the alternative. In the same way he had no objection to the people of Limerick going to Foynes on Sunday if they pleased. But had the promoters of this Bill made out any case for this exceptional legislation for the ruin of these companies? One
 65
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  very briefly supported the Bill.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in moving that the Railway Travelling (Ireland) Bill be now read a second time, said, that the Bill was in substance the same as that which he had introduced towards the close of last Session, but which was thrown out on the second reading in a very small House. The object of the Bill was to secure to the public of Ireland the power of travelling on railways on Sundays, and also to give to third-class railway passengers in Ireland the privileges which were enjoyed by the same class in England. The feeling which existed north of the Tweed
 52 53 54 ex post facto ex post facto 55
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, it was introduced for the purpose of removing a manifest defect in the existing law in reference to benefices in Ireland. As the law stood at present, when parishes were too large and populous for ecclesiastical arrangements a division might be made and a church built in what became a district parish, and if any person subscribed money for the purpose the patronage of the new church might be vested in trustees to be appointed by them. But in the working of the various Acts of Parliament on the subject, this difficulty had arisen, that the actual transfer of the new church to the patronage of trustees could not be made until the church was completely built and the first incumbent appointed. The result was that there was no security beforehand that the transfer of the patronage would actually be made; and the reason being because there could be no transfer of patronage without the consent of the rector or vicar of the parish and the bishop of the diocese for the time being. It might be that both rector and bishop might be
 51
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that he knew nothing of the squabbles referred to between different railway companies, and he thought it would be better for the House to leave them to manage their affairs their own way. But the Bill before them was not of a local and personal nature—it raised a question of very great importance, and he could not help expressing his surprise that, on a question affecting the trade of the country, the House had not the advantage of the presence of the President of the Board of Trade. With regard to the Sunday question he had his opinions; but the present Bill had nothing to do with that subject. This was a proposition to interfere in a manner never dreamt of for years past with the mode in which persons might carry on their trade. A railway was, no doubt, a public highway. It must be open every day in the week, like any other public highway, and any person who liked had a right to run a carriage upon it, on paying the tolls prescribed by the Act of Parliament. He was aware that that right was not practically exercised. But let the House remember the position of a railway company. Being the proprietors of the highway, they might or might not, as they pleased, become public carriers; they might, if they pleased, run trains on a part only of their line, or they might run trains on certain days only in the week. As regards the law, they were just as free as any other carriers to carry when and how they pleased. If the House were to require railway companies to run trains on Sundays for the public convenience, why should it not for the same reason
 61 62
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that after the withdrawal of the Indian troops serving in China the Indian allowances, given to the British troops with the view of placing them on the same footing as the Indian troops serving in that country, would be withdrawn, and a new scale of allowances would be fixed suitable to the circumstances of the case.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, it was the fact that some of the troops in New Zealand had applied for a share of the prize money arising from the proceeds of the land captured by the troops; but he was not aware that in any case, under any circumstances, had land captured by military operations been treated as prize money, and therefore it had been intimated that the application in question could not be complied with.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he rose to ask the Chief Commissioner of Works, What progress, if any, has been made towards the completion of the Memorial to the late Duke of Wellington in St. Paul's Cathedral?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that Mr. Stephens had not completed the model which he had been commissioned to prepare. He (Mr. Cowper) had addressed frequent remonstrances to him, but he was not able at present to say when the model would be ready.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he wished to know, whether the period that had elapsed since the death of the Duke of Wellington, in 1852, was not too long to be allowed to pass without some active step being taken towards completing the memorial intended to be raised to the Duke's memory in St. Paul's Cathedral?
 MR. COWPER  said, he quite agreed that Mr. Stephens had been very dilatory in the execution of the engagement, which
 81
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether any Despatch or Letter was received by the late Mail from New Zealand
 83
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that General Cameron's last Despatches, in which he alluded to the probable withdrawal of troops from New Zealand, would shortly be laid on the table of the House.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that military officers had been sent over from time to time during the progress of the war between the United and Confederate States, but there was only one that he knew of at that moment. There was a British naval Attaché at Washington, and it had been proposed to send out also a military Attaché. The Government of Washington had made no objection to this; but the final decision could not be arrived at till after the meeting of Congress. It having been stated
 84
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that these allowances were only made in respect of those Volunteers who had made themselves efficient. The sum involved was very small, and it was not the intention of the War Office to propose any change.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that no arrangement had, as yet, been made. As regarded the salaries of the  employés,
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he would answer the questions of the hon. Baronet as shortly as possible. First, with regard to the office of the Inspector General of Infantry, he could only repeat what he stated the other day; the cause of the abolition was that the reduction of the number of depot battalions had been so considerable that a very great part of his duties had been done away with, and it was not considered that those which remained were sufficient to warrant the retention of the office. It was considered that the depot battalions which remained would be equally well administered by the General in whose district they were. The abolition of the office was not owing to any dissatisfaction with the manner in which the duties of the office had been performed by the officers who lately held the appointment, but simply because since the reduction of the depot battalions there was not sufficient occupation for such an officer. With regard to the second Question as to Colonels of the regiments of Guards, he could only repeat what he said the other evening—although the brigade of Guards consisted of seven battalions, yet it did not in reality constitute a Division under the command of a Major General. The present system worked admirably, and he should be sorry to see it altered. With respect to the rank of Guards' officers the hon. Baronet and the House were aware that the privileges in point of rank of Guards' officers dated almost from time immemorial, and he believed it was of great advantage that it should be. It was generally recognized by the army that there should be a privileged corps in the position of the Guards to whom was especially intrusted the protection of the Sovereign, and who were also to be the first troops sent on foreign service in any great emergency. He did not believe that any great dissatisfaction had ever been expressed by the army at the exclusive privileges possessed by the Guards, nor did he ever hear that any practical inconvenience had ever resulted on active service from the youth of the field officers. With respect to the residence of officers in barracks he did not think any change would be an improvement. The non-commis-
 90
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in rising to move the Vote of £811,400, for superintending establishment of, and expenditure for, works, buildings, and repairs at home and abroad, said: Sir, I will not interpose long between the Committee and the speech of my hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) who proposes to reduce this Vote by the sum of £50,000, the amount asked for towards the improvement of the defences of Quebec; but as I have not yet said anything in explanation of the policy of the Government for the defence of Canada, and as the recent debate turned rather more on the general question of our relations with the United States than on the details of this plan, it may be convenient to the Committee if I state as shortly as I can what is the plan and what are the views of
 95 96 97 98 99 Précis of the Wars in Canada? 100 "The garrison of Quebec consisted of only one company, to these were added the seamen and marines of a sloop of war and the inhabitants of the town. The latter, both French and English, were armed, formed into companies, and showed great zeal and alacrity at this important crisis. Governor Carleton, in all, had about 1,600 bayonets. The season and the want of heavy artillery prevented the Americans from making any impression upon the defences of Quebec. It was evident that the former would not permit them to remain much longer in their situation. Governor Carleton had refused to receive a flag of truce or to enter into any sort of negotiation with them. It was, therefore, necessary either to retire or to get possession of Quebec by an escalade." "Hon. Members must remember that it is impossible to have more than a six months' campaign in this country. And supposing you were to erect works before which an enemy was compelled to sit down in the month of May, it would take him fully three months before he could bring up his supplies and siege train and protect his communications, and by the time he was ready to make a determined attack he would be overtaken by winter, be compelled to raise the siege and to go into winter quarters. In truth, our winters are our safeguard and defence." 101 "If, therefore, we can only by manning certain salient points in the country prevent the progress of invasion we are safe." "I am sure that no Member of this House, no man in this country, would hesitate, if need were, to put his hand into his pocket and give a tenth of his substance for the construction of the works required to protect the country from the ravages of the aggressor, and to secure to ourselves the inestimable blessings derived from living under the British flag." 102 103 104
 GENERAL PEEL : Sir, although a great deal of the interest and importance attached to this Vote has been already forestalled and anticipated by the debates which have taken place upon the subject of Canada, I shall, with the permission of the Committee, offer a few remarks on the subject now before us. In the course of previous debates the House has, I think, expressed its opinion, with a degree of temper and moderation which does it the greatest credit, to the effect that, without casting the slightest doubt upon the good intentions or honour of the American Government, this country has come to the determination that, if Canada be attacked by anybody, that attack should form a  casus belli, 110 "Now, over such an enormous expanse of land and water, instead of our despatching troops, vessels, and ammunition to engage, not in regular warfare, but in an endless, costly, and ignominious game of 'hide and seek,' in which we might possibly lose more than we should be permitted to capture, let England proclaim that so long as Canada shall unequivocally evince the loyalty and attachment to Great Britain which have hitherto distinguished her, any unjustifiable invasion of her territory by the army of the adjoining Republic shall, in the first instance, be instantly resented, not on her own soil, but by an infinitely cheaper and more efficacious punishment elsewhere. Thus, if the army of the Government of the Northern States fire Toronto and Hamilton, let England, instead of troubling herself to extinguish those distant flames, bombard and burn Boston and New York, If Canadian vessels are attacked on fresh water let the injury be promptly avenged by the British navy throughout the 'wide, rude,' salt, aqueous surface of the globe." 111 112 Trent 113 Trent. 114 "It is a delusion to suppose that that force," meaning the regular force now maintained in Canada "can be of any use for the defence of the country without fortifications to compensate for the comparative smallness of its numbers. Even when aided by the whole of the local militia that could at present be made available, it would, in the event of war, be obliged to retreat before the superior numbers by which it would be attacked; and it would be fortunate if it succeeded in embarking at Quebec, and putting to sea without serious defeat." 115
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that he listened to no one in the House with greater pleasure on many subjects than the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe) [who had risen at the same time], but as the question now before the Committee was of a military nature he must he pardoned for pressing his own right to address the House when called upon by the Speaker. He was glad the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) had raised this debate, as the right issue had thereby been brought fairly before the public. The noble Member for Wick (Viscount Bury) had given them in his exhaustive and most able address, an admirable description of the country, proposed to be fortified, and of the objects which those fortifications were to accomplish, from which it was impossible to draw any other conclusion than that the course proposed by the Government was the proper one to adopt. It had been contended that we ought not to defend Canada at all, but to leave her to the chances of war; but he did not think that the majority of that House or of this country would be of that opinion, and that night's Vote would show their confidence in the course which it was proposed to take. They had been told that they ought not to defend, and that they could not defend, Canada. It was upon the latter point that he wished to address the Committee. The Report of Colonel Jervois was clear and convincing on that point—more so, indeed, than the covering letter by which it was accompanied, and which had alone been presented to the House. What was proposed as to Quebec? It was to be defended by exterior works, to be constructed on the principles of modern science, which would put it out of the power of an enemy to approach sufficiently near to bombard it without first capturing these works. That was exactly what was wanted; and if the same thing was done at Montreal by the Canadians,
 147 148
 THE CHAIRMAN : Is it the pleasure of the House that the Motion of the hon. Member for West Norfolk be withdrawn? ( Cries of
 THE CHAIRMAN  then put the Question,
 "That the Item of £50,000, for the Improvement of Defences at Quebec, be omitted from the proposed Vote."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  begged his hon. and learned Friend would not persevere in this opposition. The House was well aware that this Bill was only a portion of a great measure. All the financial arrangements had been very fully discussed, and the finance Bill had passed through all the stages and had gone into the other House.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he never heard a speech at which he was more astonished than that which had just been made by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn). It might be concluded from that speech that the Government had employed a person to draw out plans, and that he had been brought before the Committee, and gave full details as to what the Government intended to do. The fact was that a clause had been introduced into the Bill to the effect that a Commission should be appointed for the purpose of determining in what manner the space should be used, and what should be the plan of the buildings, and to decide other questions relating to them. The Government, therefore, had not employed, and could not have employed, any person to make a plan of the building, or to determine in what manner all the courts were to be accommodated. What the Government did was simply to make a  primâ facie 180
 MR. COWPER  said, it was only a question of site, and there had been ample information brought before the Committee and they were unanimous in recommending the site now fixed upon. The subject was of so much importance that he hoped it would not be delayed.
 COLONEL DUNNE  objected.
 COLONEL DUNNE  rose to move that the Committee (of the Drainage and Improvement of Lands Bill) be fixed for that day six months; but being informed that the Committee had already been fixed for Monday next, said he would move that the House do now adjourn.
 MR. CRAUFORD  rose to put a question, but his voice was drowned in cries of "Hadfleld, Hadfield!"
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is proposed to take any steps to remedy the evils arising from the Consular Courts in China being the only accessible Courts for the trial of Civil and Criminal as well as the ordinary Police cases; the Consuls not being lawyers by education, and the amount of business having become very large?
 MAJOR ANSON  said, that there seemed to be a general uncertainty in men's minds with regard to the defence of Canada, and the reason no doubt was that we had no precedent to guide us. Though we had had colonies to defend before now, yet England had never been placed in the same position as she was at present with respect to Canada. In case of war with the United States, England would be the base of operations, and she would have to carry on the war at a distance of 3,000
 117 118 119
 MR. LYGON  believed the more the question was considered the more clearly would it appear that the Carey Street site was not that which was best adapted for the new courts. He therefore was of opinion that further delay was desirable, and should vote for the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LYGON : I submit, Sir, that whatever may have been read by the Clerk at the table cannot be held to have been read until the point of Order raised by the hon. Member for the King's County has been disposed of. That point of Order ought to be disposed of either by you or by the House, and it is not competent to the Clerk, not perhaps conversant with the point raised, to get rid of it by reading another Order. If ever a question of Order was fairly and legitimately raised this one has been so raised by the hon. Member for the King's County, and it must be disposed of before it is competent to the Clerk at the table to read the next Order. ["Chair, chair!"]
 MR. WALDEGRAVE LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the "Indian
 82
 MR. WALDEGRAVE LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his refusal to comply with the Prayer of a Petition from certain parties in Aberdeen on behalf of Margaret Smith or Swanson, who, in April, 1864, was sentenced to four years' penal servitude for a first offence, and that a case of theft, to which she pleaded guilty—was based on information received from the presiding Judge or other authorities in Scotland; and, if so, whether he will lay upon the table of the House Copies of the Memorial, reply, and all other relative papers?
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  wished to ask Mr. Speaker, whether the Motion for going into Committee on the Bill on Monday next had been put, as he and several Members in his neighbourhood had not heard it.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  thought that the debate might be adjourned, and that the terms of reference to the Committee ought to be enlarged.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to leave to the several North American Colonies full discretion whether they will or will not join in the new scheme for a Confederation; or whether they intend to ask Parliament to adopt any compulsory measure for enforcing it upon those who may be adverse to it?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the hon. Member who had spoken from his side of the House (Mr. Haliburton) had laughed to scorn the notion that the United States would go to war with this country. That statement, however, he could not but class with a good many of the American prophecies which had from time to time fallen from hon. Members in that House. They had for instance heard it confidently stated before now that the Americans were so enamoured of liberty, that nothing would compel them to resign their privileges and freedom; yet their President at this moment was invested with the authority of a  quasi habeas corpus 141 142 143
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that instructions had been sent to our Charge d' Affaires at Constantinople to apply for this Firman. It appeared that the Porte had sent for a Report from the Pasha of the district. The Turkish authorities were waiting for that Report, and he trusted that the Firman would be granted.
 MR. LAYARD,  in reply, said, measures were in progress for establishing a Consular Court at Shanghai, and to that Consular Court an Assistant Judge and Secretary would be appointed. All the Provincial Consular Courts would be under the jurisdiction of the Court at Shanghai, and, in case of necessity, the Judge would have the power of going on circuit, and appeals would lie from the Provincial Courts to the Court at Shanghai, and thence to the Privy Council.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I cannot say-that I entirely and heartily approve of the form in which the Vote is presented to us and I particularly disapprove of the manner in which it is introduced to us by placing a despatch upon the table of a confidential character, from an individual employed by the Government, the general result of which has been alarm, perplexity, and confusion, not only in England, and which has attracted also a degree of attention that was not desirable or necessary to what was, I hold, the common duty of the Government. I know that there have been cases in which Reports of a confidential character from officers of the Government, have been laid upon the table of the House to prepare the public mind, and also that of Parliament, to consent to some large measure, or perhaps some considerable Vote of public
 155 156 157 158 159 160
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken (Major Anson) seemed to make out that Canada was the only country in the world which it was impossible to defend; but, for himself, he could not conceive that she was in a different position from other States in Europe and other parts of the world which had powerful neighbours on their frontier, but which, he maintained, were somehow or other defensible if the inhabitants were in earnest. The question, as he took it, was, how was the frontier of Canada to be defended. If the proposal on the part of the Government was that England was to undertake the defence of Canada, then he could understand the hon. and gallant Member's argument that they were undertaking what was impossible. But he did not apprehend that the Government were undertaking anything of the kind. The proposition they were discussing was the first Vote towards fortifying Quebec and what did they undertake by that proposition? Certainly not to defend the Canadian frontier, but to provide for the security of the troops they now had there, and also for the security of stores which they now had there of great value. Last Session he (Mr. Adderley) called the attention of the House—and then not for the first time—to that very point, and he did so with these two objects—first, the security of British troops in North America, whom he felt to be in a most precarious and exposed position; and secondly, in order that this country might as soon as possible come to a clear understanding with Canada as to how much Canada would undertake for herself, and how much England was prepared to undertake for her. It was because he conceived that the Vote now before the Committee tended to accomplish both those objects that he should give it his cordial assent. It was all very well to say it was quite impossible for this country to defend 2,000 miles of frontier in Canada. It was perfectly true that such an undertaking would be absurd and impossible. But, because that is so, would anybody—would the hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken,
 120 121 122 123 124
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that there had been two distinct misunderstandings as to this Bill, otherwise it might not probably have been sent to a Select Committee. It had already been six times rejected by the House of Lords, and that was a very good reason why a decision should not be hastily forced upon the House. He should vote for the adjournment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE,  pursuant to notice, moved that the Bill be read a third time that day six months., He explained that he had declined to act upon the Select Committee, to which the Bill had been referred, because the Bill consisted so entirely of principle that a Select Committee could not by merely altering the terms of its provisions alter the scope of the Bill; the result had proved that he was not mistaken, since the Bill had come practically unaltered from the Select Committee. The proposal to refer this Bill to a Select Committee had been founded upon some expressions which fell late one evening from the right hon. Member for Wiltshire (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt), during the Session of 1860—five years ago. He (Mr. Newdegate) had subsequently represented to that right hon. Gentleman that it would be useless to refer the Bill to a Select Committee for the reasons he had already assigned, and, on reading the Bill again, Mr. Sotheron Estcourt fully concurred in this view. The House had, in fact, been entrapped into a useless proceeding, which seemed merely intended to disguise the purport of the Bill, which was to break up the compact of 1828 that had been framed by the late Sir Robert Peel, and Earl (then Lord John) Russell. When Dissenters were admitted to corporate offices, the effect of the declaration, the necessity for making which this Bill would repeal, was to require the members of municipal corporations to declare that they would not use the influence and power to which they became entitled by their office for the purpose of weakening the Church of England, as by law established, or to deprive the bishops and clergy of the property to which they are by law entitled. The House of
 187
 MR. SELWYN  said, the question referred to the Select Committee was very important—namely, to decide on the site for the courts. Several of the Members of the Committee were consistently absent, and the evidence given was all on one side. He understood that the "small number of houses" at first contemplated as necessary to be pulled down on the site chosen amounted to 343, besides other buildings, and no provision had been made for the accommodation of the large number of people who would be dispossessed of their residences. It appeared, also, that the courts would not be concentrated under one roof, but would be divided by a street, and 2J acres of ground where houses were now
 179
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that it was true that serious charges had been made against the Master of the Belton School. He had been charged with undue severity against a boy, and there was a charge of indecency to the girls. As soon as it was known at the Poor Law Board an Inspector was sent down to inquire into the matter. The Master at once admitted his fault, and tendered his resignation, which the Inspector accepted, as he was obliged to do, and handed it over to the Guardians. It rested with the Guardians, and not with the Poor Law Board, to prosecute the Master if they thought fit, and nothing which had taken place would prejudice them in doing so. The Poor Law Board, as such, had no authority to prosecute. The Correspondence, with the Report of the Inspector, might, if required, be laid on the table of the House.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that he rose for the purpose of calling attention to the political theory as to the relations of the mother country to the colonies propounded by the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Mr. Shaw Lefevre). On one point he thoroughly agreed with the hon. and learned Member. The point to which he referred was often passed over by Gentlemen in the course of these discussions, and was naturally, perhaps, much better appreciated in the colonies than it was in the mother country—it was that Canada was likely to be involved in a war over which she had no control, and in which, if there were any blame, she was blameless. She would, in fact, be involved in a war simply on account of her connection with this Empire. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that in the case of a war he would like to see Canada in the position of a neutral, and that he should be glad if she could escape the horrors of a war. His (Mr. Chichester Fortescue's) answer was that such a state of things implied independence, and that Canada herself did not desire to separate from us. But it was not enough for us to wish Canada to be neutral in case of a war with the United States—the question was, whether the United States would permit her neutrality? It was not likely that they would give us such an advantage; and he thought, therefore, that the hon. Member's theory was likely to
 144 145 146
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, this debate has happily been characterized by the same spirit which characterized the former debate on this subject. It may be referred to without the smallest apprehension of exciting any feeling of hostility between us and that great country on the other side of the Atlantic, with whom we are united by so many and by such close ties of intimacy; and I should not have referred at all to this part of the question at the close of the debate if it had not been for the remarks that were made and the inquiries addressed to me by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin). My hon. Friend asked me whether I could repeat the assurances that our relations with the United States were perfectly friendly, and whether I could give him any information with respect to the Reciprocity Treaty, with respect to the maintenance of steamers on
 161 162 163 164
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that the Government had no other intention on this subject than that which had already been communicated to the House. They had expressed their entire approval of the scheme, and would be ready, if it were adopted by the Provincial Legislatures, to propose the necessary measures with the view of carrying it out.
 COLONEL GREVILLE : I beg to ask, Sir, whether we are considering the Drainage Bill, which was ordered to be read a second time, or the Qualification for Offices Abolition Bill?
 MR. BENTINCK,  in moving the Amendment of which he had given notice, that the Item of £50,000 for the Improvement of the Defences at Quebec be omitted from the proposed Vote, said, he should discuss the question in the spirit in which his noble Friend the Under Secretary for War had asked him to discuss it, and would abstain from referring to the probabilities of a war between this country and the United States. He fully admitted, and he appreciated what he believed to be the feeling of the country, that Great Britain was bound to maintain at any cost the integrity of the Canadian territory; and it was in no opposition to that view that he was about to make his remarks. He wished to observe, also, that except in one particular, to which he should presently allude, he thought that the Report of Colonel Jervois, who bore the highest reputation as a military man, was worthy of the credence of Parliament and the country; but the view he took of the subject placed it far beyond any question of military detail. He was desirous of saying, likewise, that he had no wish to embarrass Her Majesty's Government in the conduct of what must be a most difficult and delicate affair. Nor could he be held guilty of raising the question of the probability
 105 106 107 108 109
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the noble Lord had correctly construed the statement with which he opened his remarks. There was no man in that House more fully impressed than he was with the conviction that both the honour and interest of this country were bound up with the defence of Canada. The question between him and the Government was not as to the end but as to the means. He still retained the opinion he originally expressed; but he had discovered during the debate that a large majority of the House were of a contrary opinion. He had also to thank the hon. Member for Birmingham for the perfect frankness with which he had let the cat out of the bag, and let him understand the position in which he was placed. He found, after the hon. Gentleman's speech, that if he proceeded to a division he would be placed in two positions, both of which he strongly deprecated. In the first place, he would be giving a vote which would be open to great misconstruction, because he would find himself in the lobby with a number of distinguished Members of the House giving the same vote, but having entirely different views on the subject. Another position was, that he would be obtaining the support of those Gentlemen under false pretences. He deprecated both positions. He must decline on that occasion to ask the Committee to go to a division, and if hon. Members on the other side of the House forced a division, in order to save himself from misconstruction he would take no part in that division. The hon. Member in conclusion, said, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman was aware that ten times more flogging took place in Middlesex than in all Ireland?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any Report is made to Government of all the cases of flogging in prisons, by order of Magistrates, for offences committed out of prison, and also for misconduct in prison, without publicity being given of the offences charged, the evidence in support of the charges, the punishment ordered, the ages of the offenders, the number of lashes inflicted in each case, and other particulars; and, if no such Report is made, whether it is his intention to adopt measures to put an end to secret flogging in prisons without a public trial?
 MR. HADFIELD  begged to move that this Bill be now read a third time.
 MR. HUNT  desired to offer a few remarks upon the extraordinary scene which they had just witnessed. He could not help thinking that such scenes did not contribute to the dignity of the House. He had no feeling whatever with regard to the Bill in question, but he had voted against its second reading, upon the principle that it was undesirable that Bills should be read a second time before they had been placed in the hands of the Members. If the rule that the Clerk should read the Bill on such occasions were not obsolete, Members would be careful to have Bills printed before the Motion for the second reading was brought before the House, because they would know that it would be practically within the power of any Member to stop the second reading of a Bill. He hoped that the scene which had taken place this evening would be a warning to them for the future, and prevent any Member from bringing Bills before the House for second reading until they had been printed. He hoped that the House would consent to the adjournment, because he believed that in the present excited state in which Members now were, it would not be wise or well to discuss such an important measure as that of which the third reading had been moved—the Qualification for Offices Abolition Bill. He, therefore, thought it would be well that the House should consent to adjourn.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, he objected to this Vote, also to the Votes for the fortifications of Halifax and Bermuda, because they inaugurated a new policy of rival armaments, fleets, and armies, in reference to America, such as that which had so long been the curse of Europe; and to avoid this it would be wiser, in his opinion, to wait till the end of the war, in the expectation that when it is over the American Government will be anxious to disband their troops and to revert to that happy state of freedom from armaments which was its condition before the war; and his belief was, that there was no difference between us and the United States which might not be settled by means of amicable arrangement, or, if necessary, by resort to arbitration. He would not deal with the strategic difficulties in defending Canada, which had been so well urged by the hon. Member for Calne. There were, in his opinion, political reasons which rendered it far better for Canada as well as ourselves that we should not commence the proposed fortifications with the intention of maintaining in that colony a large force of British troops. There were two ways in which war might break out with the United States, it might originate in consequence of difficulties with Canada, or, on the other hand, with England; and it appeared to him that the one country ought to be in a position to repudiate, if it should deem right, the policy pursued by the other. Because, though England and Canada were one country in the sense that
 139 Trent, 140
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, that if it should go forth that we would do nothing for the defence of our Canadian fellow-subjects the patriotic movement going on among them would be arrested, and the Canadians would not take the proper steps to make the country defensible against aggression. He confessed, on his part, a feeling of the deepest disappointment at the smallness of the sum the Government proposed to take for the defences of Canada. Still he thought that by an expenditure of £50,000, Quebec could be made by means of earthworks more defensible than it was at present. The smallness of the Vote, however, was not a ground for opposing it. He thought more money should have been proposed by Government, and he considered that money should have been expended in other ways than those now projected. He conceived that the best way of defending Canada was to give her the Imperial guarantee to enable her to carry out her great works of railroad communication; in order that she might in emergencies gather together her spare and scattered population, and in fact double her material resources. He concurred in thinking that if we went to war with America we should have to trust in a great measure to the daring and enterprize of our seamen, and therefore he thought it a great mistake on the part of the Government that they bad not put Bermuda in a proper state of defence, and neglected the fortifications of Halifax. It was from the latter place that, by means of a railway running to Quebec, provisions and materials of war would have to be conveyed to the British troops. The weak point in the American armour was not on the Canadian frontier, nor on the Atlantic, but in the Pacific; and he looked in vain in the Estimates for any Votes for defences on
 116
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  also maintained that the Bill ought not to be hurried through the House, adding that the expediency of selecting the Thames Embankment as a site had not been sufficiently discussed.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I shall ask the attention of the House for a very few minutes, If the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) should divide the House I shall go into the same lobby with him. I
 165 166 167 168 169 170
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had moved the adjournment of the House had, he presumed, done so with a view to prevent the House going on with the second reading of the Qualification for Offices Abolition Bill. ["No, no!"] He was very glad, then, to
 184
 MR. SPEAKER : The Drainage and Improvement of Lands (Ireland) Provisional Orders Confirmation Bill has been read a second time. ["No, no!"] The Bill has been read a second time, and the Committee has been fixed for Monday.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that that question had been disposed of.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member (Mr. Hadfield) has moved that the Qualification for Offices Abolition Bill be read a third time.
 MR. SPEAKER : I have already stated to the House that in my opinion, according to our usages at the present day, the Drainage of Lands (Ireland) Bill has been read a second time.
 MR. SPEAKER : It is perfectly true that the Bill was ordered to be read a second time; and it was read a second time in the ordinary and regular course of procedure. There is no doubt that, according to a usage which is quite obsolete, the Clerk may be called upon to read a Bill; but the Bill has been read in the regular, usual manner, according to the ordinary form of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : It appears there has been some misunderstanding in the House. The next Order has been read by the Clerk—the Clerk has read the next Order.
 MR. SPEAKER : The House has ordered the Bill to be now read a second time, and that order must be carried into effect.
 MR. HENNESSY : I think, Sir, I am now in order in rising to order. The House has resolved by a large majority that the Bill should be now read a second time, and as it has not been seen by a single Irish Member, I move that it be read by the Clerk at the table.
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to address the House; but was met with cries of "Order!"
 MR. HENNESSY  said, after the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, a Member of the Committee, he thought it was the duty of the House to adjourn this debate, and he therefore begged to move that the debate be adjourned.
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to call the attention of the Home Secretary to a case which had just occurred of very unusual importance. He thought the present combination in the iron districts demanded the attention of the Government as well as of the House. He would preface the observations he had to make by quoting a short passage from Adam Smith, who, speaking of strikes, said—
 "Masters are always and everywhere in a sort of tacit but constant and uniform combination not to raise the wages of labour above their actual rate. Masters, too, sometimes enter into particular combinations to keep the wages of labour even below this rate. Such combinations, however, are frequently resisted by a contrary defensive combination of the workmen." 91 "That we get up a requisition and present it to the Mayor, requesting him to convene a public meeting at his earliest convenience to take into consideration the best means of supporting the 5,609 men who are locked out at present; and that this association pledges itself to refuse any aid to any person or persons who, by any riotous conduct, shall place person or property in danger, or otherwise commit a breach of the peace; and the like person or persons shall be liable to forfeit any benefit from the association hereafter." "Now, the Brierley Hill Executive had some weeks ago declared their opinion that the North
 92
 MR. HENNESSY : With great submission, Sir, I venture to point out the fact that this Bill had not been printed by the Government and was not in our hands, and I called upon the Clerk at the table
 182
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, The reason of the delay in completing the necessary arrangements for extending to the Clerks and Officers in the principal Registry of Her Majesty's Court of Probate the system of Classification as adopted in other Departments of Her Majesty's Civil Service, whereby progressive annual increases are made in the salaries of the  employés?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has seen any necessity for inquiring into the conduct of the Police on the trial of S. Pelizzioni for murder; and, if so, to what conclusion he has come on that subject? He put the question on the part of a very worthy gentleman, Mr. Negretti.
 SIR JOHN TRELAWNY  said, he had given notice of two or three Questions which he wished to put to the Under Secretary of State for War, but before doing so he desired to make a few explanatory observations. He held the army might be looked upon as an institution which was improvable, or an institution which was
 87 88 89
 MR. DAWSON-DAMER  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he is aware that at a short distance below Hampton Court Palace there was last summer hardly four feet of water in the River Thames at the deepest part, and that when the Waterworks near Kingston were pumping the river ceased to flow over the weir at Teddington during the period of such pumping; whether any of the sewage at Kingston flows ultimately into the Thames above Teddington weir; and whether he is aware that there are three Water Companies at Hampton alone,
 80
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  had been assured that the Bill was merely a formal measure, and in accordance with that assurance, he had voted for its second reading.
 MR. RICHARD LONG  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to introduce any Bill for the amendment of the Highways Act this Session?
 MR. HANBURY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether instructions have been given to Her Majesty's Charge d' Affaires at Constantinople to apply for a Firman, without which the Reverend Mr. Zellar is unable to build a Church at Nazareth?
 MR. LOWE : I have been so frequently alluded to in the course of this debate—although I have taken no part in it hitherto—that I trust the House will allow me to offer a few remarks in my own justification. I should be very sorry to be obliged to go over, however hastily, the ground I tried to cover the other night, but it is absolutely necessary that I should just restate the points I then took up, I have listened very attentively to the debate to-night, and, with the exception of the gallant officer who has just spoken, who boldly affirmed the proposition, not one of the hon. Members who have addressed you have expressed their belief that Canada can be defended. We have heard a good deal as to the honour, duty, and expediency, but nothing as to the possibility, of defending Canada; now, it is not a question of honour, duty, or interests, but of possibility, and it was upon the latter point I rested my argument on a former occasion, and it is upon the same point I feel bound to rest it still. The right on and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) told us that England was bound to defend Canada, the noble Lord the Member for Wick (Viscount Bury) said it would not be dignified, and another hon. Member that it would not be honourable to desert her, and the Under Secretary for the Colonies said it was our duty to defend her, but not one said it was possible to defend her. The real question which lies at the bottom of all this talk, which we must look manfully in the face, and which we must answer to our own minds and consciences—to God and to man—is, can we defend her? I have heard nothing to-night among the various arguments used by those hon. Gentlemen who have addressed you, and who are so competent to speak on the subject, to alter the impression I hold as to the impossibility of defending that country—except the statement of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who has just sat down, who has given us a most unqualified opinion that it can be defended. I will not put my own opinion against that of the hon. and gallant Gentleman on a military question; but I will refer him to a sentence of Lord Bacon, wherein he says—
 149 "Authority is a bow, the arrow from which derives strength from the hand that draws it while argument is like a cross-bow, as powerful in the hands of a child as in those of a giant." 150 Nemo tenetur ad impossibile 151 152 153 154
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Commanding Officers of the various Corps in New Zealand have preferred any claims to the proceeds arising from the sale of lands captured from the enemy, and whether the Government has any intention of paying them a part of those proceeds as prize money?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that he was informed that at a short distance below Hampton Court Palace on certain days last summer there was hardly four feet of water in the Thames—not "at the deepest part," but in a shallow part of the river. He was also informed, however, that the river never ceased to flow over the weir at Teddington during the time of the pumping at Kingston Waterworks. With regard to the sewage at Kingston flowing into the Thames, he understood that a very small portion of the sewage had for some years gone into the Thames. An injunction had been obtained from the Vice Chancellor to prevent the drainage from the new system of works at Kingston from being carried into the Thames, and in a short time this would be settled by the Court of Chancery. As to the Water Companies which were said to draw such large quantities of water from the Thames above Teddington, they had exercised their powers under their Acts of Parliament, and all that the Conservancy Board could do was to prevent them from taking more water from the Thames than their Acts of Parliament permitted.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, the present might have turned out a very inconvenient debate if it had taken the inconvenient form which many had anticipated—that the Vote proposed by the noble Lord could not be acceded to without exciting a feeling of hostility on the part of that country against whose aggressions they were bound to erect fortifications. He wished to disabuse the minds of hon. Members with reference to the probability of a war with America. He knew something of Canada. Sixty winters had passed over his head before he removed from America to this country, and he would venture to say that he knew something of that country, and of its climate and its people. He had not the least notion that the Americans wished or intended to make war upon this country. They were too sagacious a people for that, and knew their own interests too well; they knew their own inability to attain the object they desired—namely, the annexation of the British provinces. There were two good and sufficient reasons to prevent the Americans from entertaining the foolish project of going to war with England. The noble Lord (Viscount Bury) had alluded to the debt of the United States, and he had not underrated its amount. It was a larger debt, taken with its interests and its  et ceteras, 134 Alabama vox et præterea nihil. 135 136 137 138
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to certain Returns lately presented to this House, showing that 1,138 persons (not being soldiers or sailors) of various ages from six to sixty-three years, have been recently flogged in England and Wales, receiving from six to fifty lashes, in many instances by the order of only one Magistrate, and frequently for very petty offences or acts of misconduct. And will he explain to the House these three cases, among numerous others of a similar character:—1. The case of a person, aged sixty-three years, who received twelve cuts of a cat for "refusing to work" in the House of Correction at Falkingham. 2. The case of a child, aged six years, who received twelve lashes at Knutsford on the 6th of June, 1864, besides seven days' hard labour, for "stealing one pocket-knife." 3. The case of a child, aged twelve years, sentenced on the 3rd of November, 1863, by the Reverend Algernon Peyton and Thomas Richardson, Esquire, for "stealing three gingerbread cakes," to fourteen days' hard labour, and to receive twelve Strokes with a birch rod, which were inflicted on the 11th of No-
 78
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask, Whether it is the intention of the Government to send to the scene of war in the United States any Military or Medical Officers to study and Report on the progress of Military and Medical science as it is exemplified in the war in that Country?
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it is true that serious charges have been made against the Master of the Belton School in the Wycombe Union; whether the Poor Law Board do not intend to prosecute him, but have allowed him to escape; whether he would lay upon the table of the House all Correspondence between the Board and the Guardians of the Wycombe Union on the subject, and any other papers that relate thereto, and what steps the Poor Law Board intend to take in the matter?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman will cause inquiry to he made into the particulars of the second case mentioned by the hon. Member (Mr. Scully), in which twelve lashes were inflicted at Knutsford upon a child six years old?
 MR. WATKIN  said, that he felt concerned to hear the United States so often spoken of in the debate as "the enemy;" and if he thought that the Vote before the Committee would in any manner increase international irritation, he should regret his vote in favour of the proposition of the Government. As it was, he felt that he could not quite agree with the policy the Vote indicated. That policy was one of armament against an enemy. The proposition, in his opinion, went either too far or not far enough. It did not go far enough to inspire undoubted confidence and to deter attack by providing for absolute defence; and still, it went far enough to raise suspicion, and to excite or to aggravate a frontier feeling. But he thought that our actual relations with the United States were guiding considerations in reference to the policy of this Vote. Government ought, therefore, to tell the
 130 131 132 "Some eighteen passengers, per  Belgian, Belgian. 133
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought the Attorney General had given sufficient reasons why the House should not proceed with the measure now. The Committee appeared to have had no information at all about the courts brought before them.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  objected to proceeding with the Bill, and stated that not one of the three Members of the Committee to which the Bill had been referred who had been nominated by the Committee of Selection, had ever attended the Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would inquire into that case. At present he knew nothing of the particulars.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no such intention.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he had declined to comply with the request of the memorial in question that the sentence might be mitigated; but he had sent the memorial to the Judge, and he had not yet received the Judge's answer.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I was not at all aware that the hon. and learned Gentleman intended to raise this Question in the House to-night, having only given notice on a former evening of a Question which he would then have answered had it been put. He regretted that the hon. and
 93 94
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that he had not found it necessary to institute any
 85 86
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that he was afraid he could not give any explanation with regard to these cases. As the hon. Member had stated, the Return contained 1,138 cases of flogging, but then it extended over a good many years, since the Acts had been in operation. All he could do was to state the law under which these punishments were inflicted. By far the greater number were inflicted on juvenile offenders under what was known as the Juvenile Offenders' Act 10 & 11  Vict. Geo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : No Report was made upon cases of flogging by sentence of the Magistrates for offences committed out of prison, but an exact record was kept of floggings inflicted for prison offences, and of the circumstances under which they were inflicted, and it was the duty of the Inspector of Prisons to call attention to any cases in which he believed there had been an infraction of the law.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Has not the Order of the Day been read for the third reading of the Qualification for Offices Abolition Bill? ["No! no!"] I do not ask the noble Lord or the hon. Baronet, but I ask you, Sir, whether the Order for the third reading of that Bill has not been read, and whether, therefore, the hon. Gentleman is in order in discussing the Irish Drainage Bill. ["Chair, chair!"]
 SIR GRAHAM MONTGOMERY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Why capitation allowances are issued to Volunteer Serjeant Instructors belonging to the Permanent Staff of Corps, and are refused for the Serjeant Instructors attested as belonging to Administrative Battalions, and whether it is intended to continue such a distinction as to those allowances?
 MR. MOWBRAY,  as a member of the Committee by which this Bill had been considered, begged leave to remind the hon. Members for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) and Birmingham (Mr. Bright) of the circumstances connected with the Bill. Those hon. Members should recollect the Church Rates Abolition Bill, which, after being passed by a majority, had ultimately been rejected, the time afforded for reflection I by the action of the other House having induced a change of opinion. Therefore, it was not altogether safe to rely upon the fact that this Bill had been adopted by the House on former occasions. The hon. Member for Birmingham relied upon the fact of this Bill having been referred to a Select Committee, with the assent of the right hon. Gentleman the late Member for North Wilts (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt), whose loss they all regretted. It was true I that that right hon. Gentleman did recommend that course; but in doing so he did not foresee the course that would be adopted. The Committee only sat for! two hours, and he attended it, believing that the advocates of the measure were willing to listen to some fair terms of: arrangement or compromise. The hon. Member for Sheffield based his Bill upon two grievances; first, he complained that, under the Act of 1828, it was necessary that all the minor officers in the service of corporations should make the declaration, and he complained that in Manchester the Act was in very bad odour, as a great number of nightsoil men and scavengers were brought under its operation. In order to meet that objection, he (Mr. Mowbray) proposed that such minor officers as the hon. Member referred to should be relieved from the necessity of making the declaration, and that it should be required only for mayors, town councillors, town clerks, and recorders. The other complaint was that whereas all high officers of State were allowed six months before they were called upon to make the declaration, all municipal officers were required to make it immediately upon entering into office. To meet that objection he proposed to place municipal officers upon the same footing as the high officers of State. Those propositions, however, did not meet the views of the advocates of this measure, whose real object was, he believed, not so much to get rid of practical grievances as to erase from the statute book a declaration that the Church of England was intimately and permanently connected with
 186
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  also supported the proposal for an adjournment of the debate. He believed that the question of the site of the Thames Embankment had never been sufficiently considered.
 MR. BOVILL  wished the debate to be adjourned.
 VISCOUNT BURY  said, that having some acquaintance with Canada, he wished to make one or two observations on this Vote. The first question in every mind was whether England would defend Canada. He believed that there were not three men within the walls of that House who did not believe that the matter was already settled for us. Every one had concluded that it was inconsistent with the dignity of Great Britain to yield up to the ravages of a foreign army any possessions that formed part of the territory of the Crown. That question might be regarded, then, as already settled. During the whole time that Canada had been under the protection of the British Crown it had been known that any attack on its frontier would be an attack made upon England. If England ever came to a different conclusion, it would be her duty to give the Canadians notice of the termination of that understanding; but until we had done so, and until the period of that notice had expired, no one would think it consistent with the duty of the English Government to recommend the discontinuance of that protection. He would not say that at some future time Canada would not be obliged to defend itself, or that the time might not soon come when the Canadians would be in a condition to declare their independence. Many things had, however, to come to pass before that event occurred, and, when it did arrive, it would be necessary to give notice of the intention of this country to withdraw from its protection of Canada and to give the Canadians time to organize a system of defence for themselves. If that were the conclusion, we must see what could be done under the present circumstances, entirely divesting ourselves of the idea that it was impossible to defend Canada. There was only one possible enemy by whom the Canadas could be attacked, and on all bauds we were frightened by the immense forces at the disposal of the United States.
 125 126 point d'appui 127 128 129
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sorry that we shall not have the vote of the hon. Member for Birmingham; but I thank him for the compliment which he has paid to the Government. He says that the present proposal is a specimen of the usual conduct pursued by us—that is to say, we have made a proposal which I think the result will show is supported by the great majority of the House, and therefore I accept the compliment which he pays us—namely, that our usual and general course is so shaped as to receive their usual and general support. Sir, I should hope that the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) who has moved this Amendment might think, from the course which the debate has taken, that it would be well for him not to ask the House to come to a division upon it. He himself, if I did not misunderstand him, did not maintain that we ought not to defend Canada, or deny-that we are bound in honour and in interest to do so; all he wished us to do was to postpone the present Vote for further information or for some other inquiry which he desired should be made. But I think he will have noticed that, with only three exceptions or so, the Vote has met with the general approval of all who have participated in the discussion. My right hon.
 171 172 173 174 175
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Perhaps Mr. Speaker will have the goodness to tell us what is the Question last put from the Chair.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the promoters of the Bill had agreed to make the exercise of their powers dependent on the Commissioners of Supply. He thought it would have been better if the Prison Board, before coming to Parliament, had communicated with the Commissioners of Supply. However he should not oppose the measure. He (the Lord Advocate) was about this evening to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the general law, and if that law was altered so as to allow the Prison Board to spread their assessment over a period of years and to borrow upon their security, there would not be any need of other legislation, as that would meet the difficulties which had arisen.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that if it were the wish of the House that Vote 18 should not be taken till the Report of the Committee had been presented, he would not object to its postponement, although, of course, its postponement would be attended with some inconvenience.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, the gentlemen to whom he was anxious that justice should be done were far distant from this country, and were not aware of any proceedings going on in that House with reference to them. He could not think the question raised by his hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had been satisfactorily answered by the right hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. These officers had been invited by the Government in England to take service in the Ionian Islands, and it was a most miserable quibble to say that these officers were the servants of the Government of the Ionian Islands. They were employed by the Imperial Government, and when that Government thought right to bring to a close the period of service of these officers in the Ionian Islands, by withdrawing from the protectorate of those islands, the Government felt bound to give them a compensation, which had always been given in similar circumstances. The moral obligation was incurred not by the Government of the Ionian Islands, but by the Government of England. It was, he knew, perfectly competent for the Imperial Government to negotiate with the Ionian Islands and say when certain arrangements took place the English Government would be at a certain expense, and therefore the Government of the Ionian Islands should recoup the amount which the Imperial Government would have to pay by way of compensation to these officers. To hand the officers over to the Greek Government was to say, "We admit our moral liability, but will not give you our cheque, but that of a young friend of ours, and we hope it will be soon honoured." It turned out from the statement of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (Mr. Layard) that although the
 209
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he denied that the great number of these  employés employés employés 213 Hansard,
 MR. PEEL  said, that as his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade wished to reserve himself for a question that was to come on later in the evening, he would say a few words upon the Motion. There was no doubt that, under certain circumstances, a work of the nature indicated by the hon. Member, well executed, and brought out promptly, would be an advantage, inasmuch as they would have presented in a portable shape the information now spread through voluminous Re-
 220 in extenso Statistical Abstracts Hansard, Annual Register 221
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question seemed to be taking two forms. It was said that a great many Parliamentary Papers were printed that were useless; and then, on the other hand, it was proposed that somebody should have something for printing digests of these useless papers. But Parliamentary Papers, to be really useful, must be full. Suppose they had set a wise man to digest the Danish Papers. What would he have had to do? Would he have had to come to a conclusion upon
 222 in extenso, Statistical Abstract Abstract
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to learn from the noble Marquess the reasons which induced the Government to increase their barrack accommodation while they contemplated a reduction in the number of our troops. He perceived that there was an Estimate for the purchase of Warley barracks. Those barracks were sold to the East India Company, and he wished to know whether they were to be purchased back from the Company, and, if so, whether at the same or at an increased price. There was also an item for the purchase of land and additions to the infantry barracks at Windsor upon which he should like to receive some information. Those barracks were only required for the accommodation of Her Majesty's Guards. But as there was to be a reduction in the number of men in the battalions of the Guards, and as the barracks were considered large enough for that portion of our army when they were maintained at their full strength, he wished to know why additional accommodation was now required for them. There was an item, too, for the conversion of Haslar barracks into a hospital. He never knew any barrack that was more unfit for conversion into a hospital than Haslar Barracks. The expense would be £7,500, and he saw no necessity whatever for this step. Under the head of Woolwich a sum of £26,000 was taken "for erecting stabling for the military train and for converting the garrison hospital into a barrack." He should like to know what would be the cost of each of these operations, and what troops the hospital, when converted, was to receive. He regretted that Parliament had given its assent to the erection of a new hospital at Woolwich because the old hospital had been considered to afford ample accommodation for the sick of the
 244 245
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that in referring to the item of £10,000 for stabling of a more permanent character than that at present existing in camp at Aldershot, he wished to know whether Government intended to make any change with regard to that military station. Nothing could be more useful than to have a camp of instruction during the summer. But it was the universal feeling among the officers of the army that a sufficient amount of training for the troops might be obtained by placing them under canvas during the summer months, without compelling them to undergo the inconvenience and discomfort of living in huts during the winter, especially considering the short period the troops had to remain in England. The hardships undergone by the soldiers at Aldershot were regarded as one of the greatest objections to a military life; and, therefore, he was desirous of knowing whether it was the intention of Government to perpetuate the occupation of Aldershot, as would appear to be the case by their proposal to erect permanent stables there. He further asked to be informed why the general commanding the forces at Aldershot was obliged to rent a house two or three miles away from the camp, while there were three empty huts in its proximity suitable for his accommodation, reserved for the use of high official personages. He thought it a pity that the commander should not live on the spot, for, to compare the practice here with that of France, he (Sir Harry Verney) had visited
 246
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that he objected to the system adopted by the War Department of increasing the amounts originally voted by the House for specific works by certain additional sums which, as no notice was given of them, might be passed over without due inquiry. He also objected to the throwing away £3,000 for improving the defences of the Tower of London, which could be riddled through and through by guns from batteries placed above them, say at the Trinity House, which were exposed to musketry fire from every store, and St. Katharine's Docks, and which could not exist an hour if attacked by modern artillery. He had himself some years since, when Clerk of the Ordnance, with the assistance of the Secretary at War, put a stop to these ridiculous works. He did not know whether barracks were wanted there, but he was glad to see expenses were to be incurred for drainage and other works at Gibraltar, which he trusted would include the supply of water to Point Europa, where some years since the soldiers were compelled to buy it.
 247
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that he concurred in the remarks which had been made as to the enormous sums spent at Alder-shot. There had never been any system more mismanaged than our camp system, and for our army it was one of the greatest curses that had ever existed. There was one point which particularly struck him in the Army Estimates year after year, and that was the increase in the establishments. Great credit had been taken for reductions, but the reduction in the Army Estimates for the year had not been caused by any
 248
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Before the noble Lord answers the various inquiries that have been put to him, I wish to ask him a question with reference to the items charged in the Estimates for the defences of Bermuda and Halifax. I find both in the Army and Navy Estimates an unusual number of Votes of the greatest possible importance to the defences both at home and abroad. The Estimates, on account of which these Votes are to be taken, include in the aggregate a very large sum of money, especially for our home defences; but I find that in almost every case insignificant sums only, comparatively speaking, are taken for the present year. And I cannot help regarding with some suspicion the motives of the Government in asking this year for portions of those Votes, so entirely insignificant both with regard to the magnitude of the objects in view and with the total sum to be expended. A worse or more unworthy policy I can hardly imagine than that when a Government has decided that a large sum ought to he expended in constructing important works for the defence of the country—and they have no reason to suppose that Parliament will take exception to them—they should be spreading the Votes over a great number of years; and I can suppose no other reason for anything so unprecedented of itself than timidity of swelling the Estimates for the current year. It is both unwise and impolitic, and there can be no doubt that a desire to keep down the expenditure is the reason for proposing so small a Vote for the defences of Canada. I now find there is a Vote of £35,000 for Bermuda, and also a Vote of £35,000 for Halifax, and what I wish to ask the noble Marquess is, whether or not he is prepared to state upon his official responsibility that these two sums are as much as can be properly expended in the current year? If he is not prepared. to do that, I think the Government are failing in their duty in not asking for a larger sum. I will accept the noble Marquess's assurance in the face of Parliament on his official responsibility that more than
 249
 MR. AYRTON  thought that the Government was to be commended for not making a larger demand for those works. It appeared to him that the course they had taken was a very natural one, especially in the last Session of a Parliament. The Government would shortly have to account to the constituencies, and therefore it was natural that at the present moment they should be more than usually mindful of the public interest. The Government were not to be blamed for not proposing to expend more on these very unsatisfactory establishments abroad, in order to gratify hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that with reference to the "allowance to those officers of Royal Engineers especially employed," increased from £766 last year to £1,150, it had been caused by the fact that this year we had undertaken new works at Bermuda, in Canada and at Halifax. For the same reason there was a charge for additional draughtsmen who must be employed at the commencement of those works to prepare the plans necessary for the contractors. It did not follow that they would be employed during the whole progress of the works. The increase in the Vote for clerks at the War Office was occasioned by the transfer of those charges from Vote 18 to this Vote. Objection had been taken to the Vote of £60,000 towards the purchase money of Warley Barracks, which formerly belonged to the Indian Government. It was resolved at the amalgamation of the Indian and Imperial armies to take those barracks for the Crown. He could not give the former history of these barracks, or answer the question whether they had been originally built by the Indian Government, but the price paid was arrived at by a proper valuation made by competent persons. Some remarks had been made upon the item for the reform of the eastern defences, Tower of London; but, as the Vote was only £2,000—the residue of £11,500—to complete the work, it was hardly worth while to criticize it. It was not pretended that the work ever would be of the least use for defence against an enemy; but, as all the ancient fortifications of the Tower of London were falling into decay, if it were wished to preserve
 250 251 252 253
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, that the noble Lord had said nothing about the Windsor Barracks.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, this Vote was owing to the fact that the infantry barracks at Windsor were extremely confined, and not sufficient for the accommodation of troops according to the modern notions of accommodation. They might be made much superior to what they were now, but the greatest fault was their confined space, which rendered it necessary to purchase additional land to expand them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he must acknowledge that the noble Marquess had answered his questions in a manner which showed that he was thoroughly conversant with the complicated details of these Estimates. Still, the answer he had given to one or two of his questions rendered it necessary to ask him one or two more. He could assure the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) that Gentlemen on that side of the House had not urged the Government to expenditure on these matters; all they had done was, when the Government had stated on their responsibility that such expenditure was necessary for the interests of the country, to suggest that it should not be spread over a period of time thereby causing unnecessary delay. The noble Marquess said that Colonel Jervois had recommended the expenditure of £35,000 at Halifax, but that he had recommended at Bermuda a larger sum than was asked for. What was the difference between the sum actually taken and that recommended? He also wished to know whether the Government had come to any decision as to the employment of convict labour on these works at Bermuda.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask why the labour of soldiers—engineers—which was known to be so much cheaper in the erection of such works, was not employed. He believed they could easily be spared.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he thought he had a right, before answering the right hon. Baronet's question, to protest against its nature, though he did not object to answer it. The Committee could not expect that any one representing a Department in that House
 254
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the question was founded on the information given by the noble Lord himself to the House.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he had stated that Colonel Jervois had been sent to Canada to inspect the works there, but did not imagine that the Committee would require the precise nature of his recommendations. As regarded the works at Quebec, Halifax, and Bermuda, Lord De Grey represented to Colonel Jervois that it was desirable no unnecessary delay should occur in their construction, and therefore asked him what amount of money could be expended during this year. £35,000 was mentioned for Halifax, £40,000 for Bermuda, and £50,000 for Quebec. But it was thought by the Government that £35,000 was as much as could be usefully spent in Bermuda this year. The Government were much obliged to the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) for defending them, but they had thought it right to take in every case the largest sum which they thought could be spent in the year.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : What about convict labour?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that question was still under discussion. It had been thought right to refer it to a Committee, which, if it had not met already, would meet in a day or two.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, the Government had initiated whatever irregularity there was by publishing Colonel Jervois's Report, and he was surprised they should now object to give information. But why had Colonel Jervois been sent out there at all? We had in Canada the flower of our army, comprising several distinguished engineer officers, and why were not they consulted? Colonel Jervois was one of our most distinguished officers, but then he had seen no service, and had been Secretary of that Defence Commission which had entailed upon us that extraordinary expenditure for fortifications which had made us the laughing stock of the whole world. Just as the currier thought there was nothing like leather, so with Colonel Jervois, there was nothing like fortifications.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he did not in the least object to any questions which hon. Gentlemen might like
 255
 LORD NAAS  was quite aware of the great advantage of employing convicts upon public works wherever it was possible, but he had on a former occasion brought the full question of the Bermuda establishment before the House, and the evils which had been shown to exist were so great that the Government resolved to discontinue the establishment as soon as possible, and they had since done so. If it were intended to send convicts there now, it would be necessary to go to the great expense of providing gaols and establishments for their use, for that House would never sanction a return to the horrors of the hulk system as practised at Bermuda some years ago. He hoped, therefore, whatever Department of the Government had this proposal under consideration would take full time before coming to a conclusion. He believed the expense they would have to go to if they were to send convicts there would be far greater than any possible advantage which could accrue to the public service.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was glad to see that the expenditure upon this department had somewhat diminished, and hoped it would still further decrease. The Council of Military Education cost £8,300 a year, He wanted to know whether the 200 cadets whose charge for messing was upon the Estimates formed the whole number at Woolwich. He had taken the trouble of adding up the number of persons who ministered to the education of these 200 gentlemen, and he found that they amounted to 147 in all. That was a very large and expensive establishment for 200 cadets. He did not think the double staff at all necessary. It appeared extraordinary to require a large military staff, who wore red coats, for purposes of discipline, who did nothing, and then a large educational staff, who taught the cadets something. If private persons were to establish a proprietary school they would not think of having a double establishment. It was rather an extravagant educational system when 200 cadets cost the sum of £36,000. There were also about 200 cadets at the Military College, costing for their education about the same sum. He thought the Government might find a more economical mode of doing the business.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that of the £36.000 for the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich the cadets themselves paid £30,960, so that the country only lost between £5,000 and £6,000. The Sand-hurst College was not so self-supporting, for it cost the country about £20,000. With regard to the establishment at Chelsea, the schoolmasters which it furnished were the most insubordinate set of men that could be found anywhere, and the consequence was that the officers did not take the same interest in regimental schools that they did formerly. Of the entire Vote of £163,500 the sum of £60,000 was repaid.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, with regard to the double staff to which his hon. Friend (Mr. Ayrton)had called attention, it seemed rather strange that when it was thought necessary to effect some retrenchment, instead of reducing the military staff, which was the ornamental portion of the establishment at Woolwich, the reduction was made in the number of teachers. He thought this a most injurious course to take. Nothing could be more satisfactory than the condition of the pupils so far as concerned education, and the teachers had had nothing to do with the difficulties
 257
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he had to repeat the complaint which he had made on several previous occasions with respect to the state of the Military Hibernian School at Dublin, which was destined for the education and nurture of the children of soldiers in Ireland. The number in the school was about 400. About two-thirds of these were Protestants, and one-third Catholics. There were seventy officials in the establishment, but not a single person of rank or influence was of the Roman Catholic faith. The whole atmosphere of the place was Protestant. There were eight teachers, not one of whom was a Roman Catholic. This system had been attended with serious practical injury, for on several occasions owing to the influences which surrounded them, Roman Catholic boys had embraced the Protestant faith, and he would mention one or two cases to show how this influence had been exerted. In the year 1861 two Members of the Government stated that when a vacancy secured on the staff a certain number of Catholic teachers or officers should be appointed. A vacancy did occur soon afterwards, and it was filled up in defiance of the expressed opinion of the House of Commons. He had omitted to mention that a Roman Catholic boy, who had changed his faith, was sent to another institution and brought back as a Protestant teacher. This was a strong inducement to others to change their faith. Other vacancies occurred in November and in January, neither of which had been filled up by Roman Catholics, Nothing could be more injurious in Ireland than to allow even the suspicion of proselytism to attach to any institution under the control of the Government, and supported by Parliament. Great discouragement was given to the introduction of Catholic children, one instance of which he would mention. Colour-serjeant O'Callaghan, who fought in the Crimea and died at Corfu, left two children, one of whom was now serving Her Majesty as a soldier, and the other a boy of tender years. The father was born, bred, lived, and died a Catholic; the widow, who was a Protestant at the time of her marriage afterwards became a Catholic. She was still a Catholic, and applied to have her child admitted into the institution, but the application was refused. Admission was afterwards obtained for the
 258
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, to the observations of the hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton), that the duties of the Council of Military Education were not confined to the examination of officers for commissions; but included the whole administration of the military colleges, and of the regimental and garrison schools and libraries; and it would be seen by reference to the Return on the table that the gentlemen composing that commission were as fully occupied as any one employed in a public office. As to the Military Academy and Military College, it had been said that what was called the double staff was unnecessary. It was a misapprehension to say that what was designated in the Estimates the military branch was composed of officers employed solely in looking after the discipline of the military cadets. In the military branch of the Royal Academy at Woolwich were included the lieutenant-
 259 260 261
 MR. BRADY  was glad to have this assurance from the noble Marquess, but when he looked at the largeness of this Vote, extending to £10,000 or £20,000, and that of the officers of the institution not one in the higher positions was a Roman Catholic, he must enter his protest. The institution was entirely a Protestant one in its character. The noble Marquess said there were no attempts at proselytism in that establishment. This assertion might be correct in the sense in which the noble Lord meant to apply it—namely, that no direct influence was brought to bear OH the children there to induce them to change their religion; but when the Committee saw that children of tender years were associated in the Royal Military School with persons of a different religion who had an influence over them, it was a natural consequence that those children would receive impressions which would weigh upon their minds. It was a well known fact that no Protestant parent believing in the doctrines of his Church would place his children under a Catholic teacher any more than he would place them under one of the Jewish persuasion, and it would be well that in this institution the Catholic children had not any inducement to become Protestants. The school was established as a boon to the people of Ireland at the time of the Union. It was intended as a boon, and might yet be made a boon if it were conducted aright. But the reverse of this had been the case, and it had provoked irritation in the minds of the Catholics. It ought not to be the policy of the Government further to attempt to estrange the feelings of the people of Ireland from this country. The Government had the opportunity to make amends for the past, and by seeing that this would be conducted in a fair spirit to the people of Ireland, it would tend to diminish that feeling of hostility which the Irishmen who had left for America had entertained, and which arose from the notion that justice had not been done to them at home.
 MR. MAGUIRE  expressed his acknowledgments to the noble Marquess for the assurance which he had given. He (Mr. Maguire) should be sorry to make a state-
 262
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he had no objection to give those Returns.
 MR. WATKIN  called attention to the allowance for the messes of the cadets, and said as there were only 200 cadets, each of them must cost the country £180. This must be an expensive mode of education.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call attention to an item of £5,000 for expenses attending the carrying out of the Act 27 & 28  Vict.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that as a Member of the Committee who sat upon the Bill which had now become law, and on which this Vote was based, he must protest against the extraordinary description which the lion. Member for the Tower Hamlets had given of the measure. It was wholly incorrect to talk of that £5,000 as being intended for the purpose of catering to the vices of the soldiers. It was simply intended for their protection; and if a similar measure could be carried out throughout the whole country it would be a very great advantage. The object of the Act was that where a woman was proved to be a common prostitute—a term well known to the law of England—she should be taken care of, and not allowed to be the source of mischief to other people. It was an
 263
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the proportion of teachers to students at the Ecole Polytechnique at Paris was much greater than at the Military College. The hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton) was correct in saying that there were only 200 cadets at Woolwich, but the charge for education was fair and reasonable. With regard to the item of £5,000, it was proposed to extend it in the hire of certain Lock wards in different places; and, although it was not quite decided, yet it was contemplated to commence a hospital in one or two places where no such wards could be procured. The proportion of the grant to Aldershot would be expended either there or in London, to which those persons would be removed. It was the general opinion of persons competent to judge that the Bill would be of great use.
 MR. BRADY  said, that there was no city of Europe in which public hospitals were not open to this class of patients. They ought to be more general in this country.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had attended the meeting of the Committee one day, when he proposed that the law of the land should be put in force for the protection of the soldier.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he did not propose to move the next Vote for the administration of the army until the Report of the Committee was received.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to have some information on this Vote. It appeared that only £15 a year was allowed to maintain soldiers' widows, and he wished to know how many widows had applied. Surely that was not the whole sum allotted to this purpose?
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that he hoped the hon. Member would not persevere in asking information then, as Progress had been made, and he was only marring the attempt to postpone the consideration of the Vote.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that usually this Vote passed without discussion. He could see no objection to proceeding with it.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that considerable discussion would arise upon the Vote.
 MR. WATKIN  said, he hoped the Committee would act like an assembly of business men. This was a Vote which everybody approved, and he appealed to the gallant Member not to obstruct business by this mode of objection.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, these discussions always arose upon the Estimates, as the hon. Member would have known if he had been as long in the House as he (Colonel Dunne) had. It was the hon. Member's inexperience which led him to make that suggestion.
 THE CHAIRMAN  proceeded to put the Vote.
 COLONEL DICKSON : I thought I had moved that Progress be reported. Really it seems as if the Government are trying to get these Estimates in an unfair manner.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  regarded the proposal as unreasonable, but as they had got already many Votes the Government would give way.
 COLONEL DUNNE  asked for an explanation of its object.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, that the locks in certain parts of the river were entirely gone, and if any serious flood took place it was impossible to tell what damage might not be caused to the various properties on its banks. A large portion of the water supply of London came from the works at Teddington, and they were now constantly precluded from working the mills on the banks of the Thames by the want of water. A great waste of water arose from the locks being out of repair and not performing the functions for which they were intended. That great water highway ought no more to be suffered to go into decay than any highway in the country. He made a suggestion last year which he thought worthy the attention of the Government and the House. The locks might easily be kept in good repair by means of a very infinitesimal rate, the fractional part of a penny in the pound, upon the property in the counties through which the river passed; and if the Government would bring in a Bill with that object he was sure it would meet with the approbation of all those counties, for it was essential to the water carriage of their coal, timber, and other materials that the navigation should be maintained. He trusted that if the Government would not take the matter into their own hands they would at least allow a Committee to be appointed to inquire into the subject.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to hear that the Government were willing to accede to an inquiry, but thought it would be better that it should be conducted by a small Commission instead of by a Committee of that House. Such a Commission, with proper scientific aid, would obtain for them more valuable information than they could hope to get by a Committee, before which, he feared, they would only have persons bringing up a crowd of witnesses from Reading, Oxford, Wallingford, Merton, and other places on the river, all intent on establishing a case for their own particular localities. Full information on the whole subject was indispensable before they could have any sound legislation on that matter. A Commission would also be less expensive than a Committee. When they looked at the Thames in its course from Lechlade to the Thames Conservancy it would be seen that there were parts of the river which might be maintained as a navigation, and other parts which ought to be given up. Then there were conflicting interests, such as the old locks, the Commissioners locks, and the mills, to be considered. He believed that a Royal Commission, small in number, containing a due scientific element, would obtain a mass of information which would enable the House and the Government to come to a sounder conclusion than a Committee of that House, which must call before it a crowd of witnesses from the respective localities. He agreed with the President of the Board of Trade that the present was not a case for aid by public money. The navigation ought either to be self-supporting or ought to be abandoned, but if these interests were not to be kept up it became a question how they were to be let down. These works were maintained under Parliamentary sanction. All the magistrates of all the counties through which the river ran were, he believed, Commissioners, and they formed together a body as numerous, he supposed, as that House itself. The river was divided into districts, and now that the Commissioners had got no money the works were going to wreck and ruin.
 229
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, before you leave the Chair, Sir, I wish to Bay a word or two in explanation of something I stated a few nights since in reference to the subject of Depot Battalions, because I regret that what I then said should have occasioned some misapprehension in the minds of the Inspector General of Infantry and of some of the officers in command of these battalions. I said on that occasion that I believed that officers in command of regiments generally preferred that young officers and recruits should join the head-quarters of their regiments at once, instead of going first of all to the depôt battalions, because, when they joined their regiments, they had frequently to spend some little time in unlearning what they had previously
 242
 LORD NAAS  said, he was in favour of the principle of the Bill, but he doubted the prudence of the Amendment, as he thought that the only officers of unions
 267
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he agreed with the Amendment, adding that he had, in fact, himself given notice of an Amendment of a similar nature, but somewhat wider in its operation, as it included among officers to be superannuated the union doctors, who were a most meritorious class of men.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  hoped the Government would adhere to the clause as it stood, and thus show a due regard for the rights of the ratepayers.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the interests of the ratepayer must be considered. The effect of the hon. and gallant Member's proposal would be to give superannuation to the poor rate collector, and the chaplain, as well as the doctor and the clerk. He thought the principle of the Bill ought to be adhered to, as stated by the noble Lord opposite.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he could not conscientiously proceed with the Bill if the Amendment of the hon. Member for the King's County were carried, because he never would be a party to to the imposition upon the ratepayers of Ireland of the taxation which it would render necessary. He hoped the Bill would be passed in its present shape.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the clause, as it stood, was identical with the English law, and therefere those Irish Members who generally expressed so strong a disapprobation of different legislation for the two countries ought to support the clause.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, his suspicion with regard to the Bill was as to the period at which it was introduced. Who were the Magistrates of Queen's County and Wexford who had made representations? It looked very much like a party move?
 MR. KINNAIRD,  in seconding the
 218
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he seconded the Amendment solely as a matter of principle. As a Scotch Member, and having a Prison Board in the county which he represented, which might, perhaps, at one time or another take it into its head to act as the Prison Board of Lanarkshire had thought fit to do, he was of opinion that it would he well to stop the practice  in limine.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he had given notice of a Motion in Committee of Supply to call attention to what was reported to have been said in the Canadian Parliament relative to the Vote for the defences of Quebec. He had been told as a matter of form he could not bring on the Motion in Committee of Supply, and that it would be convenient for him to do so on the Motion for going into Committee. It had been suggested to him that as it was an important subject, bearing, as it did, upon the whole question of our defences, the opportunity for bringing it before the House would be on the bringing up of the Report on the Votes which they were to consider that evening. As he understood that there was no objection to this course, he should call the attention of the House to the subject on Monday evening next, if the Report were brought up at an hour sufficiently early to enable him to raise a discussion on the subject. If the Report, however, were not brought up until late,
 243
 MR. DENMAN  obtained leave to bring in a Bill "to improve and facilitate the trial of disputes relating to the merchant shipping." He said that it was a measure drawn under the direction of the Chamber of Commerce, and was intended to give a cheaper, more expeditious, and better qualified tribunal to settle disputes than now existed.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the question was one very easy of solution. In former times the conservancy of the Thames had been intrusted to the Justices of the Peace for the county in Quarter Sessions, but below Staines that duty was intrusted to the City of London. But when the trade and commerce of the City increased to a vast extent, the duty was vested in a Board, which was empowered to keep the river in order from its mouth to Staines. What was required, then, was to make the Board more efficient as regarded that part of the river above Staines. If the Thames Commissioners could not perform their duty the matter should be put into the hands of the justices of the counties through which the river flowed, and they could appoint committees of conservancy to take care of the river, and among other things to see that it was not polluted by sewage from the towns on its banks. Unfortunately, the present Board, in consequence of a decision of the other House last year, had not all the powers with which the House had desired to invest it. The heavy tolls paid on the rivers led to the traffic being transferred to the railways as soon as these were established; but now that the rivers had lost their value for purposes of navigation it was clearly according to the principles of the Constitution to put them back into the hands of the local magistrates, who would form admirable Boards of Conservancy in their several districts. Having the whole of the county funds at their disposal, they could be at no loss for means, while the tolls which were obtained from the river would, of course, be applied in diminution of taxation. There was no great need for inquiry; some practical proposition of the nature he had suggested could easily be worked out, the local magistrates having the example of the metropolis before their eyes, and if ener-
 233 234
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, there was one monstrous injustice contemplated by the Bill. Lanarkshire was divided into three wards, and, though the district with which he was connected had not for a number of years sent a single prisoner to Glasgow, the Prison Board of that city, without consulting the proprietors of the county, took upon themselves to bring in a Private Bill in direct opposition to all the principles upon which such Bills ought to be founded.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he had never intended to imply anything of the kind.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he did not allege that the Duke of Newcastle had receded from his engagement. The change was made while the Duke was out of office by his successor, and the engagement to which he referred was overset, he repeated, on the advice of his right hon. Friend himself.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to put the Question of which he had given notice to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Pensions assigned under Schedule B of the
 203 204 "That Parliament would not vote a credit for this purpose; but he was of opinion that the amount agreed on for this object might be reduced; that the payment of the compensation might cease on any one entitled accepting a salaried office under the British Government." 205 "We showed but little gratitude to England for the great benefits she had conferred upon us in opposing a just indemnification to the English  employés, "We cannot accept the proposal to indemnify individuals on account of loss of salary in consequence of the cession of the Ionian Islands, because such a principle is not based upon justice." 206
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the noble Viscount at the head of the Government, When it is probable the adjournment will take place for the Easter Recess?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  suggested that the Government had the power of limiting the number of papers that were presented, and thereby of reducing the expenditure under that head. He especially referred to the class of "unopposed Returns," which were moved for and granted without attracting any notice, which cost sometimes large sums of money and great expenditure of time to prepare, and which, after all, were never read by anybody. An hon. Member might move at a late hour of the night for an unopposed Return, it was put and carried, and the whole proceeding occupying about half a minute; but the printing of the Return might cost £1,000. It was no argument against a digest of valuable papers to say that a vast number of the papers that were laid upon the table were useless.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had complained that the question of the cession of the Ionian Islands had not been fully discussed in that House; but, considering the interest the hon. Gentleman took in the question, it was strange that he did not bring some Motion forward on the subject and have it fully discussed. He would not follow the hon. Gentleman through the arguments he had adduced as to the policy of the cession of the Ionian Islands. He did not think the hon. Gentleman had made out his case—namely, that the Greek Government had justly protested against the payment of these pensions; or, at any rate, that it was a very great hardship to Greece, that upon the cession of the Ionian Islands, a most valuable territory, she should be saddled with the payment of pensions which had accrued to persons in the service of the Ionian Government and not in the service of the British Government. The hon. Gentleman wanted to know whether these pensions had hitherto been paid to the persons entitled to them. He could inform the hon. Gentleman that the pensions had been
 207 208
 MR. NEATE  said, he was very glad to hear that the Government recognized the great importance of this subject. It was, indeed, a branch of one of the most important questions that could be brought under their consideration. The Thames Commissioners were not a trading body, but they had discharged the duty cast on them, so long as they had the means, to the best of their power. When their revenue was taken from them, they were wholly unable to discharge that duty. Their revenue had been taken by the effect of past legislation. There ought to be an inquiry either by a Committee or a Commission. He did not think they would be able to dispose of the whole question without a Commission; but it might be very desirable to begin with a Committee, as the House already possessed a considerable amount of information on the subject. The most important and pressing point was to vote some money. They could very soon come to a Resolution on that subject. They wanted a considerable sum, and the body had undoubted claims on the public. They wanted an advance of money, not as a gift but by way of loan, and they would be able to offer for it very reasonable security. He thought the appointment of a Committee would be the best mode of dealing with the subject in the first instance.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he understood his hon. Friend to have cited the case of Wynaad, and to have contended that a law with regard to labour similar to that which prevailed in Ceylon should be introduced there with the view of producing similar results. The circumstances under which labour was obtained both in Ceylon and the West India Islands was altogether different. The experiment had been tried in Assam, where a special law had been passed authorizing a system of Coolie labour precisely analagous to that which existed in Ceylon, and entire failure had been the consequence. Indeed, the operation of the law, so great were the cruelties practised under it, amounted almost to enforced labour. In reference to the deception practised on Coolies, he would read the following extract from a letter of the Commissioner of the Decca division to the Secretary to the Government of Bengal:—
 "The deception lies in this, that a Coolie from the upper part of India has no idea of the country to which he is going when he enters into his contract in Calcutta, and the utter wretchedness of life in a plantation only opens to him when he reaches his destination. He naturally tries to
 241 "But in too many gardens the labourers are flogged with frightful brutality, and for offences of the most trifling description." "The magistrate was opposed to the maintenance of the Act, on the ground that the power given by it was liable to be much abused, so as to become a powerful engine for enforcing slavery."
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, his hon. Friend urged him to incur a very considerable expenditure with a view to increasing the Indian surplus or diminishing the deficit. He could not, however, see how that object was to be attained by heavy expense for the construction of the roads which he advocated. He (Sir Charles Wood) admitted that the execution of the roads referred to was most desirable and necessary, and regretted that they were not more rapidly made. He believed that the roads had been made piecemeal, and he feared they were not well done—but orders had been given which he trusted would remedy that evil. He so far concurred with his hon. Friend that after the Report of Sir W. Denison, who had gone out to India last autumn, he had given instructions that roads, which he quite granted were very much needed, should be proceeded with in a more systematic way, and should be completed within a certain time. With respect to the coffee and tea districts, he found that there was an increase of about 2,000 tons a year in the production of coffee, and that the Assam tea, the production of which also was, he believed, on the increase, commanded a very good price in the London markets. His hon. Friend, however, adverting to another subject, complained that there was no law in India placing on a proper footing the relations between master and servant; but the fact was, that the question having been considered by the Law Commission in this country it had been placed upon that footing which the most able jurists deemed to be the best. Beyond that, the question of importing labour from one part of the country to another had been carefully considered with reference to the tea districts of Assam, for the introduction of labour into which a sepcial Act had been passed two years ago. He regretted, however, to say that the result had not realized the expectations which had been formed, owing to circumstances over which legislation had no control. It should, in dealing with the subject, be borne in mind that the introduction of labour into small islands like the West Indies or
 240
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the measure would not have any such effect. Its intention simply was to provide increased facilities for polling. There would be no new registration or revision of voters, and the sole object of the Bill was to provide for the division of the voters into polling districts.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the whole of the information upon this subject was already on the table. It must be perfectly well known to his hon. Friend that the greatest interest was felt in the North American Colonies in the completion of the communication by railway between Halifax and Quebec. He must know, also, that proposals had been made by the different Colonies, and the Duke of Newcastle, in the name of Her Majesty's Government, entered into certain engagements which were to be carried out upon certain conditions being fulfilled by the colonies. The whole of the corre-
 236
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to ask would the House allow that to be done by a side wind which Parliament in its wisdom had not permitted under the sanction of the public Act? Ought they not rather to look at the question from a public point of view, and hear first what the Lord Advocate had to say when he should introduce his Bill for altering the very section out of which the present difficulty had arisen?
 COLONEL GREVILLE : I rise to second the Motion for the adjournment of the House in order to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland if he will answer the question put to him by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan) namely—whether he will lay on the table the Report he has received from the learned Judge upon this subject. The right hon. Baronet has read a passage from a letter, but he has not stated to the House whether that letter is addressed to him personally, or whether it is the Report forwarded by the learned Judge to the Government.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he had heard the Under Secretary of State for the Foreign Department with great astonishment, because the hon. Gentleman made no reference to the original appointments. Sir Patrick Colquhoun, Sir Charles
 215
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, that as representing one of the towns (Reading) immediately interested in this question, he
 231
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, he had found Mr. Levi's publication of great use to him in following out the course of legisislation, and he had no doubt that a digest of Parliamentary information would be of great utility; but he doubted whether a grant of public money ought to be made for preparing it. In 1854 a Committee had recommended that selections from the Parliamentary Papers should be presented to mechanics' and other institutions in the country; but it had been found impossible to make these selections on account of the voluminous nature of the papers. The House was bound to carry out the suggestions of the Committee. He thought this was a public view of the matter which the House might consider. The expense would be small, and the value immense. No one who had read the digest which had been referred to could say that there was any party spirit running through it. It was a wise way of giving the public the knowledge of the general course of legislation which Parliament was pursuing. If it was found that there was any party spirit pervading this selection of papers it would be open to the House to stop the small subsidy, and throw the matter into the market for others to undertake. He was sure this would be of great value, and he trusted the Government would not refuse it.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, If he will promote a Labour Ordinance for India, or certain parts of India, similar to that now in force in Ceylon; and if he will cause to be remedied the great want of roads in the important district of Wynaad? The tea and coffee plantations in India had become a most important branch of industry, and an increasing amount of revenue was being obtained from them to this country. The planters in India, however, experienced a difficulty which was not felt in other of Her Majesty's colonies. There was no proper law existing between master and servant in that country, and the planters had no power to compel labourers to keep their contracts. When the planter in Ceylon
 237 238 239
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  observed, that all he said was that a law ought to be passed under the operation of which a servant could not, as at present, leave his master the very next morning after he had engaged to enter his employment. He would have a servant, if he failed to keep his contract with his master in India, punished by imprisonment in the same way as in Ceylon and other colonies of the British Empire.
 MR. BAGWELL  believed that the inconvenience arising from the Bill would be greater than the convenience. He should move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. SPEAKER : Let the hon. Baronet ask his Question.
 MR. HENNESSY : I think it is very advisable that we should have the Report. That report implicates not the magistrates of the county Down but the Law Officers of the Crown, and that is the reason why Her Majesty's Government will not produce it. The hon. and gallant Member, who has communicated with the learned Judge, has told us that he (the Chief Justice) had no fault to find with the magistrates. The fault rests with the Law Officers of the Crown. The informations were in their hands for several days, and they sent down two Queen's counsel and two junior counsel to prosecute the prisoners. It was a Crown prosecution, and not instituted at the instance of the magistrates, and consequently they were not to blame.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that as one of the Commissioners, he concurred in the opinion that a Royal Commission was far preferable to a Select Committee, because it would be absolutely necessary to go into the districts and to see the locks and weirs in order to enable them to give an opinion that might be relied upon. He was told that the navigation from the Severn to the Thames was in such a state that the tolls alone between Bristol and London amounted to more money than the whole charge for the same goods by railway. If so, it was by no means extraordinary that the goods traffic on the Thames should be so much diminished. If locks fit for these barges were made, it would be still doubtful whether the river navigation could compete with the railways. If they could not, who was to pay for the works, and would it not be necessary that the counties should have a rate levied upon them? They were all agreed upon one thing, that the river must remain navigable and that the banks must be kept up. The question of the pollution of the river deserved attention in connection with this subject. If a Board composed of a smaller number were to be set up in the place of the present 800 Com-
 230
 MR. J. R. YORKE,  as a young Member of the House, thought that nothing was more depressing to the spirits and trying to the temper than the attempt to extract a few simple facts out of the mass of documents which now encumbered one's rooms. Last year he found that nearly 1,000 of these Parliamentary Papers were issued, containing upwards of 50,000 pages, at a cost of £67,000. It was lamentable to reflect what a large proportion of this expenditure might be said to be entirely thrown away, for the great mass of these volumes found their way to the waste-paper dealers. He would suggest that the large number of copies now printed  in extenso 219 Hansard's Debates, Annals of British Legislation,
 MR. AGAR-ELLIS  said, that the Bill would be totally unworkable. The Act of last year did not require amendment.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he opposed the Bill on the ground that the Board had been elected to discharge certain duties, and that they were not entitled to go beyond them. He wanted to know if they were prepared to give power to the Prison Board to assess and do as they liked, without consulting the wishes of their constituents.
 MR. MALINS  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Petitions of the General Committee of the Thames and Isis Navigation, and the Mayor and Corporation of the Borough of Wallingford, presented to this House on the 7th of March; and to put a question to the President of the Board of Trade relating thereto. He said the object of these petitions was to point out the present state of the navigation of the upper portion of the river Thames above Staines, and to show that the locks and weirs had fallen into a state of decay; and unless something was done the navigation of that great river would become a thing of the past. Since the establishment of railways the traffic of the
 224 225 ex officio ex officio 226
 MR. DALGLISH  said, the county of Lanark was divided into upper, middle, and lower wards, but it was not a Local Board, but the county Board, nominated by the Commissioners of Supply and the proper authorities in the county, which promoted this Bill. He could say that, as far as regarded the amount of assessment, the city of Glasgow was not adequately represented by the county Board. The county Board resolved that a certain addition to the prison should be made, but it was found that they had no power under the general Act. The county Board took the best advice they could, and this Bill was the result of their deliberations. The people of Glasgow had no desire to increase the prison, it was a matter of necessity, and this mode of doing it was considered the best. He hoped, then, the House would allow the Bill to be read a second time.
 MR. LONGFIELD  contended that the operation of the Bill would entail a new revision in the districts to which it applied, by means of which not only would expenditure be incurred, but efforts to oust particular persons would be encouraged.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is the intention of the Government to ask the sanction of Parliament, during the present Session, for a guarantee of a sum of money required to complete the railway from Halifax to Quebec. Even if the Government had no such present intention, he should like to know the reasons which were considered to justify such a guarantee at this or at any other time. He was induced to ask the question because he was informed only a few months ago that surveys for the purposes of the proposed line were going forward. In order to complete the line from Halifax to Quebec, he believed that 400 miles of railway must be carried through a most difficult country, in which the hills were composed of rocks, and, the rivers being numerous, engineering difficulties of magnitude presented themselves. It being tolerably evident that the works never could prove remunerative, it became important to ascertain on what grounds the Government imagined that a guarantee
 235
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he was not connected with any of the towns on the banks of the Thames, but as a member of the great community here, he could not but feel a deep interest in this question. It was, as stated by the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate), a branch of the greatest question that could occupy the attention of the House in a social point of view. He could not compare it to the case of a bankrupt turnpike trust, because the burden of maintaining the highways had been thrown on parishes. He agreed with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Henley) that it would be hardly, just to throw on the county rate the duty of keeping up the highway of the Thames. It was not the inhabitants of the county that benefited. The whole of the inhabitants of England benefited by the keeping up the highway of the Thames. The navigation of the Thames was only one part of the question. It was a very important part; but so long as there were railways it would be found impossible to compete with the quicker mode of transit, except for heavy goods. What had been stated by the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) was very important—what was to be done with the drainage which ran into the Thames above the metropolis? Even that was not the only question. He earnestly entreated the Government to consider the necessity of keeping the fullest supply of water they could in great navigable rivers for the use of the community. If they established water companies to supply London and the suburbs, they drew so much water away from the Thames, and were thus constantly diminishing the volume of water. He believed it would be found on inquiry that the effect thus produced on the river within the last twenty-five years had been very material, and if the volume of water was diminished they could not have that re-
 232
 SIR THOMAS BATESON  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he was aware that, in addition to the unwarrantable and censorial observations made by Chief Justice Monahan, reflecting on the character of gentlemen in the county of Down in their magisterial capacity, that Judge had in open court, when a Magistrate was endeavouring to explain the facts of the case, interrupted the Magistrate and refused to hear him, making use of these words, or words to the same effect, "G—d—it,
 197
 SIR THOMAS BATESON  said, that he had given notice to the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland and had made him acquainted with the words which he believed could be proved to have been used. The people of the county of Down were primitive enough not to understand the use of such language from the Judicial Bench. He also wished to know whether Chief Justice Monahan had made to the Irish Government any explanation, justification, or retractation of the words censured by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary, on a former occasion, in terms for which he (Sir Thomas Bateson) begged to thank him, and whether the Chief Secretary was aware that the Magistrates on the Rathfriland Bench, in the county of Down, were acting in the case of "The Queen  v.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that a deputation who had waited upon him at the Board of Trade had stated very much what his hon. and learned Friend had done, and they had informed him that the upper navigation of the Thames from Staines to Lechlade was almost in a hopeless condition, and that it would probably be destroyed unless something was done. He certainly thought that the navigation of the Thames was a very important matter, and that if it were possible it ought to be maintained, but it ought to be maintained like other navigations—namely, by the proceeds from the traffic. His hon. and learned Friend had stated that the railways had interfered with the traffic on
 227 228
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  thought the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury had rather overrated the difficulty of complying with the suggestion of the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. Ewart). At present they had annual Reports on the Post Office, Inland Revenue, Customs, Board of Health, and Poor Law Board, and these were most satisfactorily abstracted in Mr. Leone Levi's publication. What was really wanted was something like the abstract information comprised in Mr. Leone Levi's valuable work.  Hansard,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend had not laid before the House the grounds upon which he asserted that the engagement he stated had been made. What the Government had done was this:—They had insisted that the Greek Government should grant to certain gentlemen pensions or compensation for loss of office, upon a scale which was totally unknown according to the habits, usages, or institutions of any country but our own. In fact, it was only England which showed such liberality. While enforcing the necessity of performing these engagements upon the Greek Government, the English Government thought it but fair that they should have such abatement as was provided by the law of this country in case of the resumption of office by these gentlemen under the Crown. They felt it was only right that they should insist on the rule which had prevailed in this country, that officers accepting offices in other Departments should only receive so much pension as was in excess of their salaries. That arrangement he believed to be a perfectly just one. Her Majesty's Government, therefore, not only did not admit the moral obligation which his hon. Friend had urged so strongly, but they were persuaded that the course which they had pursued was founded alike upon policy and principle, and any hon. Member who disapproved their conduct could avail himself of his privileges and challenge that conduct in the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had not described the words that had fallen from the lips of his hon. Friend. He had simply shown him what was the nature of the charges which he had made. His hon. Friend, however, was in error, because it was not true that the Duke of Newcastle was out of office when the change was made. The matter was completed during the administration of the noble Duke. If the Duke made any engagement of this kind it was his duty to have carried it out, and the statement of his hon. Friend, therefore, amounted to a charge that the Duke had receded from his engagement. He was quite sure that the hon. Gentleman never intended to make a charge against the Duke of New-
 212
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the speech of his hon. Friend was not founded upon any hardship which had accrued to these gentlemen since the cession of the Ionian Islands. It was in reality an objection to the arrangement under which that cession had been originally made. The question as to the pensions or compensations of those gentlemen was fully settled and considered at the time, and he did not believe that the House would be very much disposed to re-open a matter upon an argument which in reality should have been urged at the time when the original measures were deliberately taken. On that occasion this question was raised by an hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, whom he perceived in his place, and the intentions of the Government which were distinctly announced met, as he regarded it, with the approbation of the House. At all events the House so far sanctioned the policy of the Government that Her Majesty's Ministers had no occasion to come to the House for a Vote of money after the decision at which the House had arrived. The time did arrive when the course of Government should have been challenged if that course were objected to, but that challenge was not made. His hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had said that he wondered
 210 211
 MR. COGAN : I beg to ask the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland, whether Chief Justice Monahan has reported to the Irish Government with reference to this case; and secondly, whether such Report, if any, contains any reference to the epithets unjustifiably used by Chief Justice Monahan?
 MR. COGAN : I must again appeal to the right hon. Baronet to give some reply to the two Questions I have put to him. Has Chief Justice Monahan reported upon the administration of justice in the county of Down? [Sir ROBERT PEEL: He has reported.] Will the right hon. Baronet lay that Report upon the table of the House?
 MR. COGAN : I should wish to ask the right hon. Baronet, in addition, If Chief Justice Monahan has made any Report of this case to the Irish Government, and whether he has communicated with the right hon. Baronet with reference to the observations made by him on this affair, and if so, whether, in fairness to the Chief Justice, he will lay those communications on the table of the House, so that this House, which has heard the charges against this distinguished Judge, may hear the explanation of the circumstances connected with them?
 MR. COGAN  said, he rose to order. He wished to know, before the hon. Baronet proceeded further, whether he had given notice to Chief Justice Monahan of his intention to bring so serious a charge against him.
 MR. W. EWART,  in moving for a Select Committee on this subject, said, that hon. Members might well be forgiven for feeling a good deal of dread of blue-books, because of late years it had rained blue-books—Pelion had been piled on Ossa, and Ossa on Olympus. It had been sarcastically remarked that if you wanted to hide a question the best plan was to bury it in a blue-book—you might then defy anybody to excavate it. And
 216 "Cum scriptore meo capsâ porrectus apertâ, Deferar in vicum vendentem thus et odores, Et piper, et quidquid chartis amicitur ineptis." in extenso, in initio, 217 The Parliamentary Record, The Parliamentary Record The Parliamentary Remembrancer, The Annals of Legislation, Statistical Abstract,
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would withdraw the Motion.
 COLONEL FORDE  said, that having the honour of representing the county of Down, he wished to make a few observations on that subject, and to place himself in order he would conclude by moving the adjournment of the House. He begged to tender his thanks to the Chief Secretary for Ireland for the prompt manner in which he had come forward to vindicate the magistrates of the county of Down; for there was no doubt that the words attributed to the Chief Justice in the local papers had been used by him. The expressions of Chief Justice Monahan in charging the petty jury in the case in question were—
 "Gentlemen, you have heard the whole of the evidence in this case; and I must say that I am very much disgusted with the way in which justice is administered in the county of Down." "My Lord,—Having had an opportunity this day of conferring with some of the magistrates of the neighbourhood (whose names I annex) upon the subject of your Lordship's observations when charging the petty jury in the Rathfriland riot case, as reported in the  Belfast News Letter 200 "Belfast, March 22. "My dear Colonel Forde,—I was detained so late in court last evening that I was unable to write to you by last night's mail, as I intended. As I stated when I had the pleasure of seeing you yesterday, I took no note of the observations made by me at the late trial at Down, nor can I recollect with accuracy what they were; but of this I am certain, that I had not any intention of stating that I considered the magistrates of the county capable of administering 'partial justice,' which you mention as the inference drawn by some from the report of the trial. Any observations I made had reference to the case then at trial, in which, from the evidence before me, I was of opinion that a serious mistake had been committed in sending for trial some of one party accused of riot, when from the evidence before me it appeared that the other party were, to say the least of it, equally culpable. It may be, as you stated yesterday, that if the facts appearing at petty sessions had been brought before me, my opinion would have been different. "My dear Colonel Forde, yours very truly, "JAMES H. MONAHAN, "Lieutenant Colonel Forde, M.P., "Carlton Club, London." v. "On the 3rd of March, 1865, the adjourned case against Edward O'Hare, John Hillen, and John M'Evoy, for riot at Aughnavallog, on the 10th of February last, was proceeded with at Rathfriland Petty Sessions. For the prosecution it was proved that a riot had taken place at Aughnavallog, about one mile from Rathfriland, between half past five and six o'clock on that evening, and that O'Hare, Hillen, and M'Evoy were present, two of the accused being stripped to the shirt, and one of them using party expressions. That at same place, and about same time, a mob attacked and beat inoffensive individuals, some of whom were seriously injured. For the defence it was proved that previously to this, in the town of Rathfriland, a riot had taken place, in which were two party mobs throwing stones. No evidence was offered against any one of either party for the riot at Rathfriland, and the Justices of the Peace unanimously agreed to return to assizes informations against the three persons identified as being in a riotous mob at Aughnavallog that day." 201 The Times
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  hoped that the Secretary of the Treasury would endeavour to carry out the idea of the hon. Member for Dumfries, which he thought was exceedingly useful and would be the means of diffusing a great deal of valuable information throughout the country. He would suggest that means might be found
 223
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the real object of the Bill was to supply the omission in the Bill of last Session. It had nothing to do with registration, but was merely for the convenience of voters.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the proper course to take was, for the hon. Member (Mr. Hennessy) to give notice of moving for the production of the Report. Certainly it was very unusual to produce confidential Reports of the Judges. His right hon. Friend, when pressed for an
 202
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he must protest against the doctrine laid down by the last speaker that the management and conservancy of the Thames ought to be paid for out of the county funds. There were some counties of which the river only touched the border, and in which the ratepayers consequently could have little interest in the solution of this question compared with residents in the metropolis. He believed that there was no more important question for consideration than the drainage of river basins; and his conviction was that if such basins were properly drained they would be much more fruitful, and that the public health would be promoted. The cost of such works, however, should not fall upon the county rate, but upon the inhabitants of the district drained.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that in the debate of last year it was made abundantly clear that the conduct of Her Majesty's Government in this matter was much looser than that of the Government of a great country like this ought to be. His hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) never intended to charge the Duke of Newcastle with having departed from any pledge which he had entered into; but there was reason to fear that the Members of the present Government were not so liberal as the Duke of Newcastle. The hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary knew perfectly well that there was a document at our Foreign Office which asserted in a manner which would hardly admit of contradiction that such a pledge had been given. He believed it would not be denied that a statement, made on the 18th of April, 1864, from which the following was an extract, was in the hands of the Foreign Office. [Mr. LAYARD: By whom?] The hon. Gentleman had better hear it read. This was the extract—
 214 "When——saw the Duke of Newcastle on the subject of the pensions and compensations to be granted to British subjects, either as pensions acquired by them under the Ionian law, or as compensations for loss of office, or both conjointly, his Grace declared on more than one occasion, not only that the British Government would undertake to see these pensions paid, but pointed out the superior advantage of a Greek over a British pension, because it would be in addition to and tenable with any future employment under the British Crown, and he added that he would place his opinion in record on this point, in such a manner as should bind his successors."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I read a passage from a private letter. I do not think it will be advisable to produce the Report.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I beg again to state that what I said the other night was, that so far as my information went Chief Justice Monahan was not warranted in making the remarks he had made. The Chief Justice has written to me, and I think that if he had known all the circumstances which occurred at the sessions he would not have made use of the observations which fell from him on the occasion referred to.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I think it would have been infinitely better if, after the answer I gave the other night, this question had not been put. It is true that the Magistrates did consult the Law Officers of the Crown, and that they confirmed the judgment of the Magistrates in this matter. Chief Justice Monahan has written to me with respect to what an hon. and gallant Member of this House (Colonel Forde) said with reference to these re-
 198 "Colonel Forde mentioned to me that some people in the County Down were of opinion that I had accused the Magistrates there of administering justice partially. I have written to say that I do not remember exactly what observations I made, but certainly I had no intention of making any such charge."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the Bill was introduced with no such object.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that in 1862 a Bill was introduced for the purpose of limiting the polling in counties to one day, instead of two. It became law. In 1864 a Bill was introduced authorizing the Lord President in Council to make additional polling places by the division of baronies, attaching them to new polling-places. When that Act was passed an omission was made with reference to the preparation of the lists for those new polling places, in consequence of which the Act would not work. Representations had been made by Magistrates of Queen's county and Wexford of the inconvenience there, and it was to remedy the omission in the Act of last Session that this Bill was brought in,
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Government, on resuming Supply on the Army Estimates, propose to take Vote 18 before the House has in its possession the Report of the Committee which has inquired into the War Office?
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he contended that on public grounds this Bill ought not to be proceeded with. The object of the measure was to enable the Prison Board of Lanarkshire to enlarge the gaol at Glasgow, and to allow them to extend the cost of the undertaking over a number of years. They had not, however consulted upon that subject the Commissioners of Supply, or the other county authorities. It was not consistent with the practice of Parliament to carry out by a Private Bill any measure which could be effected by a general Act. By the 2 & 3  Vict. 195
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, Sir, if the state of public business admits of it, the best course will be to adjourn as of late years on the Friday before Good Friday.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, It is very much more easy, especially after the recent decision, to say what is not
 277
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I beg pardon. I thought my hon. Friend would understand from my answer that the maximum operation of these Letters Patent in the colonies would seem to be to incorporate the Bishops and their successors, not as an ecclesiastical corporation, but simply as a common lay corporation, which it is the ordinary prerogative of the Crown to create, and for which no statutory power is required.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  rose to move that the Union Chargeability Bill be now read a second time, and said, Sir, having endeavoured on a former occasion to explain the purport of this Bill, and believing that it has found favour with those whom it concerns, it will not be necessary for me to detain the House at any
 278 279 280 281 status 282 283 284 "Although much of the inequality which has been shown to exist as between parish and parish within the same union will now be obviated by the operation of the Irremovable Poor Act of 1861, and that inequality will be further lessened by the adjustment of the parochial rates under the provisions of the Union Assessment Act of 1862, your Committee are unable to regard that result as furnishing any reason against equalizing the charge of maintaining all classes of the poor over the several parishes of the whole union. On the contrary, it appears to them to have removed one of the greatest obstacles to the adoption of such a measure." "That any measure for extending the area of rating should, in the opinion of the Committee, embrace provisions for making the whole cost for the poor in each union chargeable on the common fund of the union." 285 286 (Q. 6709.) "There is no doubt that the irremovable poor will be in a very short time the rule, and the settled poor the exception. The one is an immensely increasing, and the other a decreasing proportion." (Q. 6777.) "It is absolutely and positively certain that a Union Rate will follow immediately—that it is only a step to a Union Rate." 287 288 s. s. 289 290 291 "It is the commonest thing possible to find agricultural labourers lodged at such a distance from their regular employment that they have to walk an hour out in the morning and an hour home in the evening—from forty to fifty miles a week. In one county the farmers actually provide donkeys on which their labourers ride out and home to prevent their tiring themselves with walking, so that they may be more vigorous at their work. Two hours a day is a sixth part of a man's daily labour, and the enormous tax he is compelled to pay in labour, which is his only capital. Nor is this the sole evil of the practice, for the labourers are crowded into villages where the exorbitant cottage rents frequently oblige them to herd together in a manner destructive of morality and injurious to health." "I assume also that the anomaly of our parochial system is acknowledged, its most glaring effects being that the proprietors of close rural parishes can and do transfer their poor population to a neighbouring parish, thereby reaping all the advantage of their labour when efficient without the responsibility of their maintenance when impotent. I do not think I need make any observations upon close parishes. Your Lordships are more aware than any other class of the community what they mean and how they work." 292 293 "All power of limiting the number of cottages, simply for the purpose of avoiding the burden on a particular parish, would be taken away. Two or three proprietors may now combine, but the owners of land in so large an area as an union cannot possibly act upon an experiment of this kind, even if the abolition of settlement and the
 294
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY,  in rising to move the Amendment, of which he had given notice, said, he had heard with much pleasure the observation of the right hon. Gentleman, who, referring to the hon. Member for South Devon (Mr. Kekewich), said, that he felt convinced that hon. Member would not have proposed a Resolution in a Committee upstairs to the terms of which he would not adhere in that House. Upon hearing that
 295 296 s. 297 Cheers 298 299
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  rose to second the Amendment, and said that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board thought it odd that any hon. Member of that House should require more information on this important subject. Well, he (Mr. Stanhope) was one of those benighted individuals. The right hon. Gentleman described to the House in a most touching way the contents of a report of a certain medical officer—he went further, and asked hon. Members not to defeat his Bill without being acquainted with all the particulars. This was what his hon. Friend (Sir Rainald Knightley) and himself asked, though in a different form—namely, that the House would not proceed with the Bill till they had made themselves acquainted with all the circum stances of the case. A considerable change took place in the law not four years ago, when the Irremovable Poor Act was passed, and he did not see how they could well determine what should be the nature of future legislation until the different changes which had already been introduced into the law should have been properly tried. That Act had been successful or it had not. If it had been successful he could not see on what plea it was to be upset. If, on the other hand, it had been unsuccessful, that fact pointed out to the Legislature that they ought to be excessively careful how far they made any such further changes in the law. The effect of the Bill would be twofold. It
 300 301
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he hoped the House would pause before giving its assent to the second reading of this Bill. He agreed with the hon. Member opposite that a measure which must affect the liability of every parish in the kingdom was one of such paramount importance that it ought not to be dealt with until they received information much more accurate than any they now possessed—indeed, it ought not to be dealt with till they had an opportunity of personally consulting those whose interests would be so seriously affected by the change. They must bear in mind that if they once established the principle of union settlement and union rating it would be utterly impossible ever again to revert to the old parochial principle; and, therefore, by legislating in the absence of accurate information they might inadvertently inflict irreparable injury on a large portion of the rural districts. They had been rather taunted for thirsting for more information on that subject; but what information had they received either from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) or from any papers that had been laid on the table, as to the extent of the change which the Bill would make in the respective burdens of town and country? The right hon. Gentleman was diffuse on many other points; he advanced many arguments in favour of a union settlement which it would be very difficult to refute; but, with regard to the all important point above stated, he had maintained a discreet and almost eloquent silence. If the right hon. Gentleman had spoken as to that, his sense of truth would have obliged him to tell them that the effect of the Bill in all unions which comprised one or more large towns and a certain number of agricultural parishes would be, that the rates would be very much diminished in all the town and proportionately increased in all the agricultural parishes. He was not speaking at random on the point, for he held in his hand a document very much in the nature of that for which the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had moved—namely, a detailed statement of particulars regarding all the parishes
 303 304
 MR. STANILAND  said, he did not agree with the hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Dering) that there was any necessity for postponing the discussion on the second reading of this Bill, for, after all, it was only an extension of the Act of 1861, and though that Act had been in operation now nearly four years, there had been no petitions presented against it; so that it might be fairly taken to be approved by the country. The hon. Member for North Lincolnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope) had pointed out that the town which he had the honour to represent (Boston) would be relieved by this Bill of some £1,700 or £1,800 a year of expenditure for the poor. It certainly would have the effect of relieving that town from considerable sums now paid by it; but the fact was that three-quarters of the relief would be in consequence of getting rid of the maintenance of people who came into the town from adjoining parishes. Certainly there was no man who had a better right to be heard on this subject than the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Lincoln, for there was no man whose estate had undergone greater improvements, who was a larger employer of labour, or whose cottages were in a better condition. He should like, however, to call the hon.
 305 s. d. 306
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board in introducing the subject, and giving a summary of former legislation in its regard, had made use of the somewhat remarkable expression "that in by-gone times somebody was always in the dark, and could not see the way." But that was precisely the position of Her Majesty's Government on this occasion: and that also was the position in which they wished to place the House; for there never was an instance upon record before now of a Government asking the House to proceed at once to the second reading of a Bill which involved, as this measure did, a large transfer of property upon such scanty information as they at present had on the subject. So much was this the case that hon. Member after hon. Member had risen to show how completely the operation of the Bill would in different localities disappoint the objects and intentions of the right hon. Gentleman. He was able to contribute from his part of the country something towards the stock of information. He was acquainted with a union—Downham—which consisted of thirty-four parishes, of which eighteen would be largely benefited, while sixteen would be losers by the Bill. But the most curious fact was that in this case it was the close parishes that would be the gainers. Now, that was directly at variance with what he conceived to be the right hon. Gentle-
 307 308
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, the opponents of the Bill had based their objections to it mainly on the ground that it would effect a redistribution of burdens for parochial relief, and consequently create injustice. It was impossible to deny that the effect of the Bill would be to redistribute the burden of the poor rate to some extent; but so far from admitting that that re-adjustment would be unjust, he contended that it was absolutely necessary for the purpose of remedying an injustice already existing, and which, though partially remedied by recent legislation, still required the enactment of such a measure as this. When hon. Members talked of the shifting or redistribution of the burdens, they ought to bear in mind that burdens might be shifted by various methods, not only by the direct action of the Legislature, but by individuals in their own interests, in their own parishes setting at defiance and frustrating the intentions of the Legislature, or by different circumstances arising not at all contemplated by the Legislature when the burden was imposed. When the burden became shifted by either of these two latter means it was the duty of the Legislature not only to prevent any further frustration of its original design, but to readjust the burden which had become disturbed or disarranged. If hon. Members would carry their minds back to the original design and intention of the Poor Law, they would not fail to see how far in the course of time the gradual operation of the law had departed from that original design. The first Act was the 7th Henry VIII., which created the office of overseer, the contributions were voluntary, and at that time each parish was not dependent upon its own resources for the maintenance of its own poor, for the surplus collections were to go in aid of the less affluent parishes. These voluntary contributions were found to be insufficient, and the next act was a sort of hybrid. The 5th Elizabeth gave power to justices with the churchwardens to assess compulsorily all those who were obstinate and would not give voluntarily. In ten years that Act came to an end. The parochial system was altogether ignored, and a state of things was established almost identical with the condition of things which would be in existence if the present Bill became law. By the 14th Elizabeth the magistrates of each county
 309 quid pro quo 310 pro rata,
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he entirely supported the principle of the measure, and could not vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire merely because it would seem a certain Report had not been read by the whole body of the House. This was not a question that had come suddenly upon the country, nor was this a Bill that could be said to be unexpected. The country in fact had long been disciplined into the belief that some such measure must of necessity follow the legislation which had already taken place. The hon. Member who argued against this Bill appeared to think that nothing had been done in the direction in which this Bill aimed, and that this had been the first attempt to equalize the burdens between the different parishes. Why, on several occasions measures have been passed by this House the effect of which would be to shift the liability of property; and notably in 1861 an extensive measure was passed, by which rather more than one-fourth of the union charge was thrown upon the common fund. A still greater change we seffected by the Bill which was passed in the following year; and these combined acts placed nearly one-half of the whole charge upon the common fund. Was it rational, therefore, to think that the House was not prepared for the measure now before it? Ever since the passing of the Poor Law Amendment Act, in 1836, we had experienced the disadvantage of the combined parochial and union system. There was hardly a Session of
 311 312
 LORD HENLEY  said, he would deal with this question apart from any party considerations whatever. The Bill was opposed for want of information, which hon. Members could easily obtain by seeking it in the records of the unions to which they belonged. If the information were put before each Gentleman separately with respect to his own union, no doubt he would be able to judge how far it would affect the parishes in the union. It was simply a question of unions. It was impossible to live in a rural distict without taking a great interest in those matters concerning the maintenance of the poor. He had looked into the working of the Act of 1861, and regarded it as a considerable improvement upon the previous law, as it made all the parishes contribute towards the common fund of the union in proportion to the rateable value of the property in the parish, and not in proportion to the money expended in the relief of the poor during any given year. That was a step in the right direction; but the Act did not go far enough in making close parishes contribute to the relief of the poor in their own district. The Bill now before the House was aimed at that particular object, and would more thoroughly carry out the intention of the Act of 1861. Its effect would be to remedy many of the evils at present existing. The employers of labour in close parishes kept their men as long as they were strong and healthy, but the moment they became old and infirm they were thrown upon the rates of those parishes which were already over-peopled and over-rated. In his own union, out of twenty-eight parishes three were what were called close parishes. The rateable value of the three was £8,077 a year. Before the Act of 1861 those three parishes combined only contributed £16 a year to the support of the poor. The effect of the Act of 1861 was that those three parishes contributed just under £200 a year to the common fund of the union. This was about 6 d. s. 313 d. s. d. s. d. s. s. 314
 MR. SCOURFIELD  wished to know how this measure would affect the existing areas of unions—a subject which had not yet been alluded to. Many parishes had great reason to complain of the way in which they were annexed to particular unions; and although there was a power by law of detaching them and of annexing them to other unions, there were difficulties in the way of such a step for the majority bound the minority, and the authorities in London were usually unwilling to make a change. If the present Bill became law this difficulty would be very much enhanced, and it would be almost impossible for a parish, whatever reason it might have for complaint, to detach itself from the union. In the county of Angle-sea there were, for example, twenty or thirty parishes annexed to unions in the county of Carnarvon, because Anglesea was unwilling to build a union workhouse. He should certainly like to know whether the question of the areability of the unions was to be considered simultaneously with the passage of this Bill. He should be sorry to go so far as to vote for the rejection of this Bill, for Parliament had been travelling in the direction of union rating, and they could not pronounce that to be unjust which had been in practice for some years; but he still thought that those who advocated caution had some reason for what they said. Sums of 1 s. s. d. d. d. 315
 MR. JOHN TOLLEMACHE  said, he believed the House would act in a much fairer and more straightforward manner if it at once either passed or threw out the Bill. He did not think they required any further information upon the subject. On the contrary, he believed that they were already inundated with information. He felt persuaded that the present Bill was a natural consequence of the passing of the Act of 1846. After the passing of that Act it was perfectly clear that they were moving in the direction of union rating and union chargeability. Under the law as it had since existed, vast numbers of paupers were removed from the townships to which they belonged to adjoining townships, for the purpose of being converted into paupers chargeable on the common fund. There could be no doubt that the present measure would relieve heavily burdened townships at the expense of townships more happily circumstanced. That change would be felt to a great extent in the southern division of Cheshire, which he represented; but so satisfied was he that the Bill was essentially a just one, and that all property in a union ought to contribute to the support of the poor, according to its rateable value, that he should feel it his duty to vote for the second reading in spite of the unpopularity which he knew, from the letters he received, that step would bring down upon him in South Cheshire on the approach of a general election.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that this Bill so far affected Ireland that if it became law in England a similar measure would have to be brought forward next Session for Ire-
 316
 MR. PUGH  said, he would add another county Member to those who supported this Bill. Since it was read the first time he had ascertained that it was cordially approved by the guardians of the union, whose meetings he was accustomed to attend when he was in the country. It was their opinion, in which he concurred, that much time was consumed and even ill-feeling engendered, by disputes between parishes as to the proper settlement of paupers. These disputes would be terminated by this Bill, to the great advantage of the Board, and to the still greater advantage of the poor themselves; for a strong inducement to their removal in certain cases would be taken away. He himself was one of those who thought that the area of chargeability might be enlarged still further than was contemplated by this measure, and that the change would be
 317 "It is melancholy to see time passing away without being put to its full value. Surely in a matter of this kind we should endeavour to do something, that we may say that we have lived, that we have not lived in vain, that we may leave some impress of ourselves on the sands of time." "Nos primus equis Oriens afflavit anhelis, Illic sera rubens accendit lumina Vesper:"—
 MR. FLOYER,  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken (Mr. Pugh) had not gone into any details as to the effect of the measure which would induce him to take the same view as the hon. and learned Gentleman did. The hon. and learned Member for Cork (Mr. Scully), following the right hon. Gentleman who introduced the Bill, said that the Bill would lead to more vigilance and less expenditure, and the right hon. Gentleman, in support of his view, referred to the example of the great metropolitan unions. That example rather alarmed him. He thought that if hon. Members would take
 318 vice versa. 319 320 321 322
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he was an ad-
 323 s. d. d. d. d., d d. d. 324 d. 325 326
 MR. BERNARD  said, having had occasion to address the House in the early part of the last Session on moving for leave to bring in a Bill of a similar purport to that now before them, and having been induced to withdraw that Bill on the assurance of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board that the subject would shortly be brought under the consideration of the Government, he wished to express how much he was gratified at the prompt manner in which this assurance had been carried out, and how ardently he hoped that the Bill now before them would pass successfully through the different stages of Parliamentary inquiry. After the able and clear exposition of the evils attending on parochial rating given by the right hon. President it would be presumptuous of him to occupy much of the time of the House by making any
 327 328 "In the course of more than forty years' professional observation I have very often had to deplore the effects of the additional toil imposed upon agricultural labourers who have to travel two, three, and four miles night and morning to and from the seat of their employment. I have witnessed many cases of severe and protracted illness, premature infirmity, and even death induced by this cause. There can be no doubt but that a labourer's services are more valuable and his health better preserved when he resides within the precincts of his labour. I should advocate union rating on this very ground." 329
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he was glad one hon. Member of the House had been found beside the right hon. Gentleman himself, who was entirely in favour of the Bill, for the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down was the only speaker in the debates who had not made objections to the proposal of his right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board. It was of much service that great social questions, like the present, should be discussed in the tone and temper which had been shown on the present occasion. He regretted he could not agree to the Bill which had been laid on the table. There were two aspects in which the measure had to be viewed—first, whether it would be to the financial advantage of the ratepayers of the country, and next, what was of paramount importance—whether it would be for the benefit of the poor. A good deal had been said about the residences and habits of the agricultural poor, and the question whether the poor were decently located, had been frequently discussed in that House. The right hon. Gentleman took power in the Bill—a proposal in which he (Sir John Trollope) agreed—to prevent the removal of the poor from one parish to another in the same union. But in all well-managed unions this had been hitherto practically the case. In the union in which he (Sir John Trollope) lived he could not call to mind a single removal
 330 331 332
 MR. NEATE  said, there were numerous cases in which injustice was wrought which the present Bill would cure without introducing any injustice to other classes. One point where the injustice existed was when those who had given their labour to fertilize the land in one parish were sent to encumber the rates of others; and if there was a transfer of liability effected by this Bill it was a just transfer, which gave to those who suffered from it no right for a moment to stop the progress of this measure, for the law of this country did not sanction the existence of a right which
 333 Vict.,
 MR. ADDERLEY : I hold in my hand a letter that in itself gives sufficient ground for the postponement of this Bill. I do not in any way ask for further information, but on the information we have, there is a necessity for certain preliminary steps before the Bill is allowed to pass. I do not oppose the Bill on the ground that has been alleged—of injustice to certain parishes. I believe there is a certain amount of injustice of a temporary and partial character, but I believe that no great measure of this kind can be passed without temporary and partial injustice. Acknowledging that injustice fully, I weigh against it the great benefit to the poor and the public, which I conceive to be contained in the measure. But in order to bring in a Bill of this kind, which,
 334
 MR. WARNER  said, he was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir John Trollope), the ex-President of the Poor Law Board, express himself so strongly in favour of the abolition of the Law of Settlement, and he entirely agreed with that right hon. Gentleman; but he could not understand how the hon. Baronet justified his own proposition that the Bill would unsettle the rights of property. It seemed now to be well understood, after the discussion which had taken place, that the reason of the opposition to the Bill was not the want of information, but the desire to maintain the parochial system in the relief of the poor. Now, he believed that it had been proved by overwhelming evidence that the parochial system was inadequate for the relief of the poor with justice to the ratepayer, and that some change was necessary. The hon. Member for Dorsetshire (Mr. Floyer) had with remarkable candour admitted that his opposition to the Bill was founded upon prejudice; and he told the House that while he was not prepared to speak positively of the feelings of the poor on this subject, he believed the poor man would prefer the security of the smaller and poorer area to that of the larger and wealthier, for the reason that the parish church was a more agreeable object to the eye than the union workhouse. There were in truth only two possible grounds on which the present parochial system could be defended—namely, the sentimental one taken up by the hon. Member for Dorset shire, and the other was that of vested rights. But there was no foundation for the doctrine of vested rights as applied to the case of one parish being more lightly rated than another. Parliament had never recognized any such rights, and had never scrupled to interfere with peculiarities of that kind. The Act of 1846 was a great interference, by which a tax of £5,000 a year was laid upon Norwich, the city he represented. On another occasion Norwich, which was a union of itself, came before Parliament for an alteration of its Act; and when it was found that one part of the city had been exempted from poor rates, Parliament did not scruple to alter that arrangement. It was not considered a vested right. Parliament had never refused to set aside these so-called vested rights when called on to do so by the general interests of the country. The parochial system had always been oppressive to the poor man; it had been
 336
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  rose to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, if, after the debate they had heard, he intended to press the Bill to a second reading? He would also ask the right hon. Gentleman, was he (Mr. C. P. Villiers) not originally, before the New Poor Law passed, one of the Commission of Inquiry? And had he not on every occasion since he had been in Parliament done everything he could to promote the principles of that Poor Law? And was not that Poor Law passed by a species of compromise? Did the House carry out all that the Commission of Inquiry recommended? He (Sir William Miles) believed that the Commissioners were one and all for a system of union rating; but how long a time elapsed after the passing of that Poor Law Act before they had the first Irremovability Bill? How long a time elapsed before any progress was made towards union rating? The right hon. Gentleman had given one instance, in which he said union rating had been carried out successfully; and that no doubt was true, but there were special reasons for that success. But what he and the country wanted to know was whether the House was to be called upon to affirm the principle of this Bill which totally altered every incidence of rating, which put on country parishes the burden of the towns, and that too upon the imperfect information they had before them? He had called on the right hon. Gentleman for certain information, and had proved to him how easily it could be obtained; but not a single atom, except to prove his own ease, of that information, had the right hon. Gentleman laid on the table. It might be said that it should have been moved for; but they were convinced they should get what they required in ample time, and no doubt would have done so had not the second reading been
 337 338 "That with a view to render the working of union rating more just and equal, it would be desirable to facilitate in certain eases the alteration of the limits of existing unions in England and Wales."
 MR. WALTER  said, he did not intend to occupy much of the attention of the House, but he wished to vindicate his right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board from the charge of indecency which had been brought against him by an hon. Gentleman opposite with regard to the hasty manner in which the second reading of that Bill was being proceeded with. If there was any subject which could be said more than another to have been before the country long enough to be thoroughly understood by all who
 339 onus probandi onus probandi 340 posse 341
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he was
 342 343
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON,  who rose amid loud calls for a division, said he would not give any factious opposition to the Motion, but having looked carefully over the Bill he did not exactly understand its operation. There was one point which had not been mooted, and it was this—if a sum of money had been left in charity for the relief of the poor of any parish, how would the trustees be enabled to use that money in paying the rates as now proposed? It might be said that the trustees of the charity would have only to apply for powers to the Charity Commissioners. But he thought the trustees would be very unwilling to go either to the Court of Chancery or the Charity Commissioners. Some clause should be introduced giving the trustees powers to dispense this money, which had been entrusted to them by the patriotism of some members of the parish.
 MR. HENLEY  said, with reference to the complaint of the want of information, that the President of the Poor Law Board had stated that the House had all the information they could have if they waited. Now, he did not think that the right hon. Gentleman had been quite candid with the House in this matter. He quoted, he said, the Return of 1861. The House would recollect these were the words of the right hon. Gentleman; but the right hon. Gentleman knew as well
 344 345 s. 346 s. s 347 348 d. d. d., d. 349 350 351 352 353 d., d., s. s.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had had personal experience in the relief of the poor, which enabled him to confirm the statements of his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) as to the evil which must ensue from increasing the area of chargeability and management. In the year 1860, the district which he represented, from Coventry to Atherstone, was plunged into distress by the operation of the Treaty with France upon the riband trade. The relief committee, with which he had acted, had for some time more than 20,000 people to sustain, whose maintenance the Poor Law organization was totally insufficient to supply. When the relief committee commenced its labours they had neither the benefit nor the guidance of those Acts which were subsequently passed with respect to the cotton districts. They had, therefore, to deal with the matter, looking first to the Poor Law organization, and then to the administration of relief from
 354 355
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  hoped that the House would divide upon the measure, as it had been fully and thoroughly discussed.
 MR. ALGERNON EGERTON  seconded the Motion for the adjournment, because he thought the House was not in possession of sufficient information on which to come to a decision. He hoped the second reading of the Bill would be adjourned until after Easter. He had received a communication from the guardians who were in the habit of meeting in the county which he represented, stating that they were anxious to discuss the measure, but that they had not had it brought under their notice hitherto. ["Divide, divide!"]
 356
 MR. FERRAND,  who also rose amid loud calls for a division, complained that the right hon. Gentleman who had introduced the measure had not considered the case of the manufacturing districts. Many manufacturers had been driven out of Bradford on account of the immense expense to which they were put, and by this measure these gentlemen would not only have to contribute towards the maintenance of the poor in their own districts, but would be also included in the list of those who supported the poor of the populous town, of Bradford.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he had given notice of his intention on the Vote for the Defences of Quebec to call the attention of the House to a very important point—what is reported to have been said in the Canadian Parliament relative to this Vote; but at that late hour he would not undertake to initiate a discussion upon so important a subject. If the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington) would consent to postpone the Report until Thursday he would then bring forward his Motion, but should that be inconvenient to public business he would take an opportunity on Tuesday, the 4th of April, to move for papers and extracts of Correspondence relative to the Defences of Canada.
 SIR JOHN HAY  hoped the noble Marquess would give an answer to the noble Lord. The question which it was desired to discuss was of great importance, and although the House had already had it under its consideration, yet it was desirable that the Government should afford an opportunity of still further considering it.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the Vote referred to had been passed.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that in the hum of conversation that had been going on in the House, he had not heard distinctly anything which the noble Lord had said; but he gathered that it was his intention on the 4th of April to move for papers with a view to a discussion upon the subject of the Defences of Canada.
 LORD ELCHO  admitted that as the Vote was passed it was now too late to repeat his request for an adjournment of the Report, and therefore he had no alternative but to announce that he would bring the subject under the notice of the House on Tuesday, the 4th of April.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he did not know on what authority the hon. Member could state that any objection had been made by the Canadian Government to the proposed arrangement. No information, no despatch, had reached him, which led to the belief that the Canadian Government were dissenting parties. He believed, on the contrary, that the Canadian Government would be found satisfied with the proposal made by Her Majesty's Government; and though no despatch had reached him which he was justified in quoting, his belief was that the Canadian Government would fulfil their part in the matter.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the House that the course which was being pursued in continuing the discussion on a Resolution which had alredy been disposed of was quite irregular. The Resolution now before the House was the last of the Report, and the question was that the House do agree with the Committee in the said Resolution. To that Resolution, therefore, the discussion ought to be confined.
 MR. BENTINCK  rose to Order, observing that he had moved the adjournment of the debate, and that he apprehended to be the Question before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman simply proposed to move the adjournment; but even admitting that he had moved it, and that the Motion had been seconded, still it would not have been open to him to enter on a discussion of the Vote for the Defences of Canada, which had already been agreed to.
 MR. BENTINCK  begged to second the Motion, remarking that the House was proceeding in a somewhat dangerous course, so far as the liberty of discussion was concerned, if the example of that evening were to be followed up. It was not his fault that his proposition had not reached the Speaker's ear, and he regretted it had not been put from the Chair. The result, however, which he sought to bring about would be as effectually secured by the Motion of his hon. Friend as that which he had made, and he, therefore, wished again to ask the Government whether, under the altered circumstances of the case, ample opportunity for the discussion of the important subject of the Canadian defences would be afforded?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : My noble Friend the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) stated, so far as we could make out, owing to the hum of conversation, that he wished the Vote for the Fortifications to be postponed; but that if it would be inconvenient to do that he would make a distinct Motion on Tuesday next, in which he would raise the whole question of the defences of Canada. Now, we accepted the latter alternative; and you, Sir, afterwards put from the Chair the Vote for Pensions to Wounded Officers. The hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) then moved, or intended to move,
 362
 LORD ELCHO  said, the noble Viscount had clearly stated what had taken place when he first rose to put a question to the Government. No answer, had, however, been as yet given by his noble Friend (the Marquess of Hartington) to that question. He would also remind the Secretary for the Colonies that the real point at issue was not whether Canada was prepared to accept or not a certain sum as the cost of the proposed fortifications, but whether there was a clear understanding between the two Governments as to the proportion which each was to bear. He thought he would be able to show that there was a certain amount of ambiguity and discrepancy existing on the subject between the two Governments; and he hoped if he were unable to bring on his Motion on Tuesday next he would have an opportunity of doing so on the following Thursday, which would, in all probability, be a Supply night.
 MR. CARDWELL  explained that he did not say that he had received from Canada any despatch accepting the proposal of the Government. What he did say was that he was not aware of anything which would justify the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) in stating that the Canadian Government had expressed dissatisfaction with their proposal, or had refused to perform their part in the defence of their country. He understood that a deputation from the Canadian Government was coming over here to have a conference with Her Majesty's Government upon the subject.
 MR. SPEAKER : In putting the Question I desire to say a word upon the point of Order. As I have already stated, there were two opportunities upon which any hon. Member who wished to address the House upon the subject of the fortifications in Canada might have done so—one upon the Question that the Resolution should be read a second time, and the other upon the Question that the House should agree with the Committee in the I Resolution relating to that subject. There has been, I admit, one irregularity, and
 363
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, that there were other irregularities besides that referred to by the right hon. Gentleman. Questions were sometimes read in a half whispering tone, so that Members sitting on the further benches could not possibly know what was really going on; and sometimes when they supposed that they did know what was going on they were told that the time had gone by, and that they had missed their opportunity. As he understood the matter, his hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk did not make his Motion for the purpose of raising a discussion, but only to elicit from the Government a clear understanding as to what day they would afford the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire an opportunity for bringing on the question of the Defences of Canada.
 COLONEL DICKSON  asked whether any changes were made in the Bill, so as to make it different from that of last year? The Bill was one which scarcely any of the Members had seen.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that if the hon. and gallant Gentleman had not seen the Bill it was his own fault, because it had been printed. There were only some slight changes, and none affecting the army of England—their object being to bring the Mutiny Act of
 364
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was an inconvenient practice to alter clauses of a Bill which was not printed as amended. The noble Marquess said that the alterations were of no importance; but that was a matter of opinion. Those alterations should not be passed without the House having had an opportunity of seeing them.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not persevere in his Motion. It was necessary that this Bill should be passed before Easter, and if it did not go through Committee to-night it would probably be necessary to defer the commencement of the Easter holidays. As far as he was aware, there were no alterations of any importance in the Bill. Fifty copies had been printed, and were at the Vote Office for the use of those who wished to see them.
 COLONEL DUNNE  hoped that his hon. Friend would not press his Motion for reporting Progress, for there would be great inconvenience if the Bill were not passed before the 1st April. He had got a copy of the Bill, and he could not see that there were any great alterations in it.
 LORD HOTHAM  called attention to a matter he considered of the greatest importance to the profession of which he had had the honour to be a member. If the statements made in the public papers as to what had been recently said by the Judge Advocate General in the House were true, he could only say it was a matter calculated to bring suspicion and discredit on the administration of the military law of the country. It had been reported in the ordinary channels of information that in the beginning of the month an hon. Gentleman made an inquiry of the Judge Advocate General as to what period of time a man could be kept in confinement after a court-martial upon his conduct had concluded; and further, whether it was true that two soldiers had been kept in confinement for many weeks after the courts-martial had con-
 365
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he brought this subject on a former occasion under the no-
 366
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he was asked on a former occasion whether there was any precise time a man could be kept in custody between the closing of the court martial and the promulgation of the sentence, and if he had seen the case of the two men referred to. He answered then that he had not seen the case referred to, and that with regard to the promulgation of the sentence there was no specified time for doing so; but he did not mean by that that a man was to be kept for any lengthened time in custody. The practice was to take up a number of cases at one time to Her Majesty for her approval; but Her Majesty had stated her readiness at all times to give audience in these cases. Some delay also took place after that. He had followed the practice of his predecessors; but he thought an alteration for preventing so much delay as was now the case in some instances was necessary. If the case referred to had been brought to his notice he should have inquired into it, and should, no doubt, have taken a course that would have prevented so long a delay before its promulgation.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that during the time he held the Office of Judge Advocate General, no such delay had taken place as that referred to in the case that had been particularly brought under the notice of the House. He could also state that Her Majesty was always ready to give audience in such cases.
 COLONEL DICKSON  asked, why the same practice was not adopted in Military Courts Martial as in Naval Courts Martial? In the latter, when an officer was acquitted his sword was immediately returned to him.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, simply because Naval Courts Martial did not require the approval of Her Majesty.
 MR. COX  said, he found in this clause four causes for which the infliction of corporal punishment was permitted—namely, desertion, disgraceful conduct, misbehaviour, and stealing. Now, it might be easy enough to define desertion, but disgraceful conduct was an indefinite term, and misbehaviour was more indefinite still. The Return of the number of lashes inflicted
 367
 LORD ALFRED CHURCHILL  seconded the Motion. He considered that so long as the clause was retained in the Act we should never get good men to enlist.
 MR. WYLD,  in seconding the Amendment, said, that of late there had been a manifest improvement in the conduct and condition of the soldier, and it was his firm conviction that not many years would elapse before this punishment and that of flogging would be abolished both in the army and in the navy. There was no doubt that these punishments operated as a great discouragement to recruiting for both services.
 MR. WHITE  said, that as long as this class distinction of making private soldiers and sailors amenable to these punishments was kept up there was an end of the boasted maxim that all Englishmen were equal in the sight of the law.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, this punishment was rarely inflicted, and, in fact, it was retained more as a precaution than a punishment. It was to prevent men who had been dismissed or had left his regiment with ignominy being enlisted in another, and thus to save the country the expense of re-enlisting such bad characters. The Return before the House showed how rarely these punishments were inflicted. It was only the perfectly incorrigible characters who were subjected to them, and they need not deter good men from entering the army, because the fact of their being good men secured them from their infliction.
 MR. COX  asked why the distinction between the army and the navy was kept up?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he found it gave power to the Secretary of State for War in a foreign State—namely, in the Ionian Islands; and that Clause 52 also gave the same power. It showed the manner in
 369
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  admitted that the section was not very carefully drawn. No harm would be done by retaining the words, but he would consent to omit them.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that the clause referred to negroes purchased by Her Majesty's Government previous to the abolition of slavery. He wished to know whether there were any such negroes in Her Majesty's service?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  did not believe that there were any, and would therefore consent to the omission of the words.
 MR. DUNLOP : The hon. and learned Gentleman has not answered the second part of my question.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he would now beg to ask Mr. Attorney General to what extent and effects, if any, Patents erecting Episcopal Sees in colonies having representative Legislatures, or in which the Church of England has not been previously by law established, and purporting to confer ecclesiastical jurisdiction, are valid and operative; and also to inquire under what statutory or other authority the Queen, as Sovereign of the United Kingdom, issues Patents for the erection of Episcopal Sees, in accordance with the religious system established by Law in only one part of the United Kingdom—England—in colonies which never where, at any time, colonies of England, but have been from their origin British colonies.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he would, pursuant to notice, beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether, looking to the recent decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the case of Bishop Colenso, by which, with reference to Colonies with representative Legislatures, or in which the Church of England has not been established by Law, Patents for the erection of Episcopal Sees therein, purporting to confer ecclesiastical
 276
 MR. CARDWELL  said, with reference to Canada, the practice of issuing Letters Patent for the appointment of a Bishop had been for some time discontinued. The practice in Canada now was that the Bishops were selected by the clergy of the colony, and those Bishops derived their civil rights from the Legislature of the colony. With respect to issuing Letters Patent for other colonies, he begged to assure his hon. Friend that this very important subject had been brought under the consideration of the Government by the recent decision of the Privy Council, and was receiving the careful attention of the Government. No Letters Patent would be issued to any colony until the subject was fully disposed of by the Government.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the postal arrangements in the county of Fife were not so satisfactory as the Post Office wished to make them. When the Post Office requested the North British Railway Company (he believed) to allow such terms as the Post Office considered reasonable for the more general use of their trains, the Company declined to accede to them. The negotiations were not successful; but they were still in progress, and he hoped the result would turn out to be satisfactory.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If the Committee appointed to consider the subject of Recruiting in the Army have reported; and, if so, whether the Report will be laid upon the table of the House?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, the Committee, which he supposed the hon. and gallant Gentleman referred to, was a purely Departmental Committee. It was composed of some officials of the War Office and of the Horse Guards, and was framed with a view of reporting to the Commander-in-Chief certain details connected with the subject of recruiting in the army. The Report had only just been received, and was at present under the consideration of the Secretary of State. If his hon. and gallant Friend would repeat his Question at a later period, he would be able to inform him when he would be prepared to lay the Report upon the table. The Committee, however, being merely a Departmental one their proceedings were not intended to be made public.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that Colonel Gallwey was the only Engineer Officer on the Select Committee, and it would be necessary for his place to be filled up by another Engineer Officer; but Captain Key, of the  Excellent,
 MR. PEEL  said, the hon. Gentleman proposed to have a Committee to inquire whether the practice of appointing a Peer to the office of Postmaster General was founded on any law or constitutional practice, and he (Mr. Peel) hoped in a few words to be able to satisfy him that it was quite unnecessary to trouble any Committee with such an inquiry. With respect to the law of the question he must refer to an Act passed at the commencement of the reign of Queen Anne, which provided that any person appointed to any new office of profit under the Crown, created after 1705, should be disqualified for election and for sitting and voting in the House of Commons. At the time that Act was passed there was in existence an office of Postmaster of England, which office was created in the reign of Charles II., but a few years after, in 1711, the office of Postmaster of England was abolished, and a Postmaster of Great Britain was created, which office was itself abolished in the first year of the reign of of William IV., when a Postmaster for the United Kingdom was appointed. His answer to the first part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman was, that the offices of Postmaster of Great Britain and of the United Kingdom had always been considered to be new offices of profit under the Crown to which the statute of Anne applied. He understood the hon. Gentleman to dispute the application of the statute of Anne to the office of Postmaster General, but he would find that the practice of that House furnished an uniform exposition of the law which was quite decisive upon the point. The office of Postmaster was in the beginning held jointly by two persons, and in 1708 it was held by Sir Thomas Frankland and Sir John Evelyn, who continued to hold it until 1715. Sir Thomas Erankland sat in the House of Commons as Member for Thirsk, and continued to sit until 1711, when the office of Postmaster of England was abolished, and the new office of Postmaster of Great Britain was created, to which the holders of the former office were jointly appointed. Upon reference to the Journals of the House it would be found that on the 7th of June, 1711, Sir Thomas Frankland vacated his seat, and a new writ was issued for Thirsk, for which he sat, and Sir Thomas Worsley was ap-
 383 384
 MR. DILLWYN,  in rising to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the present position of the Irish Church Establishment is unsatisfactory, and calls for the early attention of Her Majesty's Government," 385 386 History of the Irish Church, Life of Bedel, 387 388 389 Londonderry Guardian 390 "That this House will resolve itself into Committee of the whole House, in order to consider the present state of the Church Establishment of Ireland, with the view of applying any surplus revenues to the general purposes of education, without distinction of religion." Will. 391 392
 THE O'DONOGHUE,  in seconding the Motion, said, he was glad it had been submitted to the House in an intelligible and unambiguous form. The hon. Gentleman asserted that the present position of the Established Church in Ireland was unsatisfactory, and that there was some ground for that assertion was proved by the fact that it was sustained by the opinion of more than 4,500,000 of the Irish people, by the united voices of Europe and America, and by the statements of a considerable number of the hon. Gentleman's own countrymen, including several leading Members of Her Majesty's Government. The question, however, raised by the Motion was one which it was difficult, if not impossible, to discuss without exciting angry feelings, yet few, he hoped, would on that account be found to maintain that it ought to be passed over in complete silence. People at the present day were not expected to submit to a great public grievance in order to accommodate the feelings of others; and the answer to the objection that the Motion was calculated to produce religious dissensions was, "Let the Irish people have religious equality, and religious dissensions will no longer be found to prevail." But while he was anxious that the question should be discussed as frequently as possible with a view to its being satisfactorily settled, he was equally anxious to refrain from saying or doing anything which might even appear to reflect invidiously upon the religious
 393 394 395 396
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Owing to the terms of the Motion itself, and to the direct appeal which the hon. Gentlemen who moved and seconded it have made to Her Majesty's Government, I think it right at once to state that Her Majesty's Government deem it their duty not to give their assent to the Resolution proposed. Before stating the reasons which have governed their decison, let me express my entire agreement with the observation made by the hon. Member for Tralee (the O'Donoghue) at the commencement of his speech, that the discussion of this question does not involve any expression of opinion upon points of doctrine. My opposition to the Motion, therefore, will not be rested upon what I conscientiously believe to be the truth of the religion which I profess, and still less will I impugn the religion of those who differ from me. In discussing this question it would also, I think, be better to keep clear of incidental details, such as those relating to the exercise of patronage which the hon. Member referred to. In this country, I have no doubt parallel cases might be found, if they were narrowly sought for; our decision ought to rest upon much broader grounds. I regretted also that in the speech of my hon. Friend some reflections were cast upon a man so eminent as the late Primate of Ireland (the Archbishop of Armagh), who was utterly undeserving of reproach.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that he had not meant to convey anything prejudicial to the character of the late Primate.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I accept the explanation of my hon. Friend, but I am sorry he thought it necessary to adopt the invidious course of calculating the total amount of income which the right rev. Prelate received during the years of his Episcopacy and Primacy. I can assure
 397 398 399 400 401 402
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : In taking part in the debate which has arisen on this important subject I trust that I shall follow the example which has been set by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey), and by the hon. Member (the O'Donoghue), and say nothing calculated to wound the feelings of anybody who may differ from me. At the same time I must speak, firmly and strongly, on behalf of those opinions which I hold with respect to the Irish Church, or rather that branch of the United Church of England and Ireland. Sir, it was said by Mr. Ward, when bringing forward this question, on more than one occasion, as has also been said by the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir George Grey), that this was a question which the strongest Government could not carry without disturbing the honest convictions of many, and wounding the feelings and sentiments of those whose sympathies are enlisted with the Irish Church. I am not surprised that the question has been raised. It is impossible to be surprised at it. Nor am I surprised at the quarter from which the movement comes. The hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), with that candour which he always uses in this House, has shown us the objects he has in view, and the party with which he is acting; and we see at once that the hon. Member, though he may not be pre-
 403 404 405 406 407 408 "The opinion of this House that the present position of the Irish Church Establishment is unsatisfactory and calls for the early attention of Her Majesty's Government." 409 "To re-open that great question of Irish and British politics, which agitated Parliament, governed parties, and disorganized Ireland.….We ought not to disturb a question of this sort, touching the foundation of the moral, social, and political interests of the people, without grave cause, and without a well founded hope of bringing
 410 Hansard, & "Now, as I wish to speak with as much frankness as the hon. Gentleman who spoke last, let me not be misunderstood as saying that this character belongs generally to the lay members of the Roman Catholic Church. I am far from saying so. I am far from denying that there are many Members of this House, and many members of the Roman Catholic persuasion, both in this country and in Ireland, who are attached to the throne and to the liberties of this country; but what I am saying, and that of which I am convinced, is, that if the Roman Catholic clergy had increased power given to them, and if they, as ecclesiastics, were to exercise greater control and greater political influence than they do now, that power would not be exercised in accordance with the general freedom that prevails in this country; and that neither in respect to political circumstances nor upon other subjects would they favour that general freedom of discussion and that activity and energy of the human mind that belong to the spirit of the constitution of this country. I do not think that in that respect they are upon a par with the Presbyterians of Scotland. The Presbyterians of Scotland, the Wesleyans of this country, and the Established Church of this country and of Scotland, all, no doubt, exercise a certain influence over their congregations; but that influence which they thus exercise over their congregations must be compatible with a certain freedom of the mind—must be compatible with a certain spirit of inquiry, which the ministers of these churches do not dare to overstep, and, which, if they did overstep it, that influence would be destroyed. I am obliged, then, to conclude—most unwillingly to conclude, but most decidedly—that the endowment of the Roman Catholic religion in Ireland in the place of the endowment of the Protestant Church in that country, in connection with the State, is not an object which the Parliament of this country ought to adopt or to sanction. Sir, these opinions of mine may lead to
 411 Hansard, 412 413 "The plans which were in contemplation included, in the first place, measures of considerable benefit to the Establishment, calculated to promote both its honour and its advantage, and to render it far more adequate than it now can be to the purposes for which it was provided." 414 "I regret all these nostrums; they are incompatible with that preference which the Protestant State of England, as a fundamental principle, has decided on giving in favour of the Protestant Church Establishment. I stand upon the choice made by this country at the Reformation, sealed by the Act of Settlement, and ratified by the Act of Union. I hold that preference to be among the firmest foundations of our liberties." "It has been the object of the Government, and will continue to be its object, to remove all the abuses which exist in connection with the Irish Church, to purify it to the utmost; but, after having removed these abuses, and after having thus purified it, it is the intention of the Government to use its best efforts resolutely to maintain it as the Established Church of Ireland."—[3  Hansard, 415 "There are many who really think, and some who affect to think, that great dangers may result from concession to the Establishment. I declare solemnly that if I could enter into that opinion—if I could see anything of peril to the Church or State—dear to my heart as are the interests of my fellow men, I would abandon these long-asserted claims, and range myself with their opponents.…….On the part of the Roman Catholics, I will be bold to say that they harbour no principle of hostility to our Establishment.……Every rational Roman Catholic feels himself no more at liberty to attempt the subversion of our Establishment than to entertain the unworthy purpose of depriving an individual of his property."—[2  Hansard, "I think I had a good right to conclude from the declared opinion of the chosen champion of the Roman Catholics themselves, speaking distinctly with their authority, that the removal of those disabilities was compatible with the maintenance of the Protestant Establishment, and that they did not regard the maintenance of that Establishment in the light either of an insult or an injury.……Then, with respect to the Union, I think there cannot be a doubt that Mr. Pitt intended to assure the Protestant mind in England and Ireland that the Protestant Establishment, as it then generally existed, should be thereafter maintained.….If ever public engagements were made for the maintenance of any public institution, those engagements were made at the time of the Union, when the Protestant Parliament of Ireland consented to the relinquishment of their independence as a Parliament; and I must say, as an actor in the great event of 1829, that I do believe it was the intention of the Government or of the Parliament of that day to create an impression in the Protestant mind of this country that the removal of the Roman Catholic disabilities was not only compatible with the maintenance of the integrity of the Church, but that the integrity of the Church should be maintained."—[3  Hansard, 416 417 418 pp. 419 Ironical cheers from and others. 420
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Hardy) has stated his views, as we must all have expected, with conspicuous ability. I am free to confess that there are points in his speech, and those neither few nor unimportant, in which I agree with the hon. Member, and there are some which will carry with them the almost universal concurrence of the House. For my part, the hon. Member's view of what I may call the ecclesiastical history of Ireland is, I think, more near the truth than that of my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), who contended that until the latter part of the 11th century there was nothing that could be called a Church in Ireland. I agree, also, with the defence of the Irish Church which the hon. Gentleman has made, so far as it rests on the assertion that there is to be found no such amount of flagrant abuses as would of themselves justify a violent interference with its existence, or any licence of Parliamentary attack. My belief is that as far as abuses, in the common sense of the word, are concerned—that is, those which depend on the conduct of the bishops and clergy, and which are remediable by the wisdom and energy of the clerical body, or the purity of life of its lay members—it is my belief that the Irish Church is perfectly free from such abuses. We must all accord to that Church this praise; that her clergy are a body of zealous and devoted ministers, who give themselves to the high purposes of their sacerdotal functions in a degree not inferior to those of any Christian Church. With respect to her prelates,
 421 422 423 424 425 426 427 428 429 s. s. 430 431 432 433 434
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, the speech which the right hon. Gentleman has just delivered was well deserving of our undivided attention. But there were one or two observations made by the hon. Gentleman who introduced this question, and one or two assertions made by him which I think demand our special notice. Now, the form and words of the hon. Gentleman's Resolution are of no importance whatever. The real object which we have, is to discover what is the purpose of the hon. Gentleman in making this Motion. The terms of this Motion, made from time to time, varied according to the failing fortunes of his party. A few years ago, on a summer night, I heard a Gentleman who then represented Rochdale (Mr. Edward Miall) make a Motion in a speech to which I listened with great interest, never having heard before the opinions of the English Puritan so thoroughly represented in Parliament. I was informed that the Gentleman in question was a leading Nonconformist in this country. He spoke with great calmness, and apparently with an air of philosophic candour. He temperately disposed of the Irish Church by consigning it to the Incumbered Estates Court to be 6old by auction, and proposed to appropriate the funds arising from it to the erection of lunatic asylums or some kindred establishments. Now that was the notion of the hon. Gentleman; and the question then arose as to who ought to be the first inmate of the lunatic asylum so to be erected. But there was a remarkable sentence, though a short one, uttered at the end of his revolutionary speech, to which I wish to call the attention of the House. When the hon. Gentleman had thus disposed of the Irish Church property, the glebes, its lands, and tithe rents, one question still remained for solution. What was to be done with the sacred edifices? The hon. Gentleman, in the spirit of a Christian, concluded his speech by saying perhaps the most satisfactory arrangement that could be made in regard to the sacred edifices would be to leave them to the believers in the Church. Now, among those who supported the Motion of the hon. Gentleman to whom I am referring, I find the name "Mr. Dillwyn." The hon. Member now brings forward a Motion which attacks in terms as indefinite as the Chancellor of the Exchequer could desire the Church of England in Ireland. There is certainly no peculiar point or meaning
 436 437 438 439 Confession, Hymns of St. Patrick, Book of Armagh, 440 441 442 443 444 445 Hansard, 446 447 448 449
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, from the bottom of my heart I congratulate my hon. Friend the Member for Swansea. If he does not carry his Motion, if he does not gain the present, he has, at least, gained the future. This debate will become historical, for in the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer I see the beginning of the end of the great Irish difficulty. The Chancellor of the Exchequer quite misconceived the object of my hon. Friend. His Motion points not at a Bill, but at an inquiry, and all the arguments directed against him on the supposition that he wished Government immediately to lay a measure upon the table are beside the mark. Turning, however, from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who substantially agrees with us, I address myself to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down. The right hon. Gentleman called up the Union spectre, and alluded more especially to the 5th article. But, as has been pertinently asked—is the 5th article of the Union more sacred than the 4th? can it be so sacred, for did not the 4th article settle the proportion of power to be exercised by the two contracting parties in the Councils of the Empire? Well, then, has not the 4th article been altered? Did not the Tory predecessors of the right hon. Gentleman acquiesce in that altera-
 450 451 452 453 454
 MR. COGAN  said, the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) had made an admission which was striking, and might be prophetic. He stated that the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer were fatal to the existence of the Church. The proposition of the hon. Member for Swansea was divided into two heads. The first was, that the present state of the Irish Church was unsatisfactory; the second, that the Government ought to inquire into and remedy that unsatisfactory condition. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had dealt with both branches of the question. With regard to the unsatisfactory state of the Irish Church, the right hon. Gentleman had placed it before the House in such a conclusive way that it was unnecessary to pursue the question. The right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) said that inquiry meant destruction. He believed that there was something in this view, seeing that inquiry would disclose such anomalies in the Irish Church, as would convince the country that it ought not to be endured. But what would the friends of the Church say to this? He (Mr. Cogan) was at a loss to understand how a friend of the Church could put forward such an argument. Considering that the Parliament was in its expiring days, would it not be desirable to leave out the last portion of the Motion, and simply declare that the state of the Irish Church was in an unsatisfactory state? He believed that an overwhelming majority would affirm this proposition. The Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to think that, as they had been baffled in their last attempt to deal with the subject, they should hesitate before they made another such attempt. But the question was waiting solution; and on it the Ministry must stand or fall. The duty of the Minister was to advocate great principles, irrespective of being in office or out of office. It was great principles that bound party together, and if the Government were wise, they would endeavour to enlist the sympathies of the Liberal Irish representatives and ally with them that large phalanx of Irish Members
 455
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) had a short time ago stated that the Established Church in Ireland would not last long. He advised the Government to deal with the measure, to prevent those on the Opposition Benches from leaping over their heads in the matter.
 LORD STANLEY  said, the observation which he had made was that the question of the Irish Church would lead to considerable discussion.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he concurred in the opinion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that every Government must be more or less guided by public opinion.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, in reference to the statements made by the hon. Member for Swansea as to certain appointments in the Irish Church, and with regard to the Bishop of Derry, to whom the hon. Member attributed so large a revenue, that the late Mr. O'Connell resisted the reduction of that bishop's income, because he was the only prelate in the Irish Church who advocated religious liberty.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that so far as the Government were concerned, they were quite willing to abide by the decision of the House. If the House thought an adjournment desirable, the Government had no objection.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he objected to the discussion of the
 456
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take advantage of the change in the Ordnance Select Committee occasioned by the retirement of Colonel Gallwey to associate another Naval Member with that Committee?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Sir, I am anxious to make a personal explanation, and in order to set myself right with the House I will move "the adjournment—a course I never before adopted since I have had the honour of being a Member of this House. When I brought forward the question of the Ionian Islands' pensioners the other evening I made two statements, both of which received a most emphatic contradiction from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The statements were these:—First, that the Duke of Newcastle, when Colonial Secretary, and when the cession of the Ionian Islands was under consideration, counselled the British officers who served Her Majesty in those islands to accept a guarantee for their pensions from the Greek Government, for this reason—if they were paid their pensions by the Greek Government they might at the same time hold appointments under the British Crown. The other statement which I made was this—that an understanding having been entered into with the Duke of Newcastle, it was violated by the advice of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 373 "In the debate upon the Ionian Islands pension question I perceive that Mr. Gladstone—"
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  then continued to read the letter, which, after alluding to a denial on the part of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a promise was ever given by the late Duke of Newcastle, because his Grace would not have repudiated it had he given it, proceeded in the following terms:—
 "There can be no doubt that the late Duke of Newcastle never did, nor ever would, have receded from nor repudiated any promise he had made. This unenviable task devolved on others after he became incapacitated from attending to public business, shortly before the signature of the Treaty of the 29th of March, 1864. You are quite accurate in stating that his Grace, acquainted as he was with the provisions of the Ionian pension law, expressed his regret that he could not succeed in obtaining for us a British pension, but that a Greek pension would at least have the advantage over a British one of being tenable with employment under the British Crown; and that as to the doubtful security of the Greek Exchequer, Great Britain would see those pensions paid. His Grace added that he would place his opinion on record in such a manner as to bind his successors. You were, therefore, entirely justified in the statements which you made, and of which I am ready to assume the whole responsibility. "P. M'C. COLQUHOUN." 374 "I likewise spoke about the compensations to the  employés
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : The language used by the right hon. Gentleman was this—
 "He (Mr. Cochrane) had brought a serious charge against the late Duke of Newcastle, for he had accused that nobleman of departing from an agreement which he had made with these gentlemen. For his own part, he did not know that any such agreement had ever been entered into by the late Duke of Newcastle. …He must say that he possessed so much confidence in the honour of the late Duke of Newcastle that he felt convinced that no such agreement ever existed." "His hon. Friend had not laid before the House the grounds upon which he asserted that the engagement he had stated had been made."
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, another distribution has, in point of fact, been advertised in India. The roll, however, has not as yet been sent home. I inquired whether the first roll could not be made available, but was told that it was so inaccurate it was absolutely necessary to wait for the new roll to come home.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the operations in Bhootan had been undertaken at the recommendation of the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal, but the troops were not to occupy territory, but only to hold a line of forts to protect our own frontier. With regard to the second point, no new orders had been issued on the subject, but it had been from time immemorial the standing rule not to make any new appointments above a certain value without the sanction of the Home Government.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH,  in bringing before the House the subject of which he had given notice, said, that it was one, if not of pressing emergency, at all events of considerable constitutional interest. The office to which his Motion related appeared to stand in a peculiar position. Every other office connected with the Government was understood to be capable of being filled by Members of that House; the office of Postmaster General alone must, it would seem to be contended, be filled by a Peer. So late as last Session, the noble viscount opposite (Viscount Palmerston) when questioned as to whether a fair number of the Offices in his Government were filled by Members in that House, stated that, as a matter of course, the Postmaster General was a Member of the other House. In a popular account of the Post Office published the year before last, he found it stated that the Postmaster General must be a Member of the House of Lords; but no reason for that statement was given. This was certainly a remarkable anomaly; was it founded on any reason? His object was to ascertain whether any such reason existed; and he asked for a Committee of Inquiry for the purpose. The history of the office was connected with the civilization of the country. It was first mentioned in the reign of Henry VIII., who
 379 Tom Jones, Let humble Allen with an awkward shame Do good by stealth and blush to find it fame. 380 381
 COLONEL VANDELEUR  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether any or what disposition has been made of the property of the late Alexander Casey, of the county Clare, forfeited to
 371
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that a letter commenting on a debate in this House was not in order.
 MR. SPEAKER : I am much obliged to the hon. Member for desiring to observe the Rules of the House, I must remark that he will better satisfy those Rules by I not moving the adjournment, having had the full opportunity of making his personal I explanation.
 MR. SPEAKER : As the hon. and learned Gentleman appeals to me, I will venture to call to the recollection of the House what its Rules are with respect to proceedings of this nature. A debate has taken place and has passed by; but if an hon. Gentleman desires to make a per-
 377
 MR. SPEAKER : I invite the hon. and learned Member to consider whether it will be in accordance with the Rules of the House to go back to a discussion which has lately taken place; because the hon. and learned Member is not now confining himself to personal explanation;
 378
 MR. ROEBUCK : In obedience to you, Sir, I abstain at once from making any further observations. Another opportunity will, no doubt, be given me of justifying my assertion. I have said what I have said, and the justification will come hereafter.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Allow me, Sir, to say that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has been allowed to make statements also, and in these statements he has distinctly impugned the veracity of a gentleman who is not a Member of this House.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then, Sir, I will move the adjournment of the House. I did not wish to take that step, but the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman has forced me to do so. A charge was made against the right hon. Gentleman, and he attempted to get out of it by withdrawing from the hon. Member (Mr. Cochrane) his implied imputation on his veracity. But a practised rhetorician like the right hon. Gentleman knew how to shape his phrase so as, while withdrawing the imputation from the hon. Member who is present to shift it to the absent person who had given the hon. Member his information. Now, Sir, I am here to say that the whole of this matter from beginning to end has been a disgrace to the British Government, and I will add that the chief person on whom that disgrace rests is the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I will justify what I have said—["Order!"] and that to the meanest capacity in this House. ["Order, order!"]
 MR. ROEBUCK : I rise to Order, Sir. I shut my mouth at your command, and I now appeal to you whether there shall be a reply upon what I have not said.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I do not know, Sir, whether I am strictly in order—
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am really, Sir, as much at a loss as when I began to know what words, what expression, what idea, what suggestion conveyed in those words it is that my hon. Friend complains of. I did not impugn the veracity of my hon. Friend, but I endeavoured to show that he must have been inaccurately informed. I did not presume to state that the Duke of Newcastle had not made such an agreement. ["Oh!"] Has not my hon. Friend just read the very words in which I stated that I was convinced the noble Duke had not made such an agreement? And is not that a different thing from stating, as a matter of fact within my own knowledge, that he had not made such an agreement? How could I under take to state with regard to one who is, unhappily, removed from among us what he had done in answer to a statement of that kind, not resting upon any words of his own, but upon the assertion of some one not in this House, who had been in communication with him? What I endeavoured to show was this:—The Duke of Newcastle was ultimately a party to the arrangement made with regard to
 376
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As far, Sir, as I am concerned, I confess I do not quite understand in what sense the statement just delivered by the hon. Gentleman is a personal explanation affecting his own character or veracity. No charge whatever of that kind was made by me against the hon. Gentleman on the former occasion—absolutely none; and, moreover, I venture to tell my hon. Friend that if he thought I had made such a charge the proper course would have been to take notice of it there and then; for then it would have been my duty to explain. [Mr. BAILLIE COCHRANE: I had not then got the letter.] I must distinguish between the soundness of my hon. Friend's arguments and his own personal veracity. I impugned, indeed, the soundness of his reasoning, and also showed grounds for believing that the statement which he made with regard to the Duke of Newcastle could not be correct. But
 375
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have impugned no man's veracity. ["Order, order!"]
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER ; Really, Sir—
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether there will be any further distribution of Lucknow Prize Money; and, if so, when it is probable the distribution will take place?
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that this Bill proposed to enlarge the powers of the Governor General for making laws and regulations in India, and to that he entertained no objection. He deeply regretted the result of recent operations in Bhootan, which reflected no lustre on our arms. He wished to know whether, a few months since, instructions had not been issued to Sir John Lawrence not to make any new appointments of greater value than £400 a year without communicating with the Homo authorities? He could not reconcile this petty interference with the professed object of this Bill, which would confer extensive powers in important affairs upon the Governor General.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether any measures are about to be taken to remedy the defects of the Postal System of Fife so frequently complained of?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL,  in reply, said, the property in question had been disposed of, by the fact of its having been left to the widow during her life; and at her death it was to go to a relative of the deceased husband. He begged to state to the hon. and gallant Gentleman that it would not be convenient to lay the papers connected with the case on the table of the House.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, there was no doubt that the subject was one of great importance to Ireland, but he could not concur in either of the propositions submitted to the House. He thought that the tax of 2 s. d. s. s. s. d.
 LORD NAAS  said, that the nuisance resulting from the number of dogs in Ireland was almost indescribable. He knew that in his county at lambing season a farmer having twenty or thirty sheep was obliged to keep a man up all night watching them to guard against the depredations of these animals; and yet, in spite of all precautions, a great number were always destroyed by the dogs. The evil was admitted on all hands ["No, no!"] He should like to know who said "No." The dogs in his hon. Friend's neighbourhood must be of a different race if they did not attack his sheep and lambs. The chief objection taken to the Bill before the House was that it would impose duties on the constabulary which they would have difficulty in performing; but he had always observed that any attempt to place additional duties on the constabulary was invariably opposed by those having the direction of that force. He had himself proposed that certain revenue duties should be performed by the constabulary, and the gentleman at the head of the force was terrified at the proposal; but he had since seen cause to change his opinion, and admitted that the plan worked well. The constabulary performed their duties generally in an efficient manner, but the Chief Secretary for Ireland, when he wished it to be believed that the constabulary were already overworked seemed to be drawing too largely on the credulity of the House. The plan suggested by the Chief Secretary was a very fair one, and he suggested that the present Bill, when read a second time, should be postponed until after the discussion on the proposed Government Bill, and if the House sanctioned that Bill, the one now under consideration would not, of course, be proceeded with.
 THE O'CONOR DON  thought the general feeling was in favour of something being done to check the undue multiplication of dogs in Ireland. Such a proposal was intended as much for the benefit of the poor as for the benefit of the rich; for many small farmers were unable to keep their sheep in consequence of the ravages committed by dogs. He did not wish to interfere with the gratification which any man derived from keeping a dog, but against the loss of that gratification must be set the loss now occasioned to property from the excessive number of those animals. A system of registration would enable them to make the owner look after his dog, and more effectually to enforce against him his present legal responsiblity for the injury it did to other people. The only reason for making the constabulary the instruments for giving effect to the law, and also for conducting the primary registration, was that by the fees paid upon such registration they would have some interest in seeing that
 467
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought it was generally admitted that some legislative remedy was needed in this case, and he believed that in Committee it would be easy to amend such of the details of the Bill as required improvement. He thought the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland might devise such a measure if he would consult with the Irish Members on the subject.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would vote with the Chief Secretary for Ireland if the House went to a division. If the Government said the constabulary were not fit to take charge of the working of that measure, he must accept that opinion; and that objection was fatal to the Bill. In England they taxed the dogs which had been kept in the preceding year, and they did that from the utter impossibility of taxing them prospectively. That fact, also, went to the root of everything in the present Bill, which required, as the first thing, that the owner of a dog should give a certain notice. In England they did not attempt to deal with puppies, but left them alone. By the Bill, every man who had a dog that was not registered was made liable to a fine of 5s.; so that if a man happened to have a number of bitches, it was easy to see to what cumulative penalties he might be exposed almost before he was aware of it. He knew nothing of the number of dogs or puppies in Ireland; but if legislation was needed on the matter, it would be much better to follow the English mode, which was recommended by long experience of the assessed taxes, and make people pay for the number of dogs they had the year before—a fact which could be got at, and which would equally serve their purpose. Was it intended that there should be a license to shoot dogs that did mischief? It was very questionable wisdom to encourage people to take the law into their own hands, and if there was to be a shooting of dogs it was possible that some other shooting might take place.
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he did not admit that there was any force in the argument of the hon. Baronet as to the greater number of members composing the Chemists and Druggists Society compared with the Pharmaceutical Society. The one submitted its members to a very difficult examination, whereas the other did not subject its members to any examination whatever. The claim of the Pharmaceutical Society rested entirely upon the fact that it had ready a machinery suitable for conducting the proposed examinations; whereas, if the Bill of the hon. Baronet were adopted, it would be necessary to begin  de novo
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had some objections to the Bill proposed by the hon. and learned Member (Sir FitzRoy Kelly). He had been asked by the Pharmaceutical Society to undertake the conduct of that
 478
 SIR FITZROY KELLY,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, it was a measure which had been long and urgently required for the protection of the public, and it was desired by all the members of the respectable profession of chemists and druggists. It was well known to the House that as the law now stood there was absolutely no protection whatever for the public in general against the carrying on of the business of chemist and druggist, and consequently of the making up of medical prescriptions by persons altogether ignorant and incompetent. It had long been felt that the law ought to provide some protection against the dangers to which the public was exposed in this respect. The Medical Council had recently called the attention of the Government to this important subject in the hope that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary would himself introduce a Bill to provide a remedy against the evils complained of. It was not for him to arraign the Government, who he had no doubt had very good reasons for not attempting legislation on the subject; but as the Government had shown no disposition to act upon the suggestion made them, the Pharmaceutical Society, which had been long established, and whose acts and proceedings had conferred great benefit upon the public, thought it their duty to submit this measure to the consideration of the House. As the law at present stood, there was no qualification required, nor was any licence necessary to enable a man to start into business as a chemist and druggist. By the present Bill it was proposed to subject chemists and
 471 472 bonâ fide 473
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would assent, though, reluctantly, to this proposal.
 MR. BEECROFT  also recommended the hon. and learned Gentleman to allow his Bill to be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. H. FENWICK,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, stated that its object was to make the owners of dogs liable for injury inflicted by them on sheep and cattle. In fact, the Bill was one to assimilate the law in England with respect to injuries by dogs to sheep and cattle to that of Scotland and Ireland. At present there was no remedy as against the owner of a dog for injuries to sheep and cattle, unless it could be proved that the dog had been in the habit of worrying sheep or cattle, and there was often great difficulty in obtaining that proof. Such a law was obviously very absurd and unjust. The information he had received led him to believe that in almost every county in England very considerable injury was inflicted by dogs on sheep and cattle. In his own county, according to Returns received, there were no fewer than 962 cases of such injury to sheep alone, and in no instance had any compensation been obtained. The grand jury of the county, Poor Law Guardians, highway authorities, and agricultural societies had petitioned in favour of the Bill.
 MR. BAGWELL  thought the Bill suggested by the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland would answer the purpose as well, if not better than the measure under consideration. Colonel White, a large farmer in Ireland, had written to him that he had forty sheep killed by dogs in one year, and that, having reason to believe that the dogs belonged to his tenantry, he assembled them and asked them to reimburse him for his loss, and, on their refusal to do so, informed them that he would allow no one of them to keep a dog unless he paid 5s. a year to the schools on the estate, the result of which was that he never afterwards lost a sheep. The right hon. Baronet objected to the Bill on the score that it would throw a great deal of work on the police; but there was every reason to believe that the registration fee would tend greatly to the decrease of dogs, and the consequence would be that very little work would have to be done
 465
 MR. BAGWELL  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BRADY  said, the police were in truth a standing army, and if they were to be employed in the duties cast on them by this Bill, they would become ten times more distasteful than they were to the people of Ireland, and believing the principle of the Bill to be exceedingly exceptionable, he would second the Amendment.
 MR. BRADY  supported the Bill of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), and contrasted the importance of the two Societies referred to, and their respective claims upon the consideration of the House. The Pharmaceutical Society was composed of men of the highest knowledge in chemistry, and the examinations of the Society were formed upon a very high stand-
 476
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to know what steps the Government intended to take in this matter; as he would feel himself very much bound by what they did, because this was a matter which fell particularly within their cognizance.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, the Bill afforded an excellent illustration of the system on which the legislation for Ireland was generally conducted. A local, exceptional, and temporary state of things was found to exist, and straightway they based upon it a universal and permanent law. In certain parts of Ireland there had been a great depopulation, and as a necessary consequence of that there was a great surplus of dogs. These animals, having nobody to look after them or claim them, ran about the country wild, doing occasional mischief. But that only happened in Londonderry. Donegal, and those districts where the people, having had their dwellings levelled, had emigrated, or had gone into the workhouse, or had died by the roadside; and how were they to get at and register such dogs, which really had no owner? Were the police to shoot them, or hunt them down, and bring them before a jury? No depopulation had taken place in his own county (Wexford), and he had not heard of a single complaint there on this matter. Because a grievance existed in a few places, why were they to punish the whole country? Under that Bill nobody could keep a dog for the protection of his sheep or cattle without registering it; but in England the farmer could keep farm dogs free of trouble or charge. It would be better that the English assessed taxes should be extended to Ireland than that the present measure should become law. There was no warrant whatever for such a Bill; nobody would think of proposing it for any other country but Ireland. The Bill could not, in his opinion, be altered so as to be acceptable to the House, and probably the best way of dealing with it would be to reject it altogether.
 SIR THOMAS BATESON  briefly supported the Bill, observing that he had only the other day received a letter from his steward informing him that he was
 468
 MR. SCULLY  believed that the destruction of sheep in Ireland by dogs was greatly exaggerated, and objected to a different legislation on this subject being applied to Ireland from that which was in force in England and Scotland. Must there be a passport for a dog if it was transferred from one district to another? Again, how was a constable to tell that a
 466
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that the law in Ireland was as he had represented it. It only extended to sheep, not to cattle. But in Scotland the law applied to both sheep and cattle, which was the proper state of things. He hoped this Bill would be made applicable not only to England, but to Ireland, and he thought poultry might with great propriety be added to sheep and cattle.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE,  in reply, said he was surprised that the Chief Secretary should object to the police being intrusted with the duties which the Bill
 469 pari passu.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, it was only intended to register the owner's names.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that it was not brought forward with any view to the protection of game, but in the interest of the tenant farmers themselves. Great damage and loss was occasioned to the owners of sheep in Ireland by the enormous number of dogs which were at large in that country. From the earliest period of the day to the latest period of the night, all parts of the country swarmed with dogs, and many of the people seemed to think it impossible to perform the ordinary functions of life without having a dog at their heels. The dog had been called the friend of man; that was true, and in that sense the people of Ireland would never want friends; but he thought that in this case, as in some others, they might say, "Save me from my friends." He could best illustrate his case by reading extracts from some letters he had received. One gentleman said it was of very little use that wolves had been destroyed, for in that country they had what was equally obnoxious, an enormous multitude of useless dogs. Another gentleman, who was a medical man, complained that in going his rounds to see his patients he could not do so with safety, being constantly subject to the attacks of these animals. A gentleman from Belfast wrote that half-starved curs roamed about the streets, and were very dangerous to children and old persons, and that he was constantly afraid of being attacked by these animals in the by-streets. The destruction of sheep that went on was hardly credible. Compensation had been demanded by the butchers of Londonderry
 458 459 460 s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. 461
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no objection to the second reading of the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir FitzRoy Kelly). The Pharmaceutical Society was a very important and useful body, and if there were to be examinations of chemists and druggists those examinations might with safety be placed under the direction of the Council of that Society. There was no doubt these subjects required very careful consideration. The hon. and learned Gentleman was quite right in saying that Bills with reference to medical subjects had hitherto been very carefully inquired into. That was the case with the Pharmacy Act, which received the close attention of a Select Committee, of which his right
 477
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  distinctly disclaimed, on the part of those whom he represented on this occasion, the slightest intention to infringe or interfere with the privileges of the chartered body who were the clients of the hon. and learned Gentleman. The question was a public one—the sale of drugs. Dr. Taylor had recommended to the Government that the question of the sale of poisons should be taken into consideration. The Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman wont no further than this: it proscribed a certain examination, under the Pharmacy Act, to be undergone by all before they were qualified to make up medical prescriptions; but there was a very large portion of the trade earring on a lucrative business, that did not see or make up a medical prescription once in a week, and the Bill as to these would be comparatively useless. The trade was divided into two classes—namely, those who wished to become scientific chemists and those who carried on the trade of chemists and druggists, who required little or no qualification for the branch of the trade in which they had embarked. His Bill proposed to deal, not with common things sold over the counter, but only with poisons. The Pharmaceutical Society had no doubt existed for many years, was possessed of
 474 475
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  assented.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the constabulary would have to keep the books, and do all the necessary work. By the third clause of the Bill the money received for registration was to pass through the hands of the constabulary and the clerks of the Poor Law unions, but there was no effectual check provided with respect to the receipts and disbursements. He decidedly objected to that proposal. He should be happy to amend the Bill in Committee, but he thought it would be almost impossible to do so satisfactorily. He had turned his attention to the subject, assisted by the Inspector General of Constabulary, and the latter had submitted to him provisions for a measure which might meet to some extent the evils complained of. The heads of proposals were as follows:—That no person should be allowed to keep a dog without a licence, and was subjected to a penalty if he did so; the licence to be issued by the Inland Board of Revenue, and supplied by all the distributors of stamps and postmasters, the charge to be 2 s. d. s. s. d. 464
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that every hon. Gentleman who had been in Ireland was aware that a vast number of dogs were allowed to prowl about that country,
 462 463
 MR. MACKINNON  was understood to say that it was not his intention to introduce such a measure, for the present, at all events.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  presented a Petition from the Treasurer of Lincoln's Inn, signed by him on behalf of himself and the other Masters of the Bench of the Society. The Petition stated that in former Sessions of Parliament similar Bills had been introduced; that on those occasions the Benchers of Lincoln's Inn had petitioned against them, under the belief that the concentration might be attained by the Courts of Equity being allowed to remain in Lincoln's Inn, the Courts of Law being provided in the neighbourhood; but that during the present Session, the Petitioners, being unwilling to oppose the further progress of the measure, had determined to withdraw all further opposition, and in so withholding their opposition were influenced mainly by the consideration that the northern side of the
 490
 MR. CAVE  said, he thought that the object of the Bill ought to be accomplished, if at all, by means not of private, but of public legislation, applicable all over the country. If the principle were conceded, and schools like these were to receive public grants, the result would be a considerable annual addition to the Estimates.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he desired to point out that inconveniences frequently arose in connection with the way in which his right hon. Friend proposed that this Committee should be appointed. The Members whom the Committee of Selection should nominate would not be obliged to attend, and if the Committee of Selection should happen to select Members to whom it would be inconvenient to attend, the services of the selection would be entirely inoperative. He wished, therefore, to suggest that it would be very desirable if the Members appointed by the Committee of Selection in cases like the present were subjected to the same rules as were applied to Private Bill Committees, on which the attendance of Members was obligatory.
 Ordered, Sir George Grey.
 MR. COWPER  said, that he had never heard weaker arguments urged in opposition to a Bill than those of the Mover and Seconder of this Amendment. He maintained that an unfair construction had been put upon Mr. Pennethorne's evidence. From the year 1860, every one appeared to agree that 7½ acres would be amply sufficient for the new Law Courts, and in that opinion Mr. Pennethorne himself concurred. He distinctly stated when called before the Committee that the site was sufficient. But supposing for a moment that the Courts of Law could not be properly accommodated on the ground floor, nothing could be easier than to increase the accommodation by placing some of the courts on the first floor. He believed that even without this increase, which could be easily made, 5½ acres would be found sufficient for building, not only for the present but also for future requirements. The site itself was also not limited, because additional property in the immediate neighbourhood could easily be purchased. His hon. Friend behind (Mr. Henry Seymour) had stated that the Bill ought to be re-com-
 498 499
 MR. COWPER  assured the right hon. Gentleman that every care would be taken to make proper approaches, and he thought he might venture to state that there would be good access to the new courts, on all sides of the building.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in moving that the House should go into Committee on the Bill, said, it had origi-
 501 502 503 504 505 506 507 onus prohandi ne plus ultra onus 508 prohandi. 509 nisi vivá voce vivá voce
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he did not propose to go back to the old system. In England they had entirely got rid of the system of interrogatories, and the examination was  vivá voce
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in reply, reminded the House that both the Bills embodied, to a great extent, the same principle—that of establishing in Ireland the English system; the two Bills also agreed in abolishing the office of Master in Chancery; and really the points of difference between himself and his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Dublin were reduced to eight matters of procedure, and two important questions as to the constitution of the court, which were peculiarly fitted for discussion in that House rather than for a Select Committee. It was for the House to decide whether certain officers should be appointed, and whether the patronage of the offices they were to fill was to be assumed by Parliament or to rest with the Crown. As to the points of procedure, if these were to be considered by a Select Committee, it was highly probable that those hon. and learned Gentlemen who were most competent to deal with them would not be able to attend the Committee; and the consequence would be that all those points would have to be discussed over again in a Committee of the Whole House. If his right hon. Friend should succeed in getting the House to agree with him, there would be no difficulty in giving effect to his views; and if, on the other hand, he should succeed in carrying the clauses as they stood, he was sure his right hon. Friend would throw no difficulty in the way of having effect given to the pleasure of the House of Commons.
 MR. BROMLEY  thought that a question of such great importance ought not to have been brought on at such a late hour, involving, as it did, the credit of the metropolis, as far as the poor were concerned. [Mr. C. P. VILLIERS: The discussion can be taken in Committee.] He might say, that if he met with any encouragement on the part of the House he should propose to add to the Bill what he regarded as a most important clause when it went into Committee. The right hon. Gentleman had latterly, as he knew, exerted himself very much with a view to amend the condition of the poor; but he did not think that matters were in quite so satisfactory a state as the right hon. Gentleman had led the House to suppose on a former occasion. A glance at the streets would show that they were never so crowded with vagrants as at the present time, and that professional mendicancy had never attained such a height. The newspapers had lately been full of clothes-tearing cases—charges against mendicants who had gone into the workhouses seemingly for the purpose of rending their garments and going out again. Although the right hon. Gentleman would, no doubt, say that these cases arose, for the most part, from the establishment of refuges by private charity, he must say that a great many of these vagrants found their way into the metropolitan refuges established by the right hon. Gentleman. What was it, however, which had necessitated the establishment of refuges by private charity? Nothing but the deficiency of the Poor Law. It was that very deficiency which induced people to think
 534 cafás 535 pain á discrétion 536 537
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that this was a question which affected private property, and he could not consent to omit these fields from the Bill.
 MR. VANCE  opposed the Motion as being unnecessarily inquisitorial, invidious, and offensive, as regarded the authorities of the establishment in question.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  was of opinion that the Returns moved for ought to be granted. They were only a continuation of the Returns which had been given for many years past.
 MR. WHITESIDE  denied that a Return of this kind, specifying the names, religion, employment, and salaries of the officials of the Royal Hibernian Military School, was a legitimate one. He deprecated any such information being furnished on the Motion of a Member of that House.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  seconded the Amendment.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  also objected to the granting of the Return, which he described as being very inquisitorial.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that these two cases had been specially reported upon, and the Report was in the hands of Members. Epsom Common fields were cultivated land, belonging to twenty-eight persons, over which the public had no rights, and he therefore could not consent to omit them from the Bill. The other case referred to—that of Epsom Common—was one of the inclosure of a real common, and as some part of it was within fifteen miles of London he would consent to postpone its consideration.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was sorry that the hon. Gentleman would not accede to the reasonable proposal which had been made to him. There wanted some reform in this matter of inclosures. Inclosure Bills were intended to be a protection for the public; but instead of that they had been made the means by which open spaces had been withdrawn from the enjoyment of the public.
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the Chaplains' Quarterly Report has been abolished, and, if so, what has been substituted in lieu?
 MR. LYGON  said, he did not know whether the Government were prepared to give effect to what appeared to be the general feeling of the House when this matter was last before them; but, in order to raise the question, he meant to conclude by moving, as an Amendment to the Motion for the Speaker leaving the Chair, that the Bill be re-committed to the former Committee, and that it be an Instruction to such Committee to inquire into the capabilities of the Thames Embankment as a site for the proposed building. Notwithstanding the attention devoted to this measure in former inquiries, no opportunity had yet been afforded for considering whether the Thames Embankment would or would not present the proper site for the concentration of the new courts of justice. Only two sites had hitherto been considered. First, the Carey Street site, now adopted by Her Majesty's Government, and secondly, the only alternative site—a portion of Lincoln's Inn Fields—coupled with the offer on the part of those who possessed the freehold of Lincoln's Inn to make a very considerable metropolitan improvement. The latter proposition was rejected, and the Carey Street site approved of. But he maintained that the fact of the Carey Street site being approved of furnished no reason whatever why that House should be debarred from considering the large and important question of the site which was opened by the Embankment of the Thames. The extent of the site proposed to be taken in Carey Street the House was already familiar with. He would not, therefore, describe it beyond pointing out some material facts that would assist the House in the consideration of the question. The cost of
 491 492 pro tanto
 MR. AYRTON  said, he very much regretted that so important a discussion should have arisen at so late an hour, because it was impossible to enter into those details which the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Bromley) had with so much knowledge of the subject unfolded. He could not, however, allow the present opportunity to pass without saying that he did not believe the Bill of last Session had failed from any defect in its principle; it was rather because hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House had sedulously laboured to destroy its useful action by limiting its operation to a period of a few months. For his own part, he did not think it could be expected to effect the good which it was intended to accomplish unless it were made a permanent measure. But be that as it might, he must express his astonishment that any hon. Gentleman who had the slightest acquaintance with the working of our Poor Law system could have given utterance to observations so mischievous as those which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken. To contend that the Poor Law ought to be framed so as to be acceptable to the poor, appeared to him to be, to say the least of it, a doctrine of a most extravagant character; and if that theory were carried out in the metropolis the greatest possible injury would be inflicted on the in-
 539
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, this question had been viewed in two lights, the architectural and philanthropic. It was said the Carey Street site, as proposed in this Bill, would dispossess a number of poor people. That point had been got rid of, as it was shown that the removal of these houses would be a benefit to the poor people themselves. As to the architectural view, he thought the House ought not to allow itself to be influenced by that, since in very many cases where it had been considered the result had been far from satisfactory. The simple question for the House was whether this site was the most convenient. He thought it was, and that the object of the Amendment was simply to defeat the Bill altogether.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he did not at that hour of the night feel called upon to reply to puerile personalities, and he would shortly therefore proceed to state a few facts to show that the Bill was not open to the objections which had been urged against it. It was a measure founded on the unanimous Report of a Committee upstairs, and the only objection which had been taken to it last year was that it was proposed at too late a period of the Session. That circumstance, indeed, it was which had induced the House to limit its operation, while the cause of its enactment was that no adequate provision was made for the destitute wanderers in the streets of the metropolis, inasmuch as they did not belong to any particular parish. It was thought, and with some reason, that the property of the metropolis should provide for the maintenance of those people, and there was a Return stating what had been the result of the proposal. The House would learn from that Return that whereas before the passing of the Bill there was no certain provision made in the union for the wandering destitute poor, under its operation sleeping accommodation had been secured for them to the extent of 900 beds. It should be borne in mind, he might add, when the superior treatment which they received in the refuges was spoken of, that they were subjected to no test or no check on imposture; but the Return from these refuges had been sent to the Poor Law Board, and it would, he believed, be in the hands of Members tomorrow. As to the present measure, however, it might have fallen short of the expectations of some, it had not failed in its purpose, and there were under its operation thirty-nine or forty houses where there were persons up during the night to receive those who stood in need of shelter. The reason why the police were not at first authorized to take persons to the workhouses was that it was not certain that the guardians of all unions would adopt the Act. They had now done so, and had made adequate provision for the reception of these poor people; and he therefore intended to propose—and he had informed the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Bromley) of that intention—that the police should be empowered to take to these places any person whom they saw simulating misery or soliciting alms in the
 540
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that if his Motion met with any opposition he should not press it at that late hour. The object of the Bill was merely to continue another which had already expired. As many people were anxious to know whether the measure was to be continued, and as he understood that no opposition was to he offered, he hoped the House would allow the second reading to he carried, and any discussion to take place on the Motion for going into Committee on Monday next.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, seeing the difficulty of arranging the matter in dispute between the ironmasters and their men in respect to the Lock-out, he wished to know, Whether the hon. Member for Rye (Mr. Mackinnon) intends to introduce his Bill for the establishment of Courts of Conciliation?
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he was sorry that the Bill had been brought forward in its present shape, for he believed it to be the fact that while the refuges were full the workhouse wards were quite empty. The terms on which relief was offered to the poor at the workhouses were such that they would not accept it, and it was a cruel thing to delude them with such a snare as the measure now before the House. Owing to the harsh system which was adopted starvation reigned in the heart of London, and that starvation had
 538
 MR. WHALLEY  rose to address the House; but the cries for a Division were so loud that but a few detailed sentences of the hon. Member's speech could he heard.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he was I afraid the House was going to commit another great blunder in erecting a building, at an immense expense, upon a site I where a sufficient access could not be provided, and where the building could not
 496
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that he had already stated a few evenings since that the Chaplains' Quarterly Report had been abolished. In its place, full information would be given by means of additional questions in the Inspection sheets, with respect to the performance of Divine Service on board ships, the administration of the Holy Communion, the attendances at school, visits to the sick; or to other ships not having chaplains. These Inspections averaged about twice a year. An annual Return, besides, was now called for with respect to the educational state of the whole of the crews in the navy, and their religious denominations.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought the Bill which his hon. and learned Friend had described with so much ability should be referred to a Select Committee—not for the purpose of defeating a good Bill, but for the purpose of making a good Bill, which it was quite clear the Govern-
 510 511 vivá voce 512
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, it was to be done in a dark chamber, and that was the very thing to which he objected. The Master of the Rolls was strongly opposed to it, and here it was to be observed that the reformers were the Judges, and the anti-reformers the Law Officers of the Crown. He had seen a few days ago in Ireland an examination despatched in an hour which if conducted in a dark chamber would have lasted two or three days. The Master of the Rolls also said that the system of the Court of Chancery at that time amounted in a great measure to a denial of justice, and it was admitted by Mr. Pemberton Leigh that nobody could venture into that court unless the sum at stake was at least £1,000. An opinion was also expressed by a gentleman not then so well known to the House as he was now, but nevertheless admitted to be skilful, discreet, and learned, and that gentleman was Mr. Roundell Palmer. Mr. Roundell Palmer was then fresher and younger than now—he would not say more learned, but he was quite as competent to pronounce an opinion upon those principles which he had that night denounced with so much ability. He could not allow his hon. and learned Friend to escape. Mr. Roundell Palmer said it was an opinion very uniformly entertained that a very extensive reform must be carried out on such a principle as was incorporated in the Bill, and that such a remedy was absolutely necessary to restore efficiency and complete
 513 "Was calculated to work a most salutary reform in the proceedings of the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and if extended to England he had no doubt it would be found to work with equal advantage here." "He wished, as a member of the legal profession, to express his unbounded acknowledgments and grateful thanks to his hon. and learned Friend for having taken up a course of legal reform in that House, which would be most gratifying to the public, and which showed that he was treading in his father's footsteps and was likely to add lustre to the honoured name which he bore." 514 s. 515 "I find that there was a suit instituted in the Court of Chancery to get a decree for some property not exceeding in value £150. The costs amounted to £95 13 s; s. d. s. d., s. Hansard, "The great fault of lawyers is that they become so enamoured of the old system in which they have been bred and in its principles, that they refuse to see anything but good in its application, and they look with suspicion on any plan which is likely to make the form of judicial procedure less elaborate and less costly as likely to cause a departure from that exactness in which they believe justice resides."—[3  Hansard, Ibid. s. 516 vivé voce 517 518 519
 MR. BRADY  hoped that the hon. Gentleman would accept the suggestion of the hon. Member for Finsbury.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, that as to the Epsom Common fields there were no public rights whatever, and this Bill could not harm the public.
 MR. GEORGE  supported the proposal that the measure should be referred to a Select Committee, together with the Bill introduced by his right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin. He would remind the House that the Commission which had inquired into that subject did not include either the Lord Chancellor or the Master of the Rolls in Ireland; and he could state that the Master of the Rolls disapproved of many of its provisions. He was surprised not to find in this Bill any reference to the Report of the Committee which had sat upon the same subject. Prom 1850 to the present time the Masters in Chancery had been acting, with what success was shown by a Return obtained last year, from which it appeared that since the 1st of January, 1851, when increased jurisdiction was given them under Sir John Romilly's Act, down
 522 523 vivá voce
 MR. LOCKE  asked the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary of the Home Department, to omit from the schedule "Epsom Common" and "Epsom Common fields," which were only about seventeen or eighteen miles from London, and therefore within the area to which the inquiry of the Committee now sitting extended.
 MR. MALINS  confessed, that after listening to the whole of the debate he had seldom found himself more embarrassed. He had thought they were all agreed that the system at work in Ireland was unsatisfactory, and that it required amendment; but he collected from his right hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Whiteside) that he was satisfied, and that the people of Ireland generally were satisfied, with the existing system, subject to some slight correction. If that were so, his hon. and learned Friend, instead of submitting Bills of his own on the subject, should have opposed the measure of the Government upon the second reading. The Government were under considerable disadvantage in legislating on this subject. The Attorney General in dealing with the question must have felt the disadvantage of never having observed the working of a single Irish Chancery suit, and during the debate he had been unsupported by any Members on his own side of the House who had had that advantage, with the single exception of the hon. and learned Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen). He had known a good deal of the Court of Chancery in England before the Bill of 1852. His right hon. Friend who preceded him, had correctly stated that the Bill was an enormous improvement. It had corrected a system which was a disgrace to a civilized country.
 527 viv£ voce viv£ voce
 MR. MALINS  said, he considered the Carey Street site to be the best that could be selected, and he earnestly hoped that the Government would not accede to the Motion. It was impossible to disguise from themselves that the result of that Motion, if adopted, would be to defeat the scheme altogether. A plan which had met the universal approbation of the profession of the law had at last been arrived at, and he therefore hoped it would meet with no serious opposition. Carey Street was the site universally approved of by the profession, from its being the centre of the legal world. It was surrounded on the north, south, east, and west by the chambers of the lawyers, and that which would be convenient to the lawyers would be so to their clients, who were the public at large. Should they sacrifice to architectural beauty the convenience of the public and all the other
 497
 MR. CRAWFORD  wished to point out
 500
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the main difference between the Bills before the House seemed to be this—that whereas one of them recommended the appointment of one Vice Chancellor, whose selection was to be left to the responsible Advisers of the Crown; the other Bill recommended the appointment of two Vice Chancellors, whose offices should he placed in the first instance at the option of certain judicial
 525 526
 MR. SCULLY  had heard four interesting speeches from four learned Gentlemen, and the details of the Bill appeared to him to be thoroughly threshed out. The real question left for the House was, whether or not the Bills should be referred to a
 524
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, having regard to sonic observations made by the right hon. Baronet in reply to a deputation which had waited on him yesterday with reference to the Bill for the amendment of the Public House Closing Act, he was prepared to state what course the Government intend to take with regard to the measure?
 MR. COX  said, that being the case, he would postpone tire second reading of the Bill to that day week.
 MR. COX  said, that unless the public had some right over these fields he could not understand why their owners should have thought it necessary to apply to the Inclosure Commissioners at all. He believed that the public had some rights over them, and therefore he thought that neither of these inclosures ought to be sanctioned until the Committee now sitting had made its Report. In order that the hon. Gentleman might have an opportunity of again addressing the House, he moved that the Bill should be read a second time that day week.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) in considering this a most interesting question, not only to the suitors
 520 521
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had had some experience of the Court of Chancery as counsel, and also unfortunately as a suitor, and it was in the latter capacity that he was able to speak of the functions performed by the Chief Clerk. The system of warrants was the great objection to the Masters' offices. The number of Masters should have been diminished, and they should have had a paper of cases as the Judges had. Instead of this the Masters were abolished. Cases now went technically before the Judge in Chambers, but practically before the Chief Clerk. The Masters used
 531 532
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, he did not know anything of the case until after he saw the notice of the hon. Gentleman on the paper. It appeared that this person was in a hotel, where he was found in an excited and frantic state. He was taken before a magistrate by the police, whose duly it was to do so. By order of the magistrate he was removed to the workhouse. The policeman who took him, in obedience to the orders of the magistrate, could not state in writing all the circumstances connected with the case, but he stated that he brought him there by order of the magistrate who had all the facts before him when he made the order. He (Sir George Grey) would communicate with the magistrate on the subject, with a view to the object of his hon. Friend.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, he had received two or three deputations with regard to the Bill from persons whose representations were entitled to consideration; and if it were possible, without infringing on the principle of the Bill, the Government would endeavour to exempt certain houses from the operation of the Bill during certain hours. At all events, he would consider what could be done in the matter.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I believe I express the opinion of the great mass of hon. Members present, as well as my own, when I say that I trust the Government will not accede to this Amendment. I have not the least doubt that it has been brought forward in an earnest desire on the part of my hon. Friend that every consideration should be given before so important a step is taken as the selection of a site for this great building. But the House must observe that to carry this Amendment will be equivalent to the defeat of this measure for the present Session: and in a future Session no one can venture to foretell what may happen. But even suppose at this period next year we may get to this stage, who is to say whether hon. Members may not get up and propose inquiring into a third site, different from Carey Street
 494 495 pro hac vice,
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that a remark had been made that no Irish Member who had served on the Commission had addressed the House in favour of the present Bill, and as he had the honour to be on the Commission he hoped the House would allow him to make a few observations upon it. The object of the Commission was to ascertain which was the better practice, that of Ireland or that of England, in this matter. The first thing which the Commission endeavoured to ascertain was the practice in the Court of Chancery in England and in Ireland, for the purpose of seeing which was the better. They also aimed at discovering the opinion of gentlemen in Ireland who were competent to speak upon the subject, and they therefore examined the Master of the Rolls, Master Litton, and Master Brooke. There were three great points upon which they were examined, the first as to the substitution of compendious printed forms for the old written pleas, the second as to the mode of taking evidence, and the third as to whether the Masters' jurisdiction should be retained or abolished. On the question of written pleadings, the Master of the Rolls said that the English practice was by far the best, that he thought that the English practice of taking evidence ought to be adopted in Ireland, and that the English practice as to Masters was the best. Mr. Litton said that he thought that the system of procedure adopted in England was nearly perfect; and Mr. Brooke said that the most valuable of all reforms would be the adoption of the English practice in the Courts of Chancery in Ireland. Not a single witness before the Commission gave evidence on the other side. On that Commission there were several persons acquainted by experience with the practice in England and in Ireland, and they were unanimous that the practice in England should be introduced into Ireland. The hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Scully) said that the fault he found with the Commission was, that they had neglected to inquire into the question of reducing the costs to suitors—the only question they were appointed to deal with. Now, what the Commission were instructed to inquire into was the differences between the constitution, forms, practice, procedure, and fees of the courts in England and Ireland, with a view to reduce the costs to suitors, and the expenditure of public money on the establishment charges. These were two distinct
 529 530
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  pointed out that there was a great distinction between commons and common fields.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the report of an inquest held at the Strand Union on the body of Mr. George Drake, from which report it appears that this gentleman, in an apoplectic condition, was taken there by the police, supposed by them to be of unsound mind from drink, and left without any information by what means he came into their hands, and whether he will cause a Communication to be forwarded to the police authorities requiring that, in future, when any sick person, incapable of giving any explanation of his or her condition, be taken to a Union Infirmary, all the facts bearing on the case which the police can furnish should be forwarded in writing with
 488
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY,  in seconding the Amendment, said, he was well aware that in the course proposed by the hon. Member for Worcestershire they were opposing the opinion of the lawyers; but the question really was whether when they were going to spend a large sum of money in the erection of a Palace of Justice they should not select the best available site for the purpose. The site afforded by the Thames Embankment was not in existence and could not be taken into consideration when the Bill was originally before the Committee. If there was room enough on the Thames Embankment nothing could be
 493
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  expressed a hope that care would be taken to acquire sufficient land to insure proper access to the new courts, and that there would not be the same necessity as had arisen in the case of the new Foreign Office of purchasing additional land to provide proper approaches. It was bad policy, first, by the outlay of public money to increase fourfold the value of surrounding property, and then to purchase at that enhanced value.
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, the arrangement to which the hon. Gentleman referred was in operation since 1861 with regard to Sorters, Letter Carriers, and Stampers, who were in the service at the time; and what had been done recently was to make that arrangement permanent, and applicable to all Stampers and Letter Carriers, whether in the service then or now. This arrangement, however, applied only to London. With regard to Dublin and Edinburgh, the corresponding establishments there were revised so recently as last year. Those rates of payment were, however, not the same as the rates in London, but they were sufficient to secure the services of good men.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, since the noble Lord has thought that this was a case on which to found a question, I am glad for the sake of the gentleman concerned that the question has been put; and, in replying to it, I hope the House will excuse me if I make a statement somewhat longer than is usually made in answer to questions. The noble Lord's question misstates more facts than one, but it conveys a most serious imputation on the gentleman named, and of course, by implication, upon those who made the appointment. I say in the outset that the Government are responsible for the appointment, the Lord Chancellor having made it after consultation with, and with the approval of his Colleagues. With respect to the facts of the case, I may say that I believe this gentleman is one who has been as hardly used as anyone whose
 564 565 566 "He did not accept the decision of the Committee as decisive of Mr. Stonor's guilt. After looking at the evidence laid before the Committee, and considering the divisions in the Committee, he must say that it was extremely doubtful whether or not Mr. Stonor was guilty of bribery." "The decision of the Committee was to be held as conclusive with regard to the objects for which they were appointed; but not with regard to personal character." "Without entering into particulars, I think I may fairly say that there was some misconception with regard to the imputations which were made against Mr. Stonor; at least, I was convinced when I was Secretary for the Colonies that if a vacancy should occur in any office which Mr. Stonor was competent to fill, no imputation rested upon his character, and I should be prepared to recommend him to the Crown for public employment. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Colonies is aware of the circumstances, to which I have alluded; and I wish to ask him whether, in his opinion, there is any circumstance affecting the character of Mr. Stonor which would disqualify him for appointment to a public office."—[3  Hansard, "I said that I had looked into the circumstances of the case; that the impression upon my mind was that they formed no permanent disqualification to his employment in the colonial service, and that I should have no difficulty in recommending him to the Crown for any office in this country for which he might be competent."—[3  Hansard, 567
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I, of course, Sir, meant that the errors made by the noble Lord were accidental errors. He said that the appointment was cancelled in consequence of the Report of a Committee. That is a mistake. The other statement made by the noble Lord was that Mr. Stonor had been found guilty of corruption. That is also, I think, a mistake, because the Election Committee had no authority to try Mr. Stonor.
 MR. E. F. LEVESON GOWER  said, he was induced to offer one or two observations because of the strong opinion which he had always entertained upon this question. The hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) and those hon. Members who had advocated this inquiry had laid great stress upon its harmless character, and no argument could possibly be more plausible. It was said that the truth was all they desired to elicit, and that by granting the inquiry no pledge of any kind was given; but he maintained that such an inquiry would raise expectations which could not but have an injurious effect. There could be no doubt that this inquiry pointed to tenant-right; and, inasmuch as be strongly believed that the agitation of the question would not only not be beneficial but would be positively injurious to the best
 597
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, the difficulty which he felt in addressing the House was, that up to the present time the debate was almost entirely one-sided. There was hardly a speaker that did not seem to coincide in the views expressed by his hon. Friend the Member for Dungarvan, and to consider the demand now made by his Motion as just, reasonable, and moderate. He (the O'Conor Don) confessed he felt himself almost unable to afford any further information to the House. Before, however, the Government expressed their views upon the subject, he felt himself bound, as an Irish landlord, to declare that he concurred in the views expressed by his hon. Friend, and thought it was most desirable that Parliament should come to some arrangement of this important question. Now, he had listened attentively to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Wexford (Mr. M'Mahon), without being able to understand what course that hon. and learned Gentleman desired should be adopted. The hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to find fault with all those who had taken an active part in the discussions upon this subject, because in his opinion they had not gone far enough. Now, so far as he had considered the question, he (the O'Conor Don) believed that it would have been
 607 608
 MR. DUNNE  said, he should support the Motion, and that he could not agree with those who declared that "tennnt's-right was landlord's wrong," as the interests of both ought to be identical. He appeared in the double capacity of landlord and tenant and could declare that the state of both classes was unsatisfactory. What injured the one must injure the other. He believed that much mischief was caused in Ireland by land jobbers, and mentioned an instance in which one of that class had agreed to give an additional sum upon the purchase of an estate, on condition of the owner evicting the tenants. The owner took his measures in a very insidious manner, and obtained the services of the sheriff with a posse of police, who turned out the tenants and pulled down their houses. Fortunately the tenants obtained legal assistance, and one of them asserted his rights in a court of law, where the jury found that the landlord had acted fraudulently and unjustly. He had to pay heavy damages, and to compromise all the other actions by the payment of large sums. There was an inherent love of justice in Irishmen, and if they had confidence in the law, they would be content to appeal to it. All they wanted was fair play. He would conclude by paraphrasing a sentence from the writings of a late Roman Catholic prelate, by expressing a hope that the love of justice in Irish breasts would be as lasting as their hatred of tithes and the temporalities of the Church of England as established in Ireland.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he was sur-
 611 612
 LORD NAAS  said, the opinion of the hon. Gentleman who had just down was not the opinion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who had ex-
 627
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that a special Report by the Commissioners used to be necessary with respect to inclosures within fifteen miles of the metropolis; but by a more recent Act no inclosure could take place within that distance without the assent of Parliament. A special Report was also made in such cases.
 MR. LYGON , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the Episcopal Superintendence of certain Educational and Charitable Institutions, said, that within the last few years many of these educational and charitable institutions had been founded in various parishes in England with the consent of the incumbents of those parishes. It was quite possible, however, that in the course of time, with the appointment of other incumbents, there might be some
 629
 MR. WILBRAHAM EGERTON  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he is prepared to introduce Clauses in the Union Chargeability Bill to give powers to guardians to reconstruct Unions; and whether he will fix a later day after Easter for going into Committee?
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If the Board of Admiralty have any intention to sanction or support any fresh attempt to reach the North Pole by Spitzbergen or any other route, or recommend any grant of Public Money for that purpose?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the Admiralty, and, as far as he was aware, the Government, had had no proposal made to them of the nature to which his hon. Friend had alluded, and he could not, therefore, state what course the Government would pursue if so grave a proposal were made.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that a Committee had been appointed to consider the question, and they reported the evidence which came before them. The volumes, however, were too bulky to be produced in the ordinary way. He, however, proposed to lay a few copies on the table of the Library. If the right hon. Baronet should move that the evidence be printed and laid upon the table of the House he should have no objection.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : I would ask one more question with reference to this appointment—namely, whether, in the opinion of the hon. and learned Attorney General, it is quite impossible to have found a single honest lawyer to fill it?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether the Mr. H. J. Stonor who has lately been appointed by the Lord Chancellor as Judge of a County Court is the person whose appointment as Judge in Australia was cancelled, in accordance with the Report of the Committee moved for by the present Chancellor of the Exchequer, and on the ground that Mr. Stonor had been found guilty of corruption?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, I am desirous of appealing to you upon the fact that the Attorney General, in rising to reply to my inquiry, said that my Question contained more misstatements than one. Now, I appeal to you, Sir, whether one Member is to be allowed to make a statement of that character without another Member personally referred to being allowed the opportunity of a reply?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that if necessary he would move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE , in rising to put the question of which he had given notice,
 569 Hansard, Journal des Débats,
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that it was not his intention to introduce any clauses into the Bill giving power to the guardians to reconstruct Unions. It would not be fair to confer this power upon guardians alone. Whenever a question arose as to severing parishes from different unions, it excited generally great differences of opinion amongst the guardians. There was a power given by the 6 & 7  Vict.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that a great deal of correspondence had taken place between the Poor Law Board and the guardians of the poor throughout the country on the subject referred to by the hon. Baronet (Sir John Shelley), and he did not despair of inducing the guardians generally to adopt the recommendation of the Select Committee. Difficulties existed through the contracts entered into with the medical officers, some of those contracts being made with the medical officers for life, and there had therefore been an unwillingness to disturb them. In other instances the contracts were annual, and in those latter cases the Poor Law Board would insist on the adoption of the Committee's recommendations.
 COLONEL VANDELEUR  said, he thought that the Government ought to grant the Inquiry asked for by the hon. Member for Dungarvan, though he did not concur in all that had been said by previous speakers as to the causes of the present condition of Ireland. A great deal had been said about tenant-right, but he had known times in Ireland after the famine of 1847 when tenant-right was worth nothing, when
 609 610
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that he looked upon this as a landlord's quite as much as a tenant's question. He believed that security for property would be very much increased if tenant-right were settled upon an equitable basis. The noble Lord at the head of the Government told the House a few nights ago that "tenant's-right meant landlord's wrong." It was very easy to make an off-hand assertion of that kind, but a great question could not be disposed of in that mariner. Land in Ireland would become infinitely more productive if this question were settled on an equitable and satisfactory basis. What was tenant-right? Judge Longfield, in a pamphlet which he had published, said that some thought tenant's right meant fixity of tenure, others thought it meant compulsory valuation of land, while others held that tenant-right simply meant compensation for improvements made with the tacit assent of the landowner, and constituting a permanent addition to the value of the land. It was quite clear that if by fixity of tenure it was understood that the tenant was to hold his land against the will of the landlord such a measure could never be
 599 600 "Sir W. Grant, no mean judge of equity and justice; by Lord Eldon, no weak Conservative; by Lord Redesdale, and by the universal consent of all writers and expositors of equity and natural justice." 601 602
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he had to complain that the lands proposed to be inclosed were not clearly stated in the schedule. No one reading this Bill could know
 628
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he should feel himself compelled to divide the House upon the schedule, unless the right hon. Gentleman gave him some assurance that the engagement which had been made with him should be kept. He wished to know if the necessary information should be given to the House for the future.
 MR. WHITESIDE : It is of great consequence that the House should know exactly what is proposed. I have my own opinion on the subject, and I have only to say this—those who think the very awful facts which the hon. Member for Dungarvan truly described as existing in the South and West of Ireland are to be obviated by an Act of Parliament are labouring under a delusion. The hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Scully) who understands the question, spoke of the Act of 1860 in the singular number, and now let the House exactly understand what is to be done. The Act, which might be regarded as a consolidation of the law of landlord and tenant, was prepared by the late Lord Chancellor of Ireland (Mr. Napier), aided by one or two other Gentlemen who understood the subject. They failed in carrying that measure, but it was afterwards carried by the practical good sense of the then Attorney General, Mr. Deasy. That Act was the result of years of inquiry in the time of Sir Robert Peel—the Devon Commission; in which 120,000 questions were asked. Every Act of Parliament passed on the law of landlord and tenant from the time when the Saxons first landed in Ireland down to the date of that Act was repealed, and the whole law was put into one Act. There was substantially no difference between the law of landlord and tenant in England and Ireland. The hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Forster) would not establish a set of laws for one part of the country and another for another, and he was equally
 625 Vict.
 MR. BRADY  said, he believed that the people of England were sensitively alive to everything affecting the welfare of Ireland. Indeed statesmen of all parties had been obliged to admit its suffering condition. There had been no material change in the regulations between landlord and tenant from the time of Burke to the time of the noble Lord. Yet the rental of the land had risen from £6,000,000 in 1780, to £13,000,000 a year at present. In the year 1780 the acreage of Ireland was estimated at £12,000,000 by Mr. Arthur Young, and its value at 6 s. d. s. d.; 603
 MR. BRADY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department a question respecting the reported mortality of children at Emneth, but before doing so he would read the fellowing article from the  Lynn Advertiser "After the inquest was over the coroner directed the attention of the jury to the extraordinary mortality amongst children at Emneth. He was informed by the parish surgeon that it was something like 80 per cent of the population, which the surgeon attributed to gross and culpable neglect, the children dying from starvation. Fine, healthy children were seen daily to shrink, wither, and die without any disease, and simply because their inhuman mothers would not give them any nourishment. One woman, the coroner was informed, had had three illegitimate children, all of whom were strong and healthy, but died within six months of their birth. Unfortunately it was a matter of which he (the coroner) could not take any other notice than communicate with the Home Secretary, for unless he (the coroner) was set in motion by a magistrate, minister, or guardian of the parish, he held no inquest; but he wished it to be expressly understood that if, after this notice, a similar case came to his knowledge, he should order the body to be exhumed, and if the medical evidence was clear that the child died from starvation, he (the coroner) should know how to act. It should be known that the law was strong and powerful enough to punish the offender, whether her victim died by poison, violence, or starvation; and, depend upon it, if a conviction followed, the Judges of the land would make a severe example. The crime to which he alluded was on the increase, and must be put down by the strong arm of the law, and he should feel it to be his duty to lay the matter before Sir George Grey, who would probably send down a Commissioner to inquire into the matter. In the meantime he hoped the public press would take up the matter and that the police would be on the alert." Lynn Advertiser
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that the inclosure referred to by the hon. and learned Member (Mr. Peacocke) had been the subject of full and careful inquiry by the Inclosure Commissioners, and no injury would be sustained by the public in the inclosure.
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord is in possession of the House, and if the hon. Member has been misunderstood he will have the power of explanation after the noble Lord.
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated that the noble Lord was not in order.
 MR. MAGUIRE  craved the indulgence of the House while he brought before it a question of very great and grave importance, not only to the people of Ireland, who were immediately interested in the solution of the question, but also to the people of England, who were directly as well as indirectly interested in the prosperity of Ireland. The question was not one of sentiment or feeling. To those whom he represented it was, without exaggeration, a matter of life or death. The demand he had to make was one to which Parliament ought to accede. There was no Member who represented a popular constituency in Ireland, no representative of any of the three southern provinces, who would not say that the state of things in that country was most unsatisfactory, and that it was the duty of Parliament to
 571 572 573 574 575 576 577 "It is Switzerland that must be seen, to judge of the happiness of peasant proprietors. Switzerland has only to be known, to convince us that agriculture, practised by those who enjoy the fruits of it, suffices to procure great comfort to a very numerous population, great independence of character, the fruit of an independent situation, and great exchange of what is consumed; the consequence of the well-being of all the inhabitants, even in a country where the climate is rude, the soil but moderately fertile, and where late frosts and uncertain seasons often destroy the hopes of the labourer." Social Condition of Europe, "It would astonish the English people to see how intensely the peasants of France, Germany, Switzerland, and Holland labour in their fields. The whole of the farmer's family assists. It is not unwilling drudgery, but a toil in which they feel pleasure; for they know the harder they labour the greater will be their profits, and the better means of subsistence. There is always something to be done. When they can work in the fields they are opening drains, breaking up lumps of earth, spreading manure, digging, cleaning, weeding, sowing, or gathering. When they cannot work in the fields they are putting the farm-yards and farm-buildings into order, whitewashing, repairing walls, mixing or preparing manures, or doing something in preparation for their out-door occupations. They do all this, be it remembered, for themselves, and they take real pleasure in the work, and do it ten times better and more expeditiously than the poor, hired, ignorant peasants who have nothing to look forward to but to remain peasants for ever." 578 "Give a man the secure possession of a bleak rock, and he will convert it into a garden, give him a nine year's lease, and he will convert a garden into a desert." 579 "In this want of security is to be found the secret of the tenant's unwillingness to improve, and of the imperfect cultivation and consequent impoverishment of the country. As an illustration I will cite one case, with which, from personal knowledge, I am thoroughly acquainted. A farmer holds about one hundred and twenty acres of land on which there are thirty acres of reclaimable waste. I said to him, 'Why, with your large family of children and servants, do you not try to make that ground more productive? His reply was immediate and clear, 'I would this day begin the work if I were sure that the fruits of my labour and of the sweat of my children were to be my own. At present I am paying for that waste about five shillings an acre; it is worth to me about seven and sixpence; thus I have by it two and sixpence a year. If I improve that land, as I may do, so as to raise its producing value to twenty-two shillings and sixpence an acre, what can I expect to gain by it more than I do now, when the landlord will be sure to step in and raise the rent to a pound, thus leaving me only the present profit of two and sixpence. I have no notion of making property for the landlord by the sweat of my children.'" 580 581 582 "In England the right was secured not only by law, but by the custom of the country, which was equivalent to law, and compensation was awarded for improvements, made not only without the consent of the landlord, but it made, without asking his leave for a single one of them. "That custom, which had the force of law in England, applied to various improvements and outlay of a very limited duration… "In a great part of the south of England, where there were largo quantities of copse-wood and faggot-wood, nothing was more common than to drain with that faggot-wood. The tenant, even the tenant at will, never asked the opinion of his landlord whether he should drain a particular field—he drained it. The work might last twelve, fifteen, or twenty years, and it may not be permanent though durable. And yet without asking leave of the landlord, being a tenant at will, on being ejected by his landlord, would summon him for compensation, and the custom of the country would compel him to pay the tenant. But that was neither the law nor the custom in Ireland, and he asked their lordships to apply that by law in Ireland which by custom had the force of law in England." 583 "I wish to impose not an extraordinary, but a medium rent, in order that the good years may answer for the bad; and I wish my tenants to have leases, that they may be encouraged to improve their holdings and to enjoy their improvements, because I do not wish to deprive them of them or to benefit by them." 584 585
 MR. MAGUIRE said : I rise to order. [ Cries of and
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that he wished, before saying how he received the proposal of the noble Lord, first of all to offer an explanation as to two statements made by the noble Lord. The noble Viscount had misconceived his meaning when he said that he would refer the question of rent to any tribunal. He had never said or supposed anything of the kind. Nor did he insist on leases of thirty-one years as satisfying every requirement of the tenant. He had expressed no opinion whatever on the point; all he asked was for some system that would encourage landlords to give leases, of whatever duration. As to the proposal made by the noble Lord, he in all frankness accepted it—that the Acts of 1860 should be referred to a Select Committee, with the intention to see why they had failed to work, and how they could be improved for the advantage of both landlord and tenant.
 MR. C. MOORE  said, that he desired to see greater security given to the tenant for his outlay. The hon. Member who had just sat down said that the insecurity of
 598
 MR. ROEBUCK : I think that the silence of the Government is somewhat pusillanimous. They are placed in the position they occupy to govern the country, and a very important part of the country is Ireland. One of the most
 614 615 616
 MR. ROEBUCK : I beg pardon; that was not my meaning at all.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought the hon. Member for Dungarvan had rendered an essential service to the tenantry of Ireland; because, whether his Motion for a Committee was adopted or not, he had shown what was the effect of asking for the smallest possible modicum of redress from a moribund Parliament, which had twice refused to express its regret for the decline in the population of Ireland, which had passed the Act of 1860, and from a Committee of which, however composed, but little good for Ireland could be expected. The Motion would also show how little good had been done by lowering the de-
 604 605
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he understood
 626
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the question of Agricultural Statistics had been under consideration, but it had not appeared to the Government necessary or expedient to introduce any Bill on the subject. A plan, however, had been suggested which appeared to afford a fair chance of success, by which the acreage under cultivation of different crops might be ascertained by voluntary Returns and other means; and if the preliminary arrangements should be concluded in sufficient time, the Government would be prepared to propose a Vote in the present Session to defray the necessary expenditure.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Is the "Circular Memorandum" of the 22nd of March,
 561
 MR. SCULLY  said, he was very glad
 624 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Act of 1860, and whether that Act could be amended in any and what respect."
 MR. SCULLY  said, it was not for him to settle the form of the Motion. That duty lay between the noble Viscount and the hon. Member for Dungarvan.
 MR. COX  said, it might be considered out of place for a metropolitan Member to offer any suggestions upon this subject, but his apology must be that he was a member of the Irish Society. What was tenant-right, and whence sprang that right? It appeared to him to have originated in the insecurity of a tenant holding land, the possession of which he was obliged to find the means of defending. It originated nearly 250 years ago, in the charter of James I., which he granted to the citizens of London, when he founded the new plantation in Ulster. The citizens of London guaranteed to their tenants, the old
 613
 MR. FERRAND  said, he also wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman when he proposed to go into Committee on the Union Chargeability Bill?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER , in seconding the Motion, said, he was well aware the House might feel that the subject was one upon which he had no right to address them. In the first place his hon. Friend, who, from his intense sympathy for his countrymen, his knowledge, position, and experience, was so well qualified to bring it before them, had almost exhausted it. But besides that the question was an Irish and a legal one, and he (Mr. W. E.
 586 587 "This is the foundation of all legislation on this subject—that the law and practice as they exist in England and Scotland have differed from the law and practice as they have existed in Ireland." 588 589 590 591 592 593
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, there could be no doubt that the Act passed by Mr. Cardwell was the Act under discussion; but on reference to the debates of 1860 it would be found that two Acts were brought forward together, and considered together, and it would be exceedingly difficult for the Committee fairly to consider the first Act without having the second also under their consideration.
 MR. MONSELL : At any rate it was the meaning of the hon. Member for Bodmin; but the real fact was, that he was tilting against a shadow. The hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) was perfectly distinct and precise in the demand he made. What he said was this—that a Bill was passed by this House five years ago, on the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell), and he wished for a Committee to inquire whether that Bill had worked well or not; and, if not, that we should endeavour to amend it, so that it might produce the results which the right hon. Gentleman said, when he proposed the measure, he expected from it. Extravagant views of tenant-right, such as prevailed some years ago, had passed away like the Communistic views of Louis Blanc and the men of his school. What his hon. Friend said was, that he desired to have leases in Ireland, and wanted to arrive at some system which would make it the interest of the landlord to give leases. Take the case of Scotland. Lord Campbell said it was naturally a barren moor, but long leases had made it one of the happiest and richest countries in the world. The object he and his hon. Friend had was to devise some means by which the same system could be introduced into Ireland with a like result. Well, then, who was there in that House, who could, with consistency, oppose this moderate demand for inquiry? The hon. and gallant Member for Longford (Colonel Greville) had already quoted a remarkable speech made by the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston), who, unless he went back from the opinions he then expressed, could not oppose the Motion. His right hon. Friend the former Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Napier) had said that he would
 "Leave to the tenant possession of the farm, when improvements had been made, till such a reasonable period had expired as might be considered a compensating period for those improvements," 618 "It seems to me a not unreasonable custom that a tenant who is bound to keep his farm in a good and tenantable manner, according to the rules of good husbandry, should be at liberty to charge the landlord with a part of the expense of draining although that draining may have been done without the landlord's knowledge or consent." quieta non movere
 MR. MONSELL , who was received with loud cries of "Palmerston," said, that if the noble Viscount had shown the least symptom of rising, he (Mr. Monsell) would
 617
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, having the honour of holding the position of Governor of the Irish Society, he ventured to offer a few remarks upon the subject before the House. In a recent debate they had heard an appalling description of the present state of Ireland from the hon. Member for the King's County. While differing from that hon. Gentleman as to the causes of those evils, he nevertheless thought it furnished a matter for the grave consideration of this country and the Government, It appeared to him that no Government could see the gradual diminution of the people, and the falling off in the agricultural produce of Ireland, without the most serious apprehensions of the ultimate results. The good Government of Ireland was, in his opinion, one of the most serious problems that could be solved; and he, for one, wa3 therefore prepared to support the Motion for inquiry upon this subject. The society with which he was connected was in the habit of granting long leases and premiums for substantial improvements. Now, what was called tenant-right appeared to him to be something so indefinite, so shadowy, unreal, and unsubstantial that he found it almost impossible to deal with it. He could not conceive a more inconvenient state of things than that a man holding, perhaps, as a tenant-at-will should erect a building which his landlord did not want, to which, indeed, he might
 606
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that he had not seen the report in question; but he had received, the day before yesterday, a letter from the coroner, stating his belief that there had been great mortality amongst children in the parish of Emneth,
 563
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that a note should be added to the schedule in the case of property within a reasonable distance of London. In this instance the understanding made with the hon. Gentleman had been carried out by the omission from the schedule of the inclosure of a part of Epsom Common.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, if the inquiry were to be made into the Act of 1860 that would fully meet the original Motion of the hon. Member for Dungarvan, because the Act of 1860 was the code which constituted the law relating to landlord and tenant in Ireland. It would be idle to take objection to the original Motion in order to substitute that which would be exactly the same thing expressed in other words. He did not think there was any doubt as to what the noble Lord meant, as he was most clear, as he invariably was, in his expressions. The noble Viscount said if the Act which passed in 1860, regulating the mode by which agricultural lands might be let, had proved a failure, that would be a fair subject of inquiry. He (the noble Viscount) said the hon. Member (Mr. Maguire) might have an inquiry into the causes which led to the failure of the working of that Act, and that wa3 what the House distinctly understood should be the form of the inquiry. If the inquiry were to be in any other form than that, let them have the original form proposed by the hon. Member for Dungarvan.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is the intention of Government to give effect to the Resolution of the House in favour of the collection of the Agricultural Statistics of Great Britain?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Ad-
 568
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether the Poor Law Board intend in this Session to take any, and, if any, what steps to carry out the recommendation of the Select Committee on Poor Relief, that in future, cod liver oil, quinine and other expensive medicines shall be provided at the expense of the guardians, and not, as heretofore, by the parochial medical officers?
 LORD COURTENAY  said, it was not his intention to detain the House for more than a few minutes. He felt that it I might appear like presumption in one who had had the honour of a seat in the House for so short a time to rise to address the House on a subject of such importance and such difficulty. It had, moreover, on many occasions been discussed in that House and out of doors by gentlemen to whose expressed opinions it would be difficult for any one, and impossible for him, to add anything new in the way of argument. Nevertheless, be would ask permission very briefly to express the reasons which induced him to support the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, if it were pressed to a division. The hon. Gentleman had brought this subject forward with much ability, and, on the whole, with moderation of tone. He did not agree with the hon. Gentleman on very many of his political views, nor probably should he be able to concur with him in all his opinions on this subject; but at the same time it
 594 595 596
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, with regard to the first part of the question of the hon. Gentleman, I may say that I have every day so many things to read, and so much to write, and so many persons to see, that I am unable to follow up, as other persons may do, what passes in foreign assemblies, or what appears in foreign papers, and therefore my attention was not called to the speech to which the hon. Gentleman refers till this afternoon, when, driving down to the House, I had the opportunity of reading an extract of what was alleged to have been said by the Cardinal de Bonnechose. I may say, in passing, that I am sorry to see that that rev. prelate described England as the natural enemy of France. One may be excused for thinking that he is not a proper judge in these matters. I have not seen the article in the  Journal des Débats. 570
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, there cannot be a subject of discussion more deeply interesting to this great assembly than one which is connected with the welfare of Ireland, because no man can deny that Ireland is a most important part of the United Kingdom, that the prosperity of Ireland must be an essential ingredient in the prosperity of the rest of the Empire, and that anything which shakes or mars it must materially affect the interests and well-being of the whole nation. But in discussing this question it is most important that our attention should be fixed upon leading and fundamental principles, that we should not be carried away by superficial notions, and that we should not attribute great effects to insufficient causes. Now, there was much in the speech of the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) in which it is impossible for me to concur. It has been said by hon. Gentlemen who
 619
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : No one would regret more than I should having misunderstood or unintentionally misrepresented what the hon. Gentleman has said, and I accept with pleasure his disclaimer
 620 621 622 623
 MR. PEEL,  in reply, said, the want of uniformity in the pay of Out-door Officers of Customs appeared to have arisen from the circumstance that up to 1856 those Officers were paid not by salaries, but by rates of daily pay, which, varied according to the nature of the duties they were employed in; but in 1856 the daily pay was reduced to a uniform sum of Is, a day, and the difference was commuted to a fixed salary, or wages, the amount of salary being fixed with reference to their average earnings during the three preceding years.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that there would be no objection to produce the Returns. Up to the present time very few gardens had been cultivated by soldiers. A circular had lately been issued from the War Office giving greater facilities for the cultivation of gardens, and since the issue of that Circular many applications had been made. The weather had not lately been very favourable for garden operations, and he should be much obliged if the hon. Member would wait a month or two before he moved for the Return.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that in fixing the pay of Sergeant Instructors of Volunteers a sum was included to cover the expenses they were put to for lodging and clothing themselves. The pay of these Sergeant Instructors was 6 d. d. d.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that upon the representations made by the deputation introduced to Lord de Grey by his hon. Friend opposite, Lord de Grey made inquiries as to the facts relating to the exemption from serving on juries allowed in favour of militia officers. It appeared that they were not exempted from
 672
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it was rather unusual and very inconvenient that information of that kind should be asked for during the progress of these experiments. The experiments which had been ordered between the competitive systems of rifling were now going on, and not likely to be concluded for a short time yet. As a matter of fact, he believed the competition guns had not yet had shells filled with powder fired from them, and he could not say yet whether it was intended to test them in that way or not. As to the shunt and French guns, they had both been fired on wooden carriages; the shunt gun had been fired from an iron platform, but the French gun had not been placed on that
 673
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he should not have arisen but to reply to what had been said with reference to Captain Clarke, the officer who was appointed to conduct the Admiralty engineering works. If the Admiralty had asked any officer in the service whom he would recommend for the appointment, all the elder officers of the corps of Royal Engineers would have recommended that officer, who was one of the most able and intelligent in that branch of the service. The hon. Member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Robertson) had stated that the field of selection was a very narrow one; but when made out of hundreds it could not be very fairly considered narrow. He thought, in fact, that the Board of Admiralty, in making that appointment, had done honour to themselves. It had been stated, as a blot in the system, that the captain superintendents were not mechanics nor acquainted with engineering. But had any one ever known an inefficient captain superintendent? He could not understand why it was thought necessary by some hon. Members that the captain superintendent should be acquainted with the details of every branch in the several departments under his control. The hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) had stated that the master shipwrights, the engineers, the master ropemakers, and other heads of the respective branches, were all efficient. Well, it was a fact that none of them were inefficient. But was any one of them more qualified than the superintendent to conduct any other branch than his own? What was wanted at the head of the yard was a man of judgment, a man of experience in the naval profession, a man of industry, a man of temper. He had to deal with a variety of circumstances. Place a civilian, however well acquainted with mechanics and engineering or shipbuilding works at the head of the dockyard, and he came into conflict almost immediately with the officer of a ship coming in for repairs. Who was to judge of the necessity of repairs? A report was first sent in to the superintendent of the yard; and then the vessel was visited by the head of each branch, the foreman of shipwrights, the carpenter, the engineer, the caulker, the ropemaker, and others—all of whom made reports to an admiral or captain of the navy, one who knew every part of a ship, and then the necessary repairs were ordered on
 710 711 712
 MR. PEEL  said, he thought that the course suggested by the hon. Gentleman's Motion was objectionable, because it would have the effect of taking the conduct of the business of the House very much out of the hands of the Government, as they would be unable to bring forward the Estimates when they wished, and because it would indefinitely extend the time during which the expenditure for the Civil Service would be going on without proper authority from Parliament. With respect to the Report of the Select Committee, if it was intended that they should only call attention to the variations in the Estimates from year to year, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that as the Estimates were now prepared those variations were shown; and if it was intended to do more and to give the reasons for or against such variations, then the Committee would undertake a task which it would be impossible to finish by the time when it would be absolutely necessary the Estimates should be submitted to Parliament. Why should a different course be adopted with reference to the Civil Service Estimates and the Army and Navy Estimates? The Civil Service Estimates were not increasing—on the contrary, their tendency was to decrease. He did not see any reason for a preliminary examination of the items of the Estimates, in addition to the examination which took place at the Treasury. They were now prepared in such a manner as to show the sums taken in the former year, so that the House was enabled to see at a glance whether the items had increased or diminished. As the proposition of the hon. Gentleman, if carried out, would tend to diminish the responsibility of the Government, and to weaken the interest which many Members took in the discussion of the Estimates, he trusted that the Motion would not be adopted by the House.
 MR. HENLEY  said, this was one of the gravest questions that could come before the House, and the manner in which it had been met by the right hon. Gentleman did not lessen its importance; for what did he say?—that the members of this highly-organized and highly-paid police force would only carry out the law if the magistrates did something which the law did not authorize them to do. The papers showed that this question did not come upon the police by surprise, but formed a branch of a regularly codified system. The law had been altered two or three times since the Epsom case in 1850, and if the Home Secretary thought it was still defective, why had he not provided the necessary Amendment? The right hon. Gentleman spoke of the power as dangerous, and talked about "lashes." Language of that kind served very well to get up a cheer in the House, but he knew very well this was no case of lashes, but of whipping with a birch rod. These two things were as different as chalk and cheese. In 1850, in 1857, or in 1865 did Sir Richard Mayne dream of securing the attendance of a surgeon? He never dreamt of it. Was it out of mercy to the child that the whipping was withdrawn from the hands of the police constables. Such a thing never entered into his consideration. The real and only reason for the course adopted was that it was repugnant to the feelings of the highly-paid constable to discharge these functions, and the humane considerations were thrown in as corks to float the case. The paid constable could not soil his fingers, but he
 725 s. 726
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to impress upon the Government the expediency of concentrating the various Admiralty Offices in one locality, instead of having them divided, as at present, between Somerset House and Whitehall. He hoped they would state to what, if any, decision they had come.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he agreed with the hon. Baronet as to the great importance, for the better administration of naval affairs, that the whole of the Offices connected with the Admiralty should be under one roof; but the concentration suggested would be attended with considerable expense, and that the only reason he could give the Committee for not having carried out a scheme which he admitted would effect a great public convenience was the enormous outlay which had been incurred in consequence of the change in the construction of the navy within the last few years. He was, however, in a position to inform the Committee that the Director of Works had been instructed by the Duke of Somerset to prepare plans on the subject, and that those plans were nearly ripe for consideration. The question to be decided was whether the whole of the Admiralty Offices were to be concentrated at Somerset House, or whether those Offices now situated at Somerset House could not be provided for by means of additional buildings at Whitehall. During the present year he was afraid he could hold out no hope that that question would be practically solved, but he sincerely hoped he should be able next Session, if he should continue to hold his present office, to introduce a measure for
 727
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he wished to ask for an explanation with reference to the positions occupied by the temporary clerks at the Admiralty, in whose case promotion was very slow, while they received no increase of salary from year to year.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was formerly the system to subject the temporary clerks to two different examinations before they were permanently placed on the Establishment, while others obtained their appointments at once without that double ordeal. The Duke of Somerset had deemed it right to lay down a rule in accordance with which all now after one competitive examination entered the service as temporary clerks and then fell into the Establishment as vacancies occurred. There were a great many temporary clerks both at Whitehall and Somerset House, as owing to the pressure of business the staff had been increased, and he was not prepared at the present moment to say that the Admiralty were about to recommend to the Treasury any increase in the Establishment; but those who conducted themselves properly might in process of time hope to be placed upon it.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he understood that some of those clerks had filled their "temporary" position for as long a period as fourteen and even twenty years. He also drew attention to the fact, that whilst the cost of the Board of Admiralty was £9,700, that of the legal department of the Admiralty was £10,713.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that for the sum of £2,600 the solicitor of the Admiralty provided an office and clerks. It must be borne in mind that legal gentlemen would not abandon their private practice for the sake of government work unless they had a fair salary. As to the other item, all he could say was that legal expenses of the Department were increasing; there had been a good many contracts and much litigation arising out of them.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that one of the principal objects of appointing a Controller General of the Coastguard was that they might assemble the ships under
 728
 MR. AYRTON,  said, the customs duties of the country were very much reduced, and he wished to know why, if the Coastguard was kept as a revenue force, they were not reduced in a proportionate degree. He wished to know if there was any prospect of a reduction in the Vote. It was to a great extent part of the navy, and the cost should really be placed upon the Navy Estimates.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the sum of £688,648 was the total cost of the Coastguard, and was a reduction by £16,000 upon previous years. There was a yearly increase in the reserve. The difficulties in the way of assembling the Coastguard squadron for evolutions were that its assembly caused a considerable expense, and occasioned inconvenience to the volunteers. Although the ships had not the advantage of cruising in squadron, which he admitted was of great importance, they went into the Channel singly and practised and manœuvred.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that the Vote for the Royal Naval Reserve was exactly the same in amount as last year; the number was 16,000 men, and he wished to know whether there was any endeavour to increase the number.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the number of this force wa3 steadily but slowly increasing. No addition had been made to the Vote this year, because the Votes of last year and the year before had been in excess of the amount required.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask, what increase of number there was during the year, and what it was intended to raise the number to?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the increase in number was about 400 or 500 per annum. They might increase the number rapidly by lowering the qualifications, but they found it desirable to keep the force as select as possible.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, he wished to ask, how many of the 16,000 men of whom the force was stated to consist were in this country? He also desired to be informed as to the state of the Coast Volunteer force.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that on the 31st of January last the number of men belonging to the Royal Naval Reserve at home, and available at once, was
 729
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to know, whether the long voyage men received a certificate entitling them to their retaining fee in cases where the length of their voyage had prevented them from going through the prescribed drill.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : No certificate was granted unless the necessary twenty-eight day's drill had been gone through.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to ask, when the Admiralty were going to provide a suitable ship for exercising the Naval Reserve at Aberdeen? There were 1,000 first-rate seamen enrolled in that town, and they were compelled to go through their drill in an old frigate of the class "Jackass frigates." He recollected that vessel forty years ago, when she was called the  Conway. 730 Conway Winchester;
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the change of name in the  Conway
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the opposition he had offered last year to the removal of the School of Naval Architecture from Portsmouth to South Kensington had been fully justified by the results. It was then stated by the noble Lord that the removal was resolved on because there were already the requisite staff of professors at Kensington for the instruction of the students. It now turned out that, so far from that being the case, it had been found necessary to appoint a Director of Education for the Admiralty, at a salary altogether amounting to £1,200 per annum, and to bring officers from the different naval dockyards to lecture. Thus the Timber Inspector at Woolwich Dockyard; Mr. Reed, the Chief Constructor of the Navy; Mr. Murray, the Chief Instructor for Portsmouth; Mr. Rains, the Assistant Instructor for the Navy the surveyor at Lloyd's, and Mr. Murray, the engineer to the Board of Trade, were all taken to Kensington in rotation to lecture—the whole cost of the establishment being about £5,000 per annum, instead of the £2,500 it was estimated to cost. All this expensive and elaborate machinery was for the sole benefit of sixteen dockyard and four private students. The young men were brought from the different dockyards for six months in the year, for the purpose of going through a course of lectures occupying the greater portion of the day and a part of the evening, by which means these pupils were deprived of all
 731
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he had to complain that no models of modern ships, such as the  Warrior
 MR. AYRTON  said, he regretted that the noble Lord (Lord Clarence Paget) should have determined to establish the school of naval architecture at the extreme west end of London, at a distance from all the shipbuilding establishments which existed on both sides of the Thames. He regarded it as an extraordinary piece of official eccentricity. In all probability the present situation was chosen in order to accommodate the  protegés
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he had distinctly informed the House last year that the probable amount to be asked for the year would be £4,000. The hon. Member for Truro (Mr. Augustus Smith) appeared to regard this sum as extravagant, but a comparison with the expenses incurred by the French Government for a similar school at Paris would show that their expenditure was equal to ours. According to the report of Dr. Woolley and a captain of Engineers sent to Paris to inquire into the subject, the number of  elèves 732 agreed to.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he had last year opposed the introduction of machinery into the rope-making department of Her Majesty's Dockyards, believing that it would have the effect of throwing a great many men out of employment. It appeared that since then a great many deserving men, who from six to twenty years had been employed on those works, were thrown out of employment without any compensation, and many of the men with large families. He admitted that those men had no claim on the Admiralty in point of law, but surely on the ground of equity it was most unjust to dismiss honest industrious men, who had served the Government for eighteen or twenty years, on the plea that they were after all but temporarily employed. The only persons who had not been benefited from the increase of wages in our national establishments were the joiners. They were paid only 3 s. d.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, he hoped the hon. Baronet would not press the Motion to a division.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, it was too late then (ten minutes to twelve o'clock) to go through the Vote that night.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he would not press the Vote. He proposed, however, to proceed with the remaining Votes in the Navy Estimates on Friday next, and to defer Vote 11, for works connected with docks and basins, until after Easter.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he had no wish to oppose grants which might be necessary for the public service, but could not help drawing attention to an irregularity which might be drawn into a very evil precedent. He understood that the sums now asked for were intended for services for which the Estimates had not been laid on the table, or at least were not in the hands of Members. He did not say that the hon. Gentleman meant to take any advantage, or was not dealing towards them with perfect honour, but the House ought to be careful how it sanctioned a practice that might lead to dangerous consequences by voting public money for services of the details of which it had not yet been informed. He quite admitted that it might very often be necessary to vote sums on account before the time had arrived when the Estimates could be discussed in detail; but it ought never to be necessary to vote sums on account before the Estimates were in the hands of Members.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he hoped the Secretary of the Treasury would specify the services for which he asked that Vote. He wished to know in particular whether the salaries connected with the Mixed Commission at the Cape of Good Hope—which he believed to be a sinecure—were included in the Vote. If so, he should like to divide the House against those salaries, as he thought that that expenditure might be saved to the country.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he entirely concurred with the noble Lord (Lord Robert Cecil) as to the irregularities of that proceeding. Last year was the first case he recollected of these Votes on Account being taken before the Estimates were in the hands of Members; but this year the practice was carried to an unprecedented length. That was the first time they had been asked to vote instalments without knowing what were the total sums of which they formed a part. The Estimates seemed to be kept back in order to prevent hon. Members from informing themselves previously about what they were called upon to vote.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he believed that the course now pursued had been adopted for the last two or three years, and it appeared to him most expedient and likely to prove economical. It was designed to obviate the necessity of waiting for the Estimates before they could have a full discussion on every Vote. There were many details which might remain undecided, and which it was desirable that the Government should have time to consider.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Return presented on the 14th of March showed exactly in what manner the Vote now asked for was to be appropriated among the services; that Vote would not give authority to expend more for any particular service than the sum placed opposite to it in the Return. As to the Slave Trade Commission, the amount that would be allotted to it was only £3,000, whereas the total sum that would be required for that particular service was £10,000. If, therefore, the hon. Member (Mr. Torrens) desired to propose a reduction on that head he would have an ample margin left him for doing so. It was not always possible to produce the Estimates as early as could be wished, because if a single Vote, or even a single item, remained undecided it prevented the presentation of the whole class to which it belonged. For example, Class 5 had been ready for some time past, with the exception of one Vote, but that one Vote was received only yesterday, and it was necessary to keep back that entire class of the Estimates in consequence. He might observe that all the services for which provision was made by a Vote on account were established services, well known to the House for which it was accustomed to make provision year by year, and as to which there could be no doubt Parliament would grant the sums asked for.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he could not agree in the doctrine laid down by the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Peel). The House ought to be placed in possession at an early period of the Civil Service Estimates, as these were the only Estimates in which there was a chance of effecting any reasonable reduction, and he wanted to know why they were not placed in possession of all the details of the accounts before they were asked for a Vote. Any item that had not been agreed on when the Estimates generally were ready could be
 736
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, no inconvenience existed by the present arrangement, as any hon. Member could, if prepared, propose to strike out or reduce any items in this Vote of the accounts just as he could if the Estimates were before him. As to the remedy proposed by the hon. Gentleman, it would interfere with the classification of the Votes and be productive of great inconvenience. It was impossible to prepare the miscellaneous estimates for the commencement of the Session, as they did the Military and Naval Estimates, owing to their multifarious character. There was no desire on the part of the Government to withold those Estimates a moment longer than was absolutely necessary.
 MR. COX  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield had given notice for the omission of the Vote for the Belfast Theological Institution. If they passed now a Vote on account would they not be met hereafter by the answer that they had already voted a sum on account?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to point out that if this system were to be pursued they would lose their established right of controlling the expenditure of the country. It was the practice of the House to go through these Votes one by one. For the Civil Service Commission they were asked at once to vote on account three-fifths of their salaries. £10,000 out of £13,000 was asked for the National Gallery, and a similar item for Dr. Stevens's Hospital. It appeared to him that they were asked to vote a lump sum which included a number of separate items involving various important principles upon which great difference of opinion existed in that House. This plan was a most objectionable one, but if they were to reject this Motion he supposed they would bring the public service to a standstill, but there should be an unmistakable expression of opinion on the part of the House against the practice.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought
 737
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the system no doubt was to some extent inconvenient, but it could not be avoided. There was no alternative, except that of leaving the services unpaid during the period till the House settled the details, or of giving a Vote on account. There remained a sufficient sum when the Estimates were examined in detail to enable the House to express its opinion and object to a particular Vote if it thought that the service to which it referred should cease; and therefore the House was just as free when it came later in the Session to discuss the Estimates in detail to object as if there had been no Vote on account. The first and most important Estimates were those of the Army and Navy. They were not disposed of and probably would not be till after Easter; and what was to become of those miscellaneous services if nothing was voted on account in the meantime? The introduction of these Votes on account was a necessary consequence of a recommendation made by a Select Committee of the House.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought they were in a more complicated position than ever. The noble Lord said they would be perfectly free at a future time to discuss any detail of these Estimates; whereas he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that if they assented to-night to the Vote before the House they were committed to the principle of the Vote.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Member was perfectly at liberty to take objection now to any Vote in the instalment asked for; and at a future time it would be competent to object to the balance, but not to the whole amount of the Vote. If the Vote on account was adopted the House might discuss the principle of any Vote in future, but would scarcely be open to come to any practical Resolution on the subject. Whether this system of voting on account were good or bad, it was not the invention of the Government, or of any former Government, but the system recommended by an authoritative Committee on Public Accounts nominated by that House.
 MR. WHITE  said, he thought that any
 738
 MR. PEEL  said, the hon. Member for Sheffield had authorized him to state that he reserved his objection until the Vote was moved in the usual course.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it appeared to him that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had admitted the truth of his objection—namely, that if they sanctioned the Vote that night they were precluded from negativing at a future period the whole amount included in that Vote. He wished to know if the right hon. Gentleman sanctioned the practice of asking thirty or forty Members, at nearly one o'clock in the morning, to pledge the Whole House to the principle and details contained in this Vote on account?
 LORD ELCHO  said, that in Class 4 there were Votes for Science and Art, for the British Museum and National Gallery. The hon. Member for Galway had a notice on the paper for Friday to call attention to the British Museum, the National Gallery, and the Museum at South Kensington. It was possible that he might influence the views of hon. Members with respect to the Votes for those institutions. He should like to know whether these Votes on account for those establishments would effect such questions as to whether the British Museum should be broken up, or as to the removal of the Cartoons from Hampton to Kensington Museum?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the reply of the Secretary to the Treasury with respect to the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield was an answer to the question of the noble Lord. A Select Committee of the House had recommended that the balances on Votes should be paid over to the Exchequer at the end of each financial year, and that in order to pay the expenditure of departments at the beginning of the financial year, before the miscellaneous Votes could be discussed, Votes on account should be taken. The course proposed by the Government was, therefore, in exact conformity with the recommendation of that Committee. At the same time, it would be perfectly open to the House to discuss at a later period the principle of every one of the services for which a Vote on account was proposed to be taken on the present occasion. He had never heard any hon. Member whe-
 739
 MR. TORRENS  said, that no explanation having been given as to them, he moved that the Votes of £1,200 for the Commissioner of the Mixed Commission Courts, and £800 for the Arbitrator, be suspended until the Estimates be placed in the hands of the Members.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that without this Mixed Commission Court the slave trade would be revived in its original form, and we were bound to prevent this by existing treaties with Spain, Portugal, and the United States. While it was perfectly true that the duty of the Commissioner and the Arbitrator appeared very light, it was necessary that the Court of the Mixed Commission should be maintained as well as that of the Court of Admiralty. Other countries had similar courts, and they were necessary for the prevention of the slave trade. The Court of Admiralty could only confiscate the vessel, while the Court of the Mixed Commission could, in addition, punish the crew engaged in the slave trade.
 MR. TORRENS  said, the Mixed Commission did nothing but draw their salaries. The entire work was done by the Court of Admiralty.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask would that Amendment, if carried, preclude all discussion on prior items?
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, after this Motion was put from the Chair, no discussion could be raised as to any previous item.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, it was quite necessary to prevent this matter going further. The House had been told that these Votes on account were a mere form, but they now seemed very important in point of principle.
 MR. COX  said, he quite agreed that
 740
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the course which had been adopted had been deliberately recommended to the House in a Report of a Select Committee, which received the general approval of the House. That Report distinctly stated that—
 "Votes on account are only to be applied to the payment of services which have received the sanction of the House in former years." "We are of opinion that this difficulty (the lateness of the Civil Estimates) may be overcome by taking one aggregate Vote upon account for such Civil Services as have been sanctioned by Parliament in the preceding Session, and in order to facilitate this practice it is recommended that all salaries for the last quarter shall be payable on the 31st of March in each year, and the amount thus made applicable to each separate Vote for Civil Services should be stated in the schedule and detached from the amount voted."
 MR. COX  said, that the items should be put  seriatim
 THE CHAIRMAN : It has never been the practice of the House to put the separate items to the Vote  seriatim.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to ask whether it was the design of the Government in asking for this Vote on account to apply it exclusively to the payment of that which had fallen due this year to current expenditure as distinguished from extraordinary and incidental expenditure? With reference to the Science and Art Department, great doubts existed as to whether the sums applied by Government in that direction should he continued. He merely mentioned this as an illustration of the difference of opinion which existed.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The Motion before the Committee is, that the items for com mission and arbitration for the suppression of the slave trade be reduced by £2,000, and the hon. Member must confine his observations to that subject.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I object to the Vote being proceeded with. Because an hon. Member chooses to object to an item we are told that every other hon. Member is precluded from making any remarks with regard to previous items. I protest against that decision, as one limiting the just rights of the House of Commons.
 THE CHAIRMAN  begged leave to read to the noble Lord the Resolution of the House of Commons upon which he had acted. That Resolution, agreed to on the 19th of February, 1858, stated that when a Motion was made in Committee of Supply to omit or reduce any item of a Vote, the question should be proposed from the Chair for omitting or reducing such item accordingly and the Member should speak to such question only until it had been decided.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that another Resolution had been passed by the House at the same time with the Resolution he had just read—
 "Resolved, that after a question has been proposed from the Chair for omitting or reducing any item, no Motion shall be made or debate allowed on any preceding item."
 MR. HENLEY  said, that according to the strict rule of the House, the Chairman was no doubt right in deciding that no question could be discussed excepting that which had been put from the Chair. But his hon. Friend (Mr. F. S. Powell) had merely alluded to the Vote for the Science and Art Department, not with a view of entering into the merits of that question, but as an illustration to show how inconvenient was this mode of taking Votes on account. If the mouths of Members were to be tied in this way, nothing in the shape of an illustration would be possible in such a case for the future. He thought the Chairman must have misunderstood the argument which his hon. Friend was using.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he had hesitated for some time to stop the hon. Member, until it appeared to him that the hon. Member was discussing the item on its merits, and was not alluding to it as an illustration. Thereupon, in accordance with the rule of
 742
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to ask, whether he was at liberty to withdraw the Motion, in order to give hon. Members an opportunity of objecting to other items?
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it might be withdrawn with the permission of the House.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he wished to ask, whether it could be withdrawn until the Motion for reporting Progress had been put from the Chair?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought it would be irregular to withdraw the Motion until that for reporting Progress—which he bad made and would now repeat—had been disposed of. The Resolution which had been read by the Chairman had no reference to the case before the House. This was not a single Vote in the sense of that Resolution. It was an Estimate showing the several services for which Votes on account were required for the year 1865–6. The Resolution read by the Chairman referred to the ordinary Votes, each of which was made up of several items. The ruling of the Chairman might lead to embarrassing consequences, and the subject was not one to be disposed of hastily at one o'clock in the morning.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, that he was distinctly alluding to the Science and Art Vote as an illustration only.
 THE CHAIRMAN,  interposing, said, that the Motion of the hon. Member (Mr. Torrens) was withdrawn.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that his Motion had been withdrawn, and he had been ready to withdraw it if the House consented, provided he had the opportunity of bringing it forward again.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, he had put the question for the withdrawal of the Motion, and there being no dissentient voice, he bad declared it withdrawn accordingly. The question now before the House was, that he report Progress.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite seemed determined to have a grievance. The Motion having been withdrawn, there was no reason for continuing the discussion.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that a series of decisions had just been given, most irregular in character, and entirely preventing the Committee from proceeding with any satisfactory discussion. It was, therefore, his intention, and that of his
 743
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, that if there was one principle more than any other which it was necessary the House should respect in conducting its debates, it was acquiescence in the decision of the Speaker or of the hon. Member who sat as Chairman of Committees. If decisions made and founded on recorded Resolutions of the House were to be controverted and discussed by every hon. Member who thought he knew better than the Speaker and the Chairman, and who was wiser than the Committees by whom these Resolutions were framed, the proceedings of the House would fall into perfect confusion, and they would present a spectacle not at all creditable to this Assembly. As to the objection taken by the hon. Member, the decision of the Chairman appeared to him perfectly consistent with the invariable practice and with the Resolution which had been read. The Vote proposed was a single Vote. Every single Vote referred to a great number of details which were stated in the Estimates, and therefore this Vote was exactly in the category to which the Resolution pointed. However, he really thought that the House was not in a temper to make it desirable to continue the discussion. It was quite evident that they were not disposed to come to a final decision that evening, and therefore instead of wasting their time in constant wrangling, he would suggest that the Motion for reporting Progress be agreed to, and he hoped they would meet in a calmer temper another evening.
 MR. ALGERNON EGERTON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Government have come to any decision on the question of the exemption of Officers of the Volunteer Force from service on Juries?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I am bound to say that of the tone and temper of the hon. Gentlemen who desire to criticize the constitution of the Board of Admiralty I have no right to complain. I have rather to thank them for the valuable suggestions which they have made with respect to various matters. I think, however, that my hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury, in making the wholesale charges he has made regarding the responsibility of those who are at the head of the Admiralty, would have done well to take into consideration the opinions of those who held the post of First Lord. Sir James Graham when examined before the Committee on the Admiralty of 1861 deliberately told them that the First Lord was fully responsible for the duties of the Admiralty. I think he mentioned on that occasion that he gave his evidence most disinterestedly, because he never expected to hold the office of First Lord again. I submit, therefore, that the opinion so given by Sir James Graham is one to which my hon. Friend was bound to give every attention. If he (Sir Morton Peto) did not quote to-night, he quoted on a former occasion some evidence which Sir James Graham once gave to the effect that in order to make the Board of Admiralty work efficiently it should be made as unlike a Board as possible. But it is only fair to notice the evidence subsequently given on the same subject by the same distinguished man. No doubt Sir James Graham did once express that opinion, but he afterwards, before another Committee, stated that having given the subject his most careful consideration, he had seen reason to change it. He was asked by the Chairman—
 "Do you think, taking the whole administration of the army and navy, that the First Lord is more or less responsible for the whole conduct of the Navy than the Secretary for War is responsible for the conduct of the army?" "I look upon the First Lord of the Admiralty to stand in regard to the public, so far as relates to responsibility, in the same relation as the Secretary for War. But until recent changes in regard to the War Department the First Lord was infinitely more responsible." "Do you consider yourself entirely responsible for the administration of the Navy?" 692 "Yes, I consider the First Lord is responsible for the whole administration of the Navy." 693 Minotaur 694 695 696 697
 EARL PERCY  said, that he differed from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down, and believed that within a certain circle of the metropolis it was desirable that the metropolitan police should have jurisdiction. At any rate, as far as the mere detection of crime was concerned, it was more satisfactory to have the jurisdiction in the hands of the police than in those of the magistrates of the county.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thanked the right hon. Gentleman for bringing this subject before the House. He thought this case was a remarkable illustration of some observations which had fallen from him on a previous evening respecting the position of the Chief Commissioner of Police in reference to the rural districts. It showed how entirely out of harmony Sir Richard's police administration was with the circumstances of those districts. They had been included in his jurisdiction not from police reasons, but from financial reasons. All counties, however, were now able to get contributions from the Consolidated Fund for their police, and there was no longer the same reason for these districts being in connection with the metropolitan police as when that force alone
 722
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would not press his Motion.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the discussions in Committee on these Estimates. They embraced details which it was quite uncertain whether hon. Members would take up, and the House could never depend upon their being discussed. The House was often asked to give a Vote on account for Estimates that were not before it. It had often been suggested that it would be well to refer the Civil Service Estimates to a Select Committee before they came before the House for discussion; and as he thought that suggestion was well worthy of trial at least, he took this opportunity of submitting it to the House. The only objection that ever he had heard suggested to such a course was that it would weaken the responsibility of the Government, as the Estimates would be those of the Committee not of the Government, but he did not understand that any recommendation of a Committee could interfere with the free action of the House. In Prance and some other foreign countries it was the custom to refer the Budgets of different departments to Bureaux, and the same course might be attended with advantage here. They would be considered item by item in Committee, and the taxpayers would have further security that there was no excess in the public expenditure. He therefore begged to move—
 "That the Civil Service Estimates be referred to a Select Committee for examination, and to report thereon, in respect of each class separately, such matters as may appear to them specially to deserve the attention of the House.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, having been a Member of this House when Mr. Cobden first took his seat, and having remained in the House during the whole of his lengthened career, I cannot reconcile it to myself to he silent on this occasion, when we have to deplore the loss of one so eminent, and that too in the ripeness of his manhood and the full vigour of his intellect. 677
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished to call attention to a subject of considerable importance, but which, on its first aspect, might not appear to be very deserving the attention of the House. He desired to invite their attention to the correspondence just laid before the House between Sir Richard Mayne and the Magistrates of Barnet. The subject seemed small, but there was involved the question, whether that House would consent to allow habitually the Chief Commissioner of Police, an Executive officer, to set at nought or explain away by his instruction the legislation of Parliament. The facts out of which this question arose were briefly these. The magistrates at Barnet sentenced two boys under the Juvenile Offenders' Act to be whipped, and took advantage of a section in that Act which enabled them to order the punishment to be inflicted by a constable, as, the boys being the children of respectable parents, it was desired to spare them the stigma of confinement in the county gaol. Upon applying to the Inspector of Police, however, the magistrates were informed that to carry out their sentence would be contrary to his instructions. Now, the House ought to consider whether it would share with the ordinary, by a process of official instructions, the functions of legislation. At least the instructions so issued should be always laid before Parliament, so that the Legislature might be made aware of what had become of previous legislation, and on what practical conditions of the law it might proceed to further enactments. The magistrates, of course, were rather astonished at the Inspector's statement, because Barnet being a rural district, within the Metropolitan Police Act, their own constables had disappeared, and had become merged in the metropolitan Police. They remonstrated, and in reply they got a letter from Sir Richard Mayne referring to two cases which had occurred at Epsom and Richmond some twenty or thirty years ago. This letter seemed somewhat to implicate the Home Secretary in the matter, for Sir Richard stated that in these cases he had taken the advice of Sir George Grey, who thought that though the police were not exempt in case of magisterial order from the duty of whipping offenders, yet some arrangement might
 720 "I do not think the police ought to be allowed by me to inflict such a punishment unless precautions are taken by the magistrates to guard against any abuse of the power proposed to be given, and that the sentence should not be inflicted if, from the state of health of the prisoner, or other causes, dangerous consequences might ensue. For these purposes, some persons should attend on the part of the magistrates to see that the punishment is duly inflicted according to the sentence, and a competent medical
 721
 MR. SEELY  said, that his hon. Friend
 705 706 Falcon, Falcon Wasp, 707 Lyra, Sharpshooter Salamander 708 709
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the Bill could not come on on the 27th, and he would state on the 24th what day he would proceed with it.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was very glad that the hon. Baronet had again brought this subject before the House. He agreed with much that had been said on the subject by the hon. Baronet, who had referred to high authorities who had expressed opinions condemnatory of the present Board of Admiralty. He might have gone further and have said that, with the exception of those who were, or had been, members of the Board, he would not have found a single sane man in the country who was satisfied with the present system. He (Mr. Bentinck) agreed with the hon. Baronet in condemning the system of having a Board of Admiralty at the head of the Naval Department of the country. The business could not be satisfactorily conducted by a Board. The first result was the entire absence of all responsibility. This alone was sufficient to constitute inefficiency. But it appeared to him that the system of such a Board as the Board of Admiralty was doubly mischievous, and for this reason—that in a Board of Admiralty, composed as it generally was, with a civilian at its head, and the two senior Naval Lords, a great part of the business must be conducted under the authority of those Naval Lords, without responsibility on their part, the responsibility remaining with the civilian. Thus there was action without responsibility, and responsibility without the power of action. Another great imperfection in the constitution of the Admiralty Board was its political character; and this necessarily led to those constant changes in the members of the Board, which entirely prevented the possibility of any continuous and well conducted system. With respect to the prac-
 686 687
 MR. LYALL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why such an unequal system prevails at the Customs for remunerating their Out-door Officers, so that in some ports, like Whitehaven, where both the cost of living is higher and the business much greater than in many other ports, yet the salary of the Officers is on a more reduced scale?
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether it is intended to test the Lancaster, Scott, and French 7-inch gun, competion guns, by firing from them shells filled with powder, before coming to a decision as to the best system of rifling; and whether it is true that the 7-inch shunt and French guns have, in the late competition at Shoeburyness, been placed under similar conditions, and whether one has yet been fired from a wooden and another from an iron carriage; and whether other advantages have not been given to the shunt gun?
 MR. H. ROBERTSON  said, there was one department of the Admiralty to which he had turned his attention—namely, that of the Director of Public Works, and by way of illustration he would mention two important public works respecting which there were not two opinions both as to their necessity and the advantage both as regarded the efficiency of the navy and in an economical point of view of executing them rapidly; he meant the contemplated improvements in Portsmouth Dockyard, and that at Malta. There was a great want of efficiency in that department. With regard to Portsmouth, on the 18th of February in last year a plan was produced for the extension of the dockyard at that place, hearing the signature of the Director of Public Works, but anything more ridiculous he had never seen or less fitted for
 690 dilettante 691
 MR. CHILDERS  said, after the three nights' debate which they had had upon questions connected with the Admiralty the House would not probably wish to postpone the subject of the detailed Estimates much longer. He thought that many of the questions which had been asked in the course, of the discussion would best be answered in Committee when the Vote to which any question had reference was before them. However, he would risk detaining them for a few moments while he did his best to reply to some remarks which
 713 714 715 716 717
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman opposite (the Member for Limerick County), When he proposes to bring on this Bill, and whether he has made any arrangement with the Government to secure a proper opportunity for its discussion?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I feel that I cannot address the House on this occasion; but every expression of sympathy which I have heard has been most grateful to my heart. But the time which has elapsed since, in my presence, the manliest and gentlest spirit that ever quitted or tenanted ft human form took its flight is so short that I dare not even attempt to give utterance to the feelings by which I am oppressed. I shall leave to some calmer moment when I may have an opportunity of speaking before some portion of my countrymen, the lesson which I think may be learned from the life and character of my friend. I have only to say that after twenty years of most intimate and almost brotherly friendship with him, I little know how much I loved him until I found that I had lost him.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he agreed with the strictures made by the hon. Member (Mr. Robertson) as to the system upon which the dockyard works were conducted. Instead of getting a practical engineer to make a plan and then carrying on the works with the necessary rapidity, Votes for small amounts were passed from year to year, and the work was delayed till a new Administration came into office, when an entire change was probably made in the plan. In looking over the accounts, he found the result of this system to be that in ten years £1,500,000 had been spent upon peddling alterations of works without making them more efficient for the business of the navy. He hoped, therefore, that any new plan would be laid on the table soon, would be properly discussed, and then executed more rapidly than had been the system hitherto. Another point to which he would refer was the expense of managing the dockyards compared with the results obtained in the shape of ships turned out. Next year it appeared the cost of management of the various dockyards would be £132,631, and that it was proposed to build 15,100 tons of ships and to employ a total of 4,802 shipwrights. It appeared to him that the cost of management in the dockyards was quite disproportioned to the work done, and unless his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) could give some more detailed explanations than the Returns laid upon the table furnished, the House and the country would probably come to the same conclusion. The cost of repairs formed a very large item, and would continue to do so while the present system was in operation. It would be much cheaper for the Government to repair only such ships as were serviceable, or to build new ones, instead of wasting so much money in patching up old vessels that were of very little use.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he has recently received any communications relative to certain discrepancies in the papers which persons assessed to the Income Tax are called upon to fill up; and, if so, whether he will lay the same upon the table of the House?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor
 671
 MR. J. R. YORKE  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, with reference to his statement that no Capitation Grant is made to Drill Instructors of Administrative Volunteer Battalions because they are not attached to any particular corps, Whether he is aware that the cost of clothing and equipping such Instructors now falls on the particular companies to which they are attached; and whether, considering the greater need companies in Administrative Battalions have of Government assistance, it is intended to make any provision for defraying the cost of such equipment?
 MR. WHITBREAD  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had rested his charge against the Board of Admiralty on the ground that almost every man who had been connected with that Board, and who was thoroughly acquainted with its working, had given his support to the present system, while those who were unacquainted with its mode of conducting business accused it of inefficiency. But it was to be hoped that when the Resolution to which the hon. Gentleman had referred was hereafter proposed, the House would be guided by the opinions of those who were practically most conversant with the matter. The whole drift and burden of the speeches made against the constitution of the Board was "the total want of Parliamentary responsibility." What, he asked, was meant by that often repeated phrase? He had never heard any definition given of it, but he supposed that those who used it intended to imply that when the heads of a public Department did anything in the opinion of the House which was wrong, or failed to do anything which in the opinion of the House ought to be done, the House should have the power of censuring them or driving them from office. Well, he maintained that the House had at
 688 689
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that he did not think it probable that any legislation on that subject could be undertaken during the present Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he had received a communication on the subject from one gentleman, and that was the only communication he had received. He had also received the answer of the Board of Inland Revenue to the statement made by that gentleman, and if his hon. and learned Friend wished to see the papers he could do so, and he would then he able to form his own judgment whether or not it was necessary to bring the matter before Parliament. For his own part, he thought such a course unnecessary.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was bound to say that very great inconvenience was felt in the country from the want of a measure of this kind, and he much regretted having failed to obtain the assent of the House to it. At the same time, it was such a measure as it would not be satisfactory to have passed unless it received a very general assent, and he could not see any prospect of obtaining that degree of assent to it during the present Session. However, he looked forward to the House legislating upon the subject on a future occasion.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he will state or allow a Return to be made showing to what extent the Cultivation of Gardens by Soldiers has been adopted in the Army?
 MR. MONSELL,  in reply, said, it was certainly his intention to bring on the measure, which excited very great interest in Ireland. It stood first among the notices for Friday upon going into Supply; but the Motion for the adjournment of the House unfortunately stood before it. He trusted, however, to be able to make an arrangement with the noble Lord at the head of the Government to secure the object which the right hon. and learned Gentleman desired.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ire-
 670
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed
 723 Vict., 724
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, though he could not agree with him in all respects, he thought the House ought to be greatly obliged to the hon. Baronet (Sir Morton Peto) for giving it an opportunity of again recording its dissatisfaction with the present constitution of the Admiralty. The noble Lord had quoted Sir James Graham, as usual, but, as a sailor, he (Sir James Elphinstone) had always contended that Sir James Graham's administration of the navy was more disastrous than any
 701 702 Royal Sovereign Prince Consort, 703 704
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : As the hon. Member for Finsbury had not concluded his speech with any Motion, I should not have troubled the House had it not been that he has referred to the evidence which I gave before the Committee of 1861. I must say that I know no reason for receding from the evidence I then gave. That evidence certainly was not favourable to the present constitution of the Board of Admiralty as being the best mode in which the administration of the great Department of the navy could be efficiently worked. I gave that reluctantly, as I was following three or four witnesses who then held, or had held, the office of First Lord of the
 698 699 700
 SIR ROBERT PEEL,  said in reply, that he expected to be able to present the Report to Parliament shortly after Easter.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he desired to explain that he had not intended to impute any blame to the Duke of Somerset, but rather to cast blame upon the House for what was notorious. He had heard the noble Lord himself regret that influence of a particular kind was brought to bear upon the Admiralty upon certain occasions.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that as one who had known Mr. Cobden for seventeen years, he could not refrain from joining in the profound regret which had been expressed at the loss which the House and the country had sustained. 679 680 681 682 683 Biography of Samuel Bentham, 684 685
 MR. CAVE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Report of the Sea Fishery Commission would be made in time for legislation on the Oyster Fishery during the present Session?
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it be his intention to re-introduce the Bill for the Collection of Taxes; and, if so, to include exceptional Clauses in the same, or the compensation Clause, as before?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said: Mr. Speaker, it is impossible for this House to have that order put without calling to its mind the great loss which this House and the country have sustained by the event which took place yesterday morning. Sir, Mr. Cobden, whose loss we deplore, occupied a pre-eminent position both as a Member of this House and as a member of the British nation. I do not mean, in the few words I have to say, to disguise or to avoid stating that there were many matters upon which a great number of people differed from Mr. Cobden, I among the rest. But those who differed from him the most never could doubt the honesty of his purpose
 674 675 676
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said he could not agree to the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He would move the omission of the words "by its common seal, and also by the signature of such Judge or Officer "after" shall be signified," in order to insert "in such manner as the Court may by any general order authorize for such purpose."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the clause provided that there should be two modes of transferring these debentures; the one by memorandum, entered in the books of the Court; the other by indorsement of the transferee. He objected to the second of these modes of transfer, and proposed that the words authorizing it should be struck out.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, this clause, which was the most important of the Bill, provided that in the case of unencumbered land no debenture or debentures should be charged upon the land for more than ten times what might appear to the Court to be the yearly value of the land, having regard to any lease or other matter affecting it; nor was the annual amount of interest reserved on any debenture to exceed one-half of what might appear to the Court to be its yearly value. Now, how was the Court to ascertain the value of the land? There was no machinery for doing so supplied by the Bill. He had no faith in Court valuations. The Court, which in such matters had no knowledge of its own, must place confidence in other persons, such as surveyors and professional valuers, who, he was sorry to say, were certainly not infallible and not always honest. They could never be sure that the margin they proposed to leave really existed. This was the clause in regard to which his great objection to that scheme mainly turned. What he disliked and distrusted in all Bills of that kind—although he did not think it belonged to his department to take the whole responsibility of opposing a considerable opinion entertained in favour of that experiment—was that a great number of simple people in the country might be led by the machinery of these measures, by the intervention of the Court, and all the other forms, to suppose that they need not look narrowly into the title or the value of the property on the security of which they lent their money, and that great losses and, perhaps, frauds might occur. The limit of one half, the yearly value fixed by the clause, appeared very fair, provided they could be quite sure that that amount would be  bonâ fide
 COLONEL DUNNE  concurred in the objections taken by the Attorney General to
 754
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the explanation elicited in the course of that discussion as to the public valuation of lands in Ireland seemed to be important; but there was not a word about that valuation in the Bill. He proposed, therefore, to add to the clause, as an additional security, these words, "Not exceeding in any case the value fixed by the public valuation of lands in Ireland."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had proposed the words in order to get out of the region of mere speculative values, and he must express some surprise, after the course which the discussion had taken, that any one should object to such an Amendment.
 MR. KER  suggested that, as a general rule, the Government valuation might be taken, subject, however, to certain exceptions, within the discretion of the Court.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought it would be much safer to adopt the Government valuation than to leave the matter to the Court.
 THE O'DONOGHUE,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, it was intended to repeal an Act of Queen Anne, under which poor people in Ireland were sentenced to penal servitude for the offence of vagrancy. The Act of Anne was intended to deal with a state of things which no longer existed, and had often been made an instrument of oppression. He hoped the Government would not object to the second reading. Should any discussion be thought desirable it might be taken on going into Committee.
 COLONEL DUNNE  thought that legislation of this kind was not conducted in a manner sufficiently careful—when it proposed to repeal existing Acts of Parliament they ought to be careful to have those Acts before them and know what they meant. It seemed absurd to him to talk of taking action against "Tories, Rapparees, and Robbers." There are not in Ireland such things as "Tories." He did not think that at this day there was such a thing as a Tory to be found even in that House. Originally, "Tories" were disbanded soldiers in Ireland, who lived a very irregular life, at least were said to do so by their enemies, and the name was finally given to the Royal party; just as the "Whigs" in Scotland did, who were opponents of the Government, and gave their names to the democratic party. Nothing but the fantastic name of the Bill—"Tories, Robbers, and Rapparees "—had called attention to it. The Bill seemed to be a remnant of the old penal laws, and as such objectionable; but as there were no other objects, it seemed now to have been exercised as a law against vagrants, and the case mentioned by the hon. Member, against a notorious and incorrigible thief. If it were necessary to deal with the subject of vagrancy let a proper Act be introduced upon the subject. He hoped that at a future stage of the Bill a further explanation of the objects of the Bill would be given to the House.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  stated that the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) had given notice of an important Amendment to this clause, and, as he was not present, he should move that the clause be in the meantime postponed.
 MR. BROMLEY  said, he should not object to the insertion of the right hon. Gentleman's clause if the following, of which he (Mr. Bromley) had given notice, was also added:—
 "That, from the passing of this Act, every
 759
 MR. NEATE  said, it was not clearly shown by the Bill whether, when the police officers took destitute persons to the relieving officer, they would certainly be relieved. There should be no doubt left on that point.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the clause which he had proposed would have the effect of giving the police full authority, after inquiry, to take any person in distress to an asylum provided for the relief of vagrants. The clause had been well considered, and he had communicated with the head of the police on the subject, and he considered the clause made ample provision for the objects in view. When a policeman conducted a vagrant to the workhouse the authorities of that establishment would have no power to refuse the destitute person admittance—it was imperative on them to admit him, because he had been brought there by the police. With respect to the doubt expressed by the hon. Member for Oxford, the words "other places of reception" made it clear that the workhouse authorities were under the obligation to relieve persons said to be
 760
 MR. HENLEY  desired to know how far it was necessary to have the proposed addition made to the clause; and also whether the right hon. Gentleman had added to the clause the words "destitute persons," which he (Mr. Henley) privately suggested to him; and for this reason the object of the Bill was to take care that persons destitute in the streets of London at night should not perish, and that any neglect that should occur might be readily traceable to the person really culpable. As the clause of the right hon. Gentleman was now drawn, the first inquiry must be whether the person found destitute was a wayfarer, a wanderer, or a foundling. Now, it would not be very easy in the case of a man sixty or seventy years of age destitute in the streets for the police to ascertain if he really were a foundling; and the proof of what was a wanderer might also be a matter of some difficulty. The next question was whether he was a wayfarer, and as to this there might be a difference of opinion. Now, if the man were not one of those three things no person would be to blame for not taking him to one of the places provided under the Bill, or for not receiving him when he was so taken. But if the right hon. Gentleman would consent to the introduction of the words "destitute persons" as he (Mr. Henley) had suggested, that would meet everything. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman was willing to make that alteration. He now wished to call the attention of the Committee to the places to which vagrants were taken, which was a matter of some consequence. A Return had been lately circulated giving a minute and particular description of the places provided by the different unions for their reception. In the main, the accommodation provided appeared to be sufficient and reasonable; but there were, he was bound to say, three strange exceptions to the rule, and he was rather astonished at their having escaped the lynx eye of the Poor Law Board. The exceptions to which he alluded were Paddington, Rotherhithe, and St. George's, Southwark. Paddington was one of those unions which generally provided the most liberal accommodation for the poor of any of the unions, and yet the accommodation they provided for the houseless poor appeared to have escaped the notice of the Poor Law Board, notwithstanding that their attention had been called by Mr. Farnall to the circumstance that upon one
 762 763
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he was quite willing to accept the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman to insert the words "other destitute persons" after the words "wayfarer, wanderer." With respect to the parishes which had been referred to, where it was considered adequate provision had not been made, he (Mr. C. P. Villiers) thought the figures in the Return were quite correct, and he was glad the subject had been introduced. He had observed the inadequacy of the provision made in these parishes when the Returns were published, and it was asked what power there was of compelling any parish to provide better accommodation. The answer was that those places which did not make sufficient provision would not be certified as having complied with the Act, and therefore would not be re-im-
 764
 MR. HENLEY : If the right hon. Gentleman said that a place which gave seventy cubic feet for a human being to sleep in was better than under a former state of things before the passing of this Act, he thought it was not a revelation of a very creditable state of things. It was like putting two persons in one coffin to confine them to a space of seventy cubical feet. It was quite clear that poor people would die in the streets sooner than be confined in such places.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Before the passing of this Act, in many parishes there were no vagrant wards at all, and in some of the rich parishes boards were put up to say there was no admittance. As to the seventy cubic feet of space, there must be some mistake. At Rotherhithe the space was ninety feet, the height being seven feet six inches; in the other parishes it was 109. However, difficulties in the way of providing these refuges had now been removed.
 MR. BROMLEY  then formally moved his Amendment, stating that he had also been in communication with the police, who had stated to him that their decided opinion was that the clause of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) was
 765
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, there was a clause of which the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) had given notice, and to which there was no objection, and he (Mr. C. P. Villiers) would therefore move, in the noble Lord's absence, that the clause be added with an alteration rendered neceasary by the Amendment which had just been made in the preceding clause. The clause would, therefore, run thus—
 "The Guardians of every union or parish referred to in the said Act shall admit without delay, either to the workhouse or to the wards or places of reception provided under the said Act, every poor and other destitute person who shall apply to be admitted during the hours between six o'clock in the evening and eight in the morning in the months between October and March inclusive, and during the hours between eight o'clock in the evening and eight o'clock in the morning in the months between April and September inclusive, and who shall not have applied in the same parish during thirty days previously; and the Guardians shall cause to be furnished to every poor person so admitted such relief under such conditions as the Poor Law Board, under general order, shall direct."
 MR. AYRTON  rose to move an Amendment the effect of which would be to make the provisions of the Bill permanent. As long as the Bill was known to be temporary only, he did not believe that the different Boards of Guardians would take any trouble or care to go to the expense which would necessarily be caused by carrying out the provisions of the measure. No doubt the condition of many of the wards was unsatisfactory, but the object of the Bill would certainly not be thoroughly attained unless the Bill were made permanent. They must bear in mind, too, that the legislation of to day would take some time before it would be-
 766 "Of destitute wayfarers, wanderers, and foundlings in the several unions and parishes referred to in the said Act, received and to be received from and after Lady Day, 1865."
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he did not in the least object to the Amendment, as it was in strict accordance with the
 767
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he desired it to be understood that in consenting that the Bill should pass through Committee receiving appropriate Amendments, he distinctly reserved to himself and the Government the right to take any course at a later stage of the present Bill, as well as of other Bills with a similar object, which might seem to be right. The Bills involved very important principles, and it was for the House to consider how far it would be contrary to the course hitherto pursued—with respect to Irish legislation especially—to give Parliamentary facilities for the re-creation of encumbrances on land. The next point to which the attention of the House ought to be directed, was the question how far it was expedient to give the appearance of an especial Parliamentary security to mortgages on land by means of debentures, which might be created at common law without such security. Another important point was the question of value in regard to the proposed debentures. If the appearance of a Parliamentary security was
 751
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad that the House had received an assurance that these Bills, which were important either for good or evil, would have the consideration of the Government, and he desired it to be understood that if they were passed the adoption of them would be upon the responsibility of the Government. When they were brought in he had called the attention of the House to what he feared might be the  guasi
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by the Bill the Landed Estates Court was to examine the title to the land on which the debentures were to be charged, and also to ascertain that since the granting of the certificate no persons had acquired
 752 "The seal of the Court shall be conclusive proof of the validity of the debenture to or upon which such seal shall be affixed or impressed."
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  counselled caution in that matter, and thought the hon. Member (Mr. Scully) would exercise a wise discretion in acceding to the proposal of the Attorney General.
 COLONEL FRENCH  observed, that presentments to the grand jury under this Act were made, not in cases where the parties accused had merely threatened, but had actually committed, malicious injuries. If the Act was repealed, something should be done to suppress this class of offenders who were very common in the rural districts of Ireland.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he was ready to assent to the Motion for the second reading of the Bill, upon the understanding that it should be open to discussion on the Motion for going into Committee. He believed that some misapprehension prevailed with respect to the existing state of the law. There were three Acts which related to this subject—the Act of 6th of Queen Anne, in which the words "Tories, Robbers, and Rapparees" were introduced; the Act of the 2nd of George II., with respect to which some doubt had arisen whether it continued that of Queen Anne; and the 31st George III., chapter 44, which continued not only the Act of Anne, but many other most useful Acts, which no one wished to see repealed. The first clause of the present Bill would, however, under the words "the several Acts amending and continuing the same" repeal all those Acts, and so far it should be considered wholly inadmissible. It was under the Act 31st George III. that presentations before the grand jury took place, and however absurd the thing might seem to be in these days, it had worked very beneficially in many instances. There were and had always been in Ireland, a number of idle vagabonds prowling about the country, without any visible means of subsistence, who were found, not only "coshering," but intimidating farmers to give them supplies, and it was in the prosecution of this class of offenders that the Act was found convenient. At the same time it was too harsh and peremp-
 757
 MR. SCULLY  allowed that this clause contained the whole essence and marrow of the Bill. However, his intimate acquaintance with the transfer of land in Ireland enabled him to state that he had every confidence in the valuations of the Landed Estates Court, the Judges of which were practical men, with every appliance at their command, In a letter which he had recently received from Judge Longfield, that learned Judge expressed a hope that he would insist on the principle of valuation by the Court, otherwise the Bill would be of little value. The writer saw no substitute for such a system of valuation, and did not believe that the public would have any confidence in any valuation by a person selected by the owner himself. That a public valuation was a safe standard of value was proved by the experience of other countries. In Poland the limit of three-fifths was adopted, whereas the present Bill took only one-half. In Hamburg and Frankfort the limit was one-half, with a guarantee of the title by the State. In Belgium, Lombardy, parts of Germany, and Switzerland, public valuations were also used to measure loans on land; and in Ireland they had a uniform Government valuation, which regulated all rates on land, such as poor rates, income tax, &c. He had tried to keep down the limit as low as possible, so that the debenture should be almost cash, and he gave no Government guarantee, which was expressly negatived by the 30th clause, providing that under no circumstances should the holder of a debenture have any claim on the Court or on the public funds in respect of any mistake or omission relating to the value of title to any estate or otherwise.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would not object to the second reading of the Bill; but it would require to be considerably altered in Committee. The Act of Anne being to continue only for seven years, had died a natural death; but a subsequent Act, which was not alluded to in this Bill, had set it on its legs again. The 6th of Anne was only one of the penal enact-
 758
 MR. SCULLY  supposed he must submit if the hon. and learned Gentleman persevered, but if this alteration were now made a Bill would have to be introduced before long to get rid of it.
 MR. SCULLY  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not insist on that alteration, which would cut down the Bill much too far. In many cases the public valuation in Ireland was far too low, and no one would dream of dealing with land merely on that valuation.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had previously proposed a third mode of transfer in addition to the two now contained in the clause, and that third mode was by delivery, like a bank note; but as the Select Committee would not agree to it, he had to give it up. He supposed he must also give up the second mode—namely, by indorsement, as the Attorney General would not assent to it; but he believed its omission would be mischievous. For his own part, he did not see why these debentures should not pass by delivery, like a bank note; but, probably,
 753
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had at first intended to move the omission of the clause, and that another should be substituted. But he would suggest that to the words "common seal" should be added "special seal," a course approved of by Judge Long-field, to whom he had sent a copy of the Bill as it came from the Select Committee.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  believed that the public valuation of land in Ireland was based on sound principles, and would admirably answer all the purposes required by the present Bill. It was from 10 to 20 per cent under the real value.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had no objection to the Bill being read a second
 756
 MR. DRAX,  in seconding the Amendment, contended that Lord Spencer's rights were not so large as had been assumed. In 1860 that noble Lord attempted to inclose a portion of Wimbledon Common adjoining his (Mr. Drax's) property, and a fence six feet high was put up there. He brought an action against the noble Lord, which was to have been tried at Croydon Assizes; but after putting the trial off as long as he could the noble Lord at last allowed judgment to go against him by default, and the fence had to be pulled down again and the land thrown open to the public. That was conclusive proof that Lord Spencer and his tenants had no right to inclose without an Act of Parliament. He knew something of the rights of lords of the manor, and they were very trifling. Lord Spencer had been allowed to cut turf and sell it for his benefit and to the injury of the freeholders and copyholders. He had also sold sand and gravel; the only other right which a lord of the manor had was to timber, and of that there was very little on Wimbledon Common. Lord Spencer had not an inch of land on the Common.
 776
 MR. LOCKE KING  thought it was desirable, in the interests of the public, and of those residing in the neighbourhood, that the Bill should be read a second time. He was not willing to discuss the speech of the noble Lord (Viscount Bury), but he wished the House to bear in mind that several objectionable parts of the Bill had been withdrawn. The proposal to enclose a portion of the Common formed no longer a part of the scheme, and the power of selling the 300 acres only remained part of the Bill, upon the condition that the inhabitants were unable to raise sufficient funds for the contemplated improvements. It would be a great boon to the public to obtain something like 1,000 acres for ever; and if this Bill were not passed there was a possibility that future lords of the manor would deprive them of it. He thought the Bill should be read a second time, and sent to a Select Committee.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Government have received any information of the renewal of the New Zealand War, and of a battle having taken place in which thirteen of our troops had been killed?
 MR. COWPER  said, it was a good maxim that we should not look a gift horse in the mouth; but, in this instance, he thought the more the proffered gift was looked at the more valuable we would find it to be. He thought the House would make a great mistake if they did not allow the Bill to be read a second time. The object of that Bill was to secure to the public for ever the unrestricted use of Wimbledon Common. Whatever might be Lord Spencer's rights over the 688 acres offered to be given up to the public by the Bill, those rights had been freely given up. A combination might possibly hereafter be made between the lord of the manor and those having common rights, by which the public would be deprived of the use of the Common; but this Bill would prevent the possibility of that. There were details in the scheme which had met with great objection, and he thought that in the framing of the scheme Lord Spencer had not been well advised; but the objectionable parts of the original scheme had been withdrawn. The Committee had come, by a majority, to the conclusion that there were three objections to the scheme. The first was the proposal to place a fence round the Common; the second, the selling of land j and third, the extinction of common rights. The noble Lord who had moved the second reading of the Bill, and the hon. Member who had seconded the Motion, both said that Lord Spencer had agreed to withdraw his proposal for fencing the Common; and to abandon the power of selling land, if the necessary funds could be obtained, either by means of voluntary-contributions, or by a rate levied upon the residents in the locality. They had been told that the residents were perfectly able and willing to provide the money, and they might, therefore, safely conclude that no sale would take place. The third point
 781
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the present invasion of Bhootan has been undertaken with the consent and sanction of the Home Government; whether it be true that two of Her Majesty's European Regiments have been ordered up to support the invading force; and whether it be the intention of the Indian Government to keep the Troops in the unhealthy country of Bhootan during the coming rainy season; and, if so, what, if any, arrangements have been made for putting them under cover?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in reply, said, the only answer which he could give the hon. and gallant Member was, that under the present state of the law in China any European committing any act which would be a crime by the law of this country was amenable, if he could be caught and the facts proved against him, to the Consular authorities in China, and
 783
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not think any difficulty would arise from the delay in the Bill which would be caused by disagreeing with the Amendments.
 MR. WHITE  quite agreed with the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour) with regard to our  State Papers, Austrian State Papers, palavers State Papers, Martens' Recueil, Archives Diplomatiques 792 State Papers,
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, that he should follow the suggestion thrown out by his right hon. Friend the Secretary for the Colonies, and carefully abstain from cast-
 821 822 823 824
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said: I believe every Gentleman who has yet spoken this evening voted for the fortifications; I voted against them, and am desirous of shortly stating my reasons for so doing. The right hon. the Secretary of State for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell) deprecates further discussion on this question, but I think the noble Lord (Lord Elcho) has rendered a public service by bringing the subject again under the notice of the House. We have committed so many blunders in our policy towards Canada that we ought to be particularly cautious to escape errors for the future. Some thirty years ago the people of Canada were dissatisfied with being governed by a colonial Minister sitting in London, and prayed for the right
 825 826 "He has not the slightest doubt that what made New Brunswick and Nova Scotia hang back from the union was partly because they would be swamped by the greater provinces of Canada, but still more because they could not make up their minds to give up the good things which they were accustomed to get from England, and they feared they would be thrown on their own resources." 827 828
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he could not understand what object the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire had in bringing forward this Motion, as the question appeared to him to have been thoroughly settled on a former occasion. He at first supposed that the noble Lord desired to reverse the Vote for the fortifications of Canada which had been agreed to a few evenings ago; but that impression was removed when he heard the noble Lord urge upon the Government the importance of defending Quebec. But if the noble Lord were really of opinion that Quebec should be defended, what was the object of his Motion? The defensibility of Canada had been discussed by the highest military authorities in their official capacity, and it has been stated that they had given their opinion in favour of the general scheme of defence and of the particular works which had been brought
 830 831 832
 GENERAL PEEL : I have already given my opinion as to the policy of defending Canada, and I do not intend to trespass upon the time of the House for more than a few minutes on this occasion. I regret that anything should have occurred to render necessary a renewal of the debate on this subject, or which should have the appearance of weakening in any way or producing any misunderstanding with regard to the unanimous decision of the House of Commons that if Canada should be attacked on our account it was our duty to defend her. Even the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne, I think, went that length; and although he, as well as my noble Friend the Member for Haddingtonshire, says it is not possible to do so—[Lord ELCHO: Not in Canada]—still they admit that it is our duty, if possible, to defend Canada if the Canadians are prepared to assist in defending themselves. Now, I do not at all wish to speculate as to the power which might be brought to bear either in attacking or defending Canada. The Canadians themselves, I imagine, ought to be the best judges whether they would be able to resist attack or not; and, for my own part, I can only say that if they are prepared to display the same devotion and energy as the Americans of the South have exhibited they may hope, with our assistance, to be able to resist any attack which may be made upon them. I recollect having heard it said within the last twenty-five years that it was impossible to defend this country, and that if England were invaded the best thing the Guards could do would be to march out of London and leave it to take care of itself. But what was the answer of the Minister of that day to those statements—of a Minister who could not
 843 "In the first place, the Guards would not inarch out of London; and, in the next place, if they did they would be pelted by every old woman whom they met." 844 845
 GENERAL PEEL  said, his complaint against the right hon. Gentleman was rather that he had never answered explicitly the questions which had been put on the subject than that he had made any positive statement.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said the Vote had already been postponed as late as possible, and every exertion had been made to place the Reports relating to the War Office in the hands of Members in time for that discussion. It was very desirable that the discussion on the subject should be taken that night, as it had occasioned considerable amount of excitement in the War Office.
 GENERAL PEEL  thought that was a reason why the matter should not be hurried over that night.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, there could be no reason for hurrying on the Vote, as it could not come into operation before the 30th June.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply to some observations which fell from the hon. and gallant Member for Lichfield (Major Anson), said, it was true that Colonel Gordon and other officers had been sent to Canada at the time of the  Trent 847 848
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he did not think that the excitement in the War Office was in the least owing to the Report of the Committee—he believed, on the contrary, that the recommendations of the Committee were on the whole well received at the War Office. It was owing to the known fact that a discussion was about to take place in that House, and the idea which was entertained that changes might result there from in the position of some of the officials. As the hon. Baronet had said, such a state of things must be injurious to the public service, and therefore the sooner it was terminated the better; but as it appeared to be the general wish that the discussion should be postponed, he would yield to that wish. Perhaps, however, there would be no objection to their going on with the non-effective Votes to-night.
 COLONEL DUNNE  called attention to the necessity of making some change in the pensions and position of soldiers. Until the position of the soldier was improved, and till every man entering the army could feel assured that after a certain time, unless his conduct disentitled him, he should receive such a pension as would support his existence, any alteration in the time of service would be of no avail. In every case pensions were given in the most niggardly and unfair way. The papers were filled with cases of hardship from that cause. He held the War Office responsible for the present state of things. The
 854 d. d.
 COLONEL NORTH  felt bound to compare the pay and allowances of the Major of Chelsea Hospital with those of the two senior clerks of that establishment. He did not mean that the latter were too high. Mr. Talman, who had been nearly half a century in the important office he filled with great credit to himself, received not one farthing more than he was justly entitled to. The pay of the second clerk began at £350, and rose to £450 per annum, at an annual increase of £15. The first clerk had an unfurnished house, and received eight tons of coals, 1001b. of candles, and 15,000 cubit feet of gas. The pay of the Major of the future establishment was to be £350, including his half-pay, or his half-pay with so much salary in addition as would make up £350 a year. He might also receive a pension for wounds; £10 per annum in lieu of clothing—namely, the Windsor uniform. He was allowed unfurnished apartments, coachhouse, and stabling for three horses, twelve tons of coals, 1501b. of candles, and 25,000 cubic feet of gas. What were the military services of Sir John Wilson? He had served the country for sixty-eight years. He served as midshipman in the navy for nearly six years. He was employed on the coast of Ireland during the rebellion in 1798; in the expedition to the Helder in 1799, and Egypt in 1801, where he received a medal from the Capitan Pasha for having saved the lives of a boat's crew belonging to a Turkish man-of-war. He received three wounds while a midshipman, and the last was a severe wound on the head, which produced total deafness, in consequence of which he was invalided, and quited the navy in 1803. His health being restored he entered the army in 1804, and served in the 3rd Battalion Royals at Walcheren in 1809, where he was twice wounded during the siege of Flushing. He afterwards served in the Peninsula, and was in the battles of Busaco, the retreat to the lines of Torres Vedras, and at the actions of Pombal, Redinha,
 855 856
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply to the hon. and gallant Member for the Queen's County (Colonel Dunne), said he had never denied that the War Office were responsible for the pension warrant; what he said was that the pensions were considered by the Chelsea Commissioners, acting under the warrant issued by the Horse Guards, and that they were granted on more liberal terms than formerly. He understood the hon. and gallant Member to say that after a twenty-one years' service a soldier might receive 6 d. d. s.; d. 857
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that nothing could be more miserable than the pay of the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor. The Field Marshal received £500 a year, and another General of the army of seventy-one years' service received £400. The reason why he called attention to the pay of the Major was that the £350 a year granted to him included his half-pay. Sir John Wilson had £350 a year in addition to his half-pay, and he wanted to know if Sir John Wilson's successor, who would be sure to be an old and deserving officer, would have the same amount. It was within the last few years only that the officers had been called upon to pay rates. The navy officers did not pay rates, and the same exemption should be made in favour of the officers of the army.
 COLONEL DUNNE  drew attention to the case of barrack masters. They were a class of men who entered as barrack masters late in life because they had served in other capacities, and the difficulty of providing them with any remuneration when they left the barrack department was so great that they were obliged to retain in office men utterly incompetent. The number of superannuations in the War Department was, as he saw by a paper on the table, so considerable, that they must really greatly augment this Vote, and he trusted therefore it would be postponed.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he could see no possible advantage in such a postponement. The clerks in the War Department were superseded at their own request, and discussion would make no difference whatever in this Vote.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was surprised that the noble Lord had never heard of the complaints made on the subject, as the attention of every Secretary at War for the last few years had been called to them. He should move that the Chairman report Progress.
 COLONEL DUNNE  hoped that care would be taken that the same allowances, at least, would be held out to officers going into the militia as were given to officers going into the Voluuteers.
 THE MARCHESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it would be irregular to discuss the question now, but could assure the hon. and gallant Member that he was under a wrong impression as to the meaning of the circulars which had been issued on the subject.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that if the Government now insisted on taking the discussion on the War Office Vote, he should move that the Chairman report Progress. Only that morning four different Reports had been put into the hands of Members; and he defied any man, however conversant with the duties of the War Office, to tell what would be the effect of those Reports upon the clerks of that Department. If there was that commotion in the War Office which the noble Marquess alleged, it was the worst policy not to allow those gentlemen to be fairly heard. He was not sure that he might not entirely agree with the proposal of the Government; but, as those gentlemen said their interests were deeply affected by the plan, he appealed to the Government to postpone the discussion of those Reports till after Easter.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the Reports in question had only been delivered to him
 853
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that when these officers entered the army it was with the understanding that they were to have certain pay, certain allowances, and free quarters; but if they were made to pay taxes that could not be called free quarters. It was only in that day's paper that he saw eight or ten officers of Woolwich summoned for taxes and rates.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Gentleman who had moved the rejection of the Bill ought to have been the first to second the Motion for the second reading, for the measure was a very moderate one, and, he thought, calculated to advance the peculiar views of the hon. Member. To put down the assembly of loose men and looser women in a particular quarter of the town the Bill of last Session had been passed.
 867 The Times
 MAJOR ANSON  said, that he would undertake for every one officer which the hon. and gallant Member opposite could produce in proof of Canada being defensible to bring forward ten who would state that Canada was indefensible. In the remarks he was about to address to the House he should express this opinion. He had taken great pains to ascertain the views of experienced officers who had been out in Canada since the affair of the  Trent; 833 "If the proposal is carried out of fortifying Montreal and other places no advantage will be gained; as, though such fortifications may afford shelter, an invading army could have its own way in Canada, particularly in the west, by simply avoiding the few strongholds. I do think that the British soldiers, who in all parts of the world lace cheerfully danger and disease, would be placed in a false position, far apart, with no sup-
 834
 LORD ELCHO,  in withdrawing his Amendment, said, he desired to offer an explanation with respect to two points on which he had been misunderstood by some hon. Gentlemen. What he had said with regard to Quebec was that he thought this country ought to fortify it; and with regard to the honour of England, while admitting that England could not be too jealous of her honour, he nevertheless was of opinion that in fighting Canada's battle it was not necessary for the honour of England to fight it on Canadian soil.
 LORD ELCHO,  in rising to move an Address for Copy of Papers and Extracts of Correspondence relative to the proposed Canadian Defences and the share of the total cost which is to be respectively borne by Canada and the United Kingdom, said, that the very reasons which had been assigned by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Launceston (Mr. Haliburton) for asking him to postpone the Motion were those which had induced him to bring it forward. In doing so, he felt that some apology was necessary for again bringing the subject of the defence of Canada before the House. In what he was about to say he should be careful not to infringe those rules which had been wisely drawn up for the guidance of Members in debate, and would not quote from, or refer to, the speeches which were made in a previous discussion upon this subject, nor should be question the policy of the Vote to which the House came upon that occasion. He then voted in the majority, and he only regretted that the amount granted was not larger; but he then voted, as he believed most of the majority did, under a false impression. His only reason for renewing the debate upon this subject was that since the last discussion circumstances had been made public which indicated the existence on the other side of the Atlantic of a state of things which not only justified but rendered absolutely necessary their reconsideration of this very grave question. From the first he had entertained a very strong opinion with reference to the policy which the Government were pursuing towards Canada; and he could not but think that of the two courses which had been presented to the
 794 The Sun, "Quebec, March 10. "The news that £50,000 has been recommended to be voted by the Imperial Parliament for the defences of Quebec has been very ill received here. Mr. J. A. Macdonald stated in the House that there must he a mistake in the figures, and that £500,000 doubtless is intended. Upon the hon. Mr. Moore inquiring of the Government if the fortifications recommended by Colonel Jervois to be built at a cost of £1,343,000 were to be erected, and what proportion of the cost would fall on Canada, Sir E. T. Tache replied that he hoped all necessary fortifications would be built; but as the matter was now the subject of negotiation between the Imperial Government and that of
 795 Toronto Weekly Globe, "I may state that in the communications which have passed between the Government of Canada and the Imperial Government on the question of defence, the subject of what the colonies and the mother country should each do in this respect has been postponed..… Those points in reference to the general relations which the colonies should bear towards the mother country in the matter of defence have, owing to the anticipated delay (the Confederation) which may arise, assumed an appearance that requires the Government of this province to approach the Imperial Government in order to obtain a decision on this very important subject." "Any expenditure which Canada may feel called upon to assume must be on the understanding that this will be sustained by the Imperial credit.… We have a right to ask that the credit of the country should be sustained by the Empire." 796 "The Government feel that their responsibility extends much further than this Report of Colonel Jervois comprises. The responsibility rests on the Government of giving protection not to one part of the province or the other, but to every man in this country. It has been asked why no answer has been made to the Report. Answers have been made, and negotiations are going on, and it is because they are still going on that the Government are desirous of proceeding to Eng land to press them to an issue..… The Government take this ground—that the expense should be assumed in part by the Imperial Government, and under an Imperial guarantee. I have no hesitation in saying that difficulties have arisen in obtaining that guarantee, and unless these difficulties are removed the Government are not prepared to say that this million of dollars will be expended on these works." "Am I to understand that no part of this money will be expended until the Government meets again? Mr. Gait.—Certainly not." "The question of defence (said Mr. Gait) is not merely confined to the erection of certain works. That is only one means of defence…The great lakes will have to be defended. The defence of that portion of the country requires that gunboats should be placed on the lakes. Well, the province of Canada is not able, and cannot be expected, to place gunboats on those lakes. But the Empire is. All these points have to be met and considered with the Imperial Government. If for defence this country is to depend upon a petty Vote of £50,000 a year, then it may be better to adopt the words of one who is no longer among us, but who occupies a seat on the Bench, and say that the best armament for this country is no armament at all." "I do not understand this Vote as meaning that we are to expend one million dollars merely as a contribution towards any particular defen-
 797 The Times "Within the last three years the Canadian Parliament has voted nearly 2,000,000 dollars for our defence, and some 20,000 volunteers have enrolled and organized themselves more or less effectively; that is to say, we have done as much relatively to our population and financial resources as you would in England if you had organized 240,000 volunteers and voted £20,000,000 sterling for military purposes." "The extreme limit to which any one has ventured to go on this side of the Atlantic has been to propose an expenditure of 10,000,000 dollars on the organization of the militia, and even that only on the supposition that the Imperial Government would lend us the money at the lowest rate of interest at which they could obtain it themselves. And this is precisely equivalent on our part to your undertaking to organize 1,200,000 men, and to expend £100,000,000 sterling of money. It is
 798 799 The Morning Post "The discussion which is taking place in the British House of Commons concerning the defence of Canada attracts much interest and suggests a considerable amount of speculation on this side of the water. The conviction here is that Great Britain cannot hold Canada; and to throw up defences is an invitation, some urge, to war. Are these observations worth the consideration of Her Majesty's Government." 800 801 dictum
 LORD ELCHO  supported the second reading of the Bill, and said he had been in communication with his noble Friend Lord Spencer on the subject, and he thought that very great injustice would be done to Lord Spencer, and to his motives if the Bill were rejected, and not brought under the consideration of a rightly constituted Committee. He bad no interest in the scheme proposed by the Bill, and his evidence before the Committee would show that he Was perfectly impartial. His own sympathy had always been in favour of keeping this and other commons uninclosed. The mere post and rail might not be much obstruction, but there was a strong feeling against inclosures. He was authorized by Lord Spencer distinctly to state that he was prepared to allow the Bill to go before a Committee on the clear understanding that he gave up all idea of inclosing the Common, and that he would postpone the operation of the sale clauses so as to give time to ascertain whether a rate would be raised. He would, therefore, join in asking the hon. Member for Finsbury to withdraw his Amendment and allow the Bill to be read a second time.
 MR. H. COLE  said, he would beg to
 784
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  observed, that the Secretary for India had stated on a previous occasion that nothing would be charged to the Indian revenue for the objects of this Bill.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  thought the hon. Baronet near him (Sir George Bowyer) was justified in calling attention to a departure from the old practice in Committee; inasmuch as it now appeared that when asked upon this very clause what had become of certain moneys the Secretary of State could only tell the hon. Member who put the question that if he looked through the accounts for five years he would find it all entered in them. He hoped that the old practice in Committee would be adhered to in future.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he desired to draw the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board to the clause which he had moved in his (Lord Robert Cecil's) absence and in his behalf, but which he thought the right hon. Gentleman had materially altered. He did not complain of that, because the clause, as it originally stood, would not, perhaps, have been capable of practical administration. His desire was to place upon the statute book by means of that clause a declaration that the guardians of each parish were bound to admit the destitute poor for whose benefit the Act was passed, and that it should not be a matter of discretion whether they received them into the workhouse or not. If such a declaration were inserted in the Bill, then the authorities would be bound under a penalty to admit the poor man whenever he should apply; whereas, at present, public opinion was the only influence that wa3 brought to bear for the relief of the poor in the way which legislation prescribed. He did not mean to impugn the conduct of the guardians in the London parishes as a whole—he believed that they desired to do their duty—but he feared that a good deal of cruelty was practised by the inferior officials, and that there was great suffering among the poor of the metropolis in times of severe weather or distress in consequence of the hardheartedness of those in whose hands the practical administration of the law was placed. He had been informed on good authority that more than once poor persons bad been sent away from workhouses on the plea that the wards were full; and yet Returns had been made to the House of Commons from those very workhouses by which it appeared that not a single applicant had ever been rejected. He would not name the workhouses in question for this reason, that the charge depended upon the statement of poor persons, who, having left the neighbourhood, could not now be brought forward to verify it; but he had heard on authority which he could not question that those persons were trustworthy, honest men. What he desired now was to bring this failure in the operation of the law—and a very serious one it was—under the notice of the right hon. Gentleman with the view that the attention
 860
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that when he opposed the Vote late the other night he then felt, as he felt still, that, however irregular the proposal of the Government might be, it was impossible to resist it without inconvenience to the public service. He had no wish to carry his opposition any further; but he earnestly appealed to right hon. Gentlemen on the Treasury Bench to take some steps to avoid placing the House in what it must feel to be the humiliating position of professing to regulate an expenditure which it was not allowed to discuss in detail. If the effect of the Report of the Committee, as stated by the First Lord of the Treasury the other night, was that Votes on account must take place of that enormous amount, because the balances left upon the Votes of the previous year had to be paid back into the Exchequer, then there would be no other means of restoring regularity to the financial business of the House than by fixing the financial year to begin on the 1st of July instead of on the 1st of April. If the present system continued, they would have large Votes on account for all the item3 of charge, without giving the House an opportunity of determining whether the expenditure was politic or not.
 MR. AYRTON  hoped the right hon. Gentleman would not give power to the police to give certain tradesmen liberty to keep open beyond the usual hours. This was a point for the consideration of the magistrates only. It was impossible to open certain houses for the accommodation of certain classes—if open to any one, they would be open to all. He thought it would be better to repeal the Bill of last Session altogether rather than to amend it in the way proposed.
 MR. FINLAY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the two works were entirely distinct, the  State Papers Hertslet's Commercial Treaties State Papers, resumés 791 s. s.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that when he listened to the speech of the noble Lord who made this Motion (Lord Elcho) he had been under the impression that the noble Lord was asking the House to re-consider its Vote on this subject the other day upon the ground that the Canadians were not so ready as we had supposed them to be to take part in defending their own country. He understood, however, that this was a wrong impression and that the noble Lord did not wish the House to re-consider this Vote, and desired we should proceed at once with the fortifications at Quebec, but was of opinion that we should not encourage the Canadians to take the further steps we were then anticipating they would take for their own defence. Now, if this were the noble Lord's view, it was surely an inconsistent and an indefensible one; because if we were not to encourage the Canadians to contribute to their own defence,  cui bono 815 816 817 818
 MR. BUXTON  said, he found that as a matter of form he could not move the Amendment of which he had given notice. He could entirely confirm what had fallen from the noble Lord as to the opinions of military men out of doors on this matter. Only the other day a military engineer of considerable authority told him that it would be impossible for us to resist an invasion of Canada by the proposed fortifications, la giving notice of his
 805 806 "Difficulties had arisen on that point, and unless those difficulties should be removed he was not prepared to say that this million of dollars would be expended on the proposed works." "These and other points must be discussed with the Imperial Government, so that Canada may not be thrust into a position which it would only be an idle sacrifice for her to try to endure." 807 808 809 "With that stern joy that warriors feel "In foemen worthy of their steel." 810 811
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he was glad that the noble Lord was satisfied with the course which he had pursued on the previous day, because, according to the noble Lord's admission, he had accepted the practicable portion of the Amendment suggested by the noble Lord, and omitted only that portion which, according to the noble Lord's own statement, it would have been impossible to carry into effect. The noble Lord said he desired to put on the statute book a declaration that the guardians were bound to relieve every destitute person who applied for relief. That duty existed now. By the state of the law at present the guardians were obliged to admit everybody seeking relief, and the Poor Law Board already had power to enforce this course upon them, as far as they had any authority at all to interfere in the proceedings of boards of guardians. The noble Lord had very fairly admitted that he had no evidence to prove that the guardians had neglected their duty in this
 861
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that Indian pay and allowances were given to officers in consideration of the danger which they incurred and the hardships which they suffered while serving in India, and he did not think that it would be fair that the India revenue should be charged with extra pay for a gentleman who was amusing himself in London. As to the second Question of the hon. Baronet, the regulations in force in India were the same
 793
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  assured the hon. Member that if he would look hack to past accounts he would find the sums received from the sale of the properties mentioned duly credited to the Indian Government. The object of the Bill was not to purchase a site, but to take compulsory powers with respect to the land required for the building.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he did not anticipate any loss, but if there were, it would fall on the revenues of India.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the object of the Bill was to obtain possession of property in order to widen the street, and the surplus land would probably be sufficient to meet all the expense.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD,  in reply, said, the Prize Rolls for Her Majesty's 51st Foot had been sent to Chelsea Hospital for payment. The rolls of the 102nd late 1st Madras Fusileers, had been received, and the prize money was now in distribution; the remaining Prize Rolls of the Madras portion of the force were expected shortly.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that when the failure of the mission that had been sent to Bhootan was known, three courses were suggested for the Government to follow. One was permanent occupation of the country; the second was a temporary occupation; and the third was to take possession of a small portion of the country, including the passes leading into the hills, through which the plundering bands came down into the plains. He was averse to a permanent occupation of the whole country, and equally so to a temporary occupation, because he did not see how it would be possible to withdraw when we had once taken possession, and therefore the Government of India and
 782
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that although he entirely agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) towards the close of his remarks, he could not concur in his earlier observations. The first charge which the right hon. Baronet made against the Government he should leave to be dealt with by his noble Friend (the Marquess of Hartington); but this he must say, that whatever military advice Her Majesty's Government might have received from Colonel Jervois, Colonel Gordon, or others, which they had not produced, they were in possession of none which was inconsistent with those opinions of Colonel Jervois which they had laid before the House. The right hon. Baronet made a second charge which had been answered over and over again, and accused the Government of proposing to contribute no more than the paltry sum of £50,000 towards the defences of Canada. Only the sum of £50,000 was asked for this year, because, according to the professional advice given to the Government, that was the largest sum which could properly be expended upon Quebec and Point Levi during the next twelve months. The right hon. Baronet did not quite correctly represent the substance of what was said by that eminent person Mr. John A. Macdonald in the debate of the 7th of March. That gentleman supposed that the sum voted was £30,000, and not having heard the explanations of Her Majesty's Government, he expressed surprise at the smallness of the amount, and suggested that it must be a mistake for £300,000. Oddly enough Mr. John A. Macdonald had hit upon the exact amount which the Government were asking the House to vote—namely, £200,000 for works at Quebec, and £100,000 towards their armament. The taking of a small sum this year was merely a question of time and arrangement. But Mr. John A. Macdonald went on to say that—
 "He had every reason to believe that these negotiations would result most happily in defences being provided which would secure the protection of Canada without pressing too heavily on the resources of the country." 840 841 842
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, I am going to offer only a very few observations, as I am under the impression that it is not the wish of the House that the debate should be much longer continued—indeed, after the able speech just addressed to us by my right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) there is not much to be said upon the question raised by the noble Lord. My noble Friend (Lord Elcho) has entirely disclaimed the wish that we should recede from the decision to which we came in the former debate upon this subject, and I think that the gallant Gentleman opposite (Sir John Hay) also told us that in his opinion Quebec ought to be fortified. But my noble Friend says that on the former occasion he voted under a different impression from that which recent intelligence is calculated to make. But if my noble Friend is satisfied that Quebec should be defended, and does not wish that we should reverse our former decision, what does it signify under what impression he gave his vote on the occasion referred to? It is a settled point, then, that Quebec should be fortified—that, at all events, is undisputed; and when my noble Friend says that he gave his vote the other night under the impression that arrangements had been made with the Canadian Government for the defence of the frontier, I must be permitted to say that neither my noble Friend who moved the Vote (the Marquess of Hartington) nor myself said anything to create that misapprehension, and the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Bentinck) who moved the rejection of the Vote commented upon the fact that no such statement had been made on the part of Her Majesty's Government. My noble Friend, however, brings forward this Motion on account of intelligence which has reached us since the last discussion. But I should have thought if there was anything which made it demonstrably unfit to bring forward this Motion, it was that intelligence. Why, what is the intelligence? Is it that the Canadian Government have prorogued their Parliament, and have deputed four Members to come over here in order to confer with Her Majesty's Government on this matter. But does my noble Friend suppose that we are going to
 819 "I trust the taking of this Vote—I speak of the million of dollars on account for defence—will show to the people of England that now, when the danger is before us, we are ready to bear our share of it; that we clothe our Government with power to ask then to unite their resources with our resources, and with these means, united in the defence of this country, I am perfectly certain that we can resist any attack that can be made upon us, from whatever quarter it may come." 820
 MR. CARDWELL  wished to say, in explanation, that he never said anything intended to confirm the impression that any agreement had been made between us and the Canadian Government with respect to these defences. He always understood that we acted on our own responsibility; and when the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) put questions on this subject he (Mr. Cardwell) stated twice, in order that there might be no mistake, that no despatch had been received which would justify him in giving a positive assurance on that point.
 MR. CARDWELL  thought it would often be extremely inconvenient to lay the Estimates so early on the table. The present proceedings originated in a reform resulting from an inquiry made by the Public Moneys Committee, and when the practice was adopted it was clearly understood that the Vote on account would not preclude discussion when the remainder of the sum was asked for.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that the Patents which had been issued by the Patent Office were now undergoing careful examination with a view of submitting a case for the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown. It was the intention of the Government most carefully to examine the late decision of the Privy Council before any further Patents were issued.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that the Government had not received any information of the sort. The only information which had reached them was the telegram which had appeared in the morning papers.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that there ought to be some expression" of opinion on this matter by the legal advisers of the
 787
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that as the legal advisers of the Government were absent, perhaps the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Board of Trade would give the House the benefit of his opinion. The right hon. Gentleman's name was on the back of the Bill.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, that having sat in the Committee upon this Bill, he had formed the highest opinion of the motives of Lord Spencer in bringing it forward, and fully believed Lord Spencer was convinced that he had a full and good title to the Common. At the same time, however, he thought the noble Lord had been badly advised. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), who was always prepared to give an  ex cathedra 779
 COLONEL EDWARDS  had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of the hon.
 865
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the publications entitled the  State Papers Hertslet's Commercial Treaties. State Papers State Papers s. s. State Papers State Papers. 790 Hertslet's Commercial Treaties
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the Government intend to take any steps to amend the Patents of the Colonial Bishops, defining their jurisdiction?
 MR. BAGWELL  said, it was very desirable that the Attorney General for England should give his opinion upon this question, which had created a large amount of fear in Ireland, where railways were required, but where they would not be made if the law should continue to be that shareholders must be held to be liable beyond the amount of their shares.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that as the House was of opinion that Canada should be fortified, the sooner the fortifications were commenced the better. The hon. and gallant Major who recently spoke (Major Anson) seemed to doubt the possibility of sending out armour-clad vessels in pieces; but such a proceeding was very practicable. When a difficulty arose some twenty-five years ago in the East Indies with respect to Russia, he was instructed by the Government to send out several armed vessels in pieces, and they arrived at their destination, and were afloat on the Euphrates before people in this country knew that they had been ordered. There was no doubt, then, that it was possible to send out armour-clad vessels in pieces, and put them together in Canada. He had sent out a vessel to Savannah in pieces, and had no doubt that it had since been adopt-
 846 Scorpion, Wyvern, Research, Enterprise. Viper Vixen,
 MR. LOCKE  said, that having been Chairman of the Committee referred to by the noble Lord (Viscount Bury), he thought it necessary to make one or two observations upon what had fallen from the noble Lord. He denied that he had given a partial judgment in this case. He had failed on this as on former occasions to understand exactly what it was the noble Lord meant. The noble Lord had appeared in the Committee with a large brief, and conducted the examination of the witnesses, prompted by Lord Spencer, very much as if he were Lord Spencer's counsel. Lord Spencer's solicitor gave to his (Mr. Locke's) mind the most ridiculous evidence with reference to Lord Spencer's rights, and in addition the Committee were asked to receive the opinions of counsel, without the cases being put in upon which those opinions were founded. The Committee offered to receive them, provided the cases were put in; but the noble Lord declined to do so, and the Committee declined to receive the opinion without the case. That was the course that had been pursued throughout. He was willing to have voted for the second reading of the Bill if he could have placed any reliance upon the noble Lord's (Viscount Bury) statements; but having listened attentively to him, he was unable to discover that he pledged himself to anything. It was said that Lord Spencer was giving up a great deal, but after all the attention he had paid to the evidence he was unable to find it out; and he confessed that after applying his mind to the subject he honestly believed that Lord Spencer intended to retain those acres which the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) pointed out, and what the noble Lord intended to do with them was best known to himself. The case had been mixed up from beginning to end in the most extraordinary and complicated manner, and no Member of the Committee could for five minutes together clearly see what the noble Lord intended to do. Lord
 777
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought the House was at present incapable of giving any opinion on this matter. They were totally unfit to decide the question, and ought to send it to a proper tribunal. The noble Lord had unwisely entered into the matter of the Bill. They had nothing to do with it. In common sense and common decency they were bound to send it to the ordinary tribunal for such inquiries—a Select Committee. He knew nothing of Lord Spencer, but private rights could not be dealt with in an off hand manner.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the hon. Member for Finsbury did not pretend to give additional means of refreshment to particular classes, but merely allowed the authorities to extend the hour for closing refreshment houses.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  thought that disagreeing with the Lords' Amendments would tend rather to complicate the question, because the settlement would be thrown over the Easter holidays, and before the House met more than one railway company in Ireland might be made bankrupt.
 MR. LOWE  said, he was afraid the House might be led unintentionally to do some injustice in this matter; he therefore begged their attention while he very briefly stated what he believed to be the facts of the case. Lord Spencer was the lord of the manor of Wimbledon, and the Common belonged to him in fee simple, subject to the rights of commoners, and subject to certain roads and rights of way. Wimbledon was resorted to by the public for purposes of amusement, but the lord of the manor could by his mere will exclude the public from it. In this position he offered to surrender the use of 688 acres of this valuable suburban land, of which he was the owner in fee simple, subject only to the rights he had described. He wished the subject should be inquired into by the Committee on Open Spaces. That Committee had inquired into it, and the I Committee had decided by the casting I vote of the Chairman—["No, no!"]—that this Common should not be enclosed, and that the common rights ought not to be extinguished. Surely, when a gentleman came forward and offered to give up 688 acres of valuable land for the amusement of the public, it was for the House to inquire whether it was desirable that the offer should be accepted. Surely it should not be rejected without inquiry? The hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) said the Committee had reported on the case; but he had omitted to mention that they reported with reference to this particular case of Wimbledon Common that the Act of Merton, which had been in force for 630 years, should be repealed. That Act said that a lord of the manor might enclose, if he could do ss without prejudice to the rights of commoners; and to punish Lord Spencer for offering 688 acres of his land for public amusement, the Committee proposed not only to repudiate the offer but to deprive
 778 animus,
 MR. TORRENS  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the works at Port Patrick Harbour are still going on, or whether they are in abeyance; in the event of their being stopped, when it is intended to resume them, and when it is supposed they may be completed; and whether he will state what sum up to the present date has been expended on the Port Patrick Harbour works, and what further amount it is estimated may be incurred for their completion?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he did not understand his noble Friend (Lord R. Cecil) to wish now to stop the Vote on account, but to urge that in future years, when Votes on account were likely to be taken before Easter—a practice which, though resulting from the change that had taken place in regard to the balances, had yet put the House in a somewhat new position—the Government should lay on the table the particulars relating to those Votes.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the question being somewhat of a legal character, he was not the proper authority, but as he had been appealed to he had no objection to give his opinion on it. As he understood, the shareholders in the Irish railways in question took their shares with limited liability, which was the undoubted law at the time they took them, and therefore they could not be called on for anything beyond the amount of the shares. That was the position in which they stood in 1857, when the Bankruptcy (Ireland) Act passed for the purpose of providing for the winding-up bankrupt companies. Railways were not excepted from that Act, and it had been held, from certain language in
 788 ex post facto ex post facto
 MR. MILNER GIBSON,  in reply, said, the works at Port Patrick Harbour were going on, and it was believed that they would be completed by October next. It was believed also that steamers would be able to use the harbour. The sum expended up to the 1st of March last was £35,733. A further expenditure would be necessary to complete the works of £9,882, and in addition to that there was a claim made by a contractor which, though not admitted, might be the subject of litigation, and which might lead, if the decision were against the Government, to a further payment of £5,000 or £6,000.
 MR. HALIBURTON  said, he rose to appeal to the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) to postpone the Motion upon this subject of which he had given notice. A deputation from Canada was at present on its way to this country, and probably one of the objects of its visit was to make some arrangements with reference to this very question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the gallant Officer seemed to think that some sacred principle was involved in this matter of rates, and that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had been guilty of some disrespect to those gentlemen in saying that their case ought to be considered rather as that of civilians than as that of officers of the army. He abided by that opinion; as an establishment like that of Chelsea Hospital was not connected with any military duty. It was not a case of principle at all, but one simply of so much money. If the salaries were too small let them be re-considered.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the term "old practice" seemed to imply an innovation on the part of the present Chairman of Ways and Means. From his own experience he could only state that he was not aware of any innovation. The practice had always been to adapt the rate of progress with the Bill to the importance of the Bill itself. He himself had introduced a Bill consolidating all the laws relating to the duties upon spirits, which contained 400 clauses, which Bill passed through Committee in five minutes. Mem-
 863
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  declined to allow that it was a question of free quarters at all.
 MR. COX,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, complained that he had been represented as desiring to re-instate the orgies of the Haymarket. No man was better pleased than himself with the result of the Public House Closing Act upon the neighbourhood in question; it had put down scenes which were a disgrace to the metropolis; still he would again assert that the measure was directed against that locality, and he was borne out in this view by the language of the Home Secretary in introducing the Bill. When that speech was made every Member understood the right hon. Gentleman to apply his observations to the Haymarket and Coventry Street. Yet, while he freely admitted that the result of the Act had been beneficial in those quarters, it had also inflicted very great detriment and injury upon many of Her Majesty's sub-
 864
 MR. COX,  in moving that the Bill be read the second time that day six months, said, that the Committee on Open Spaces near the metropolis had gone fully and fairly into the subject referred to by the noble Lord (Viscount Bury), and had decided that it was not expedient that Wimbledon Common should be fenced round or inclosed. The noble Lord said that Lord Spencer would be willing to do away with the fence, but still he asked the House to read a second time a Bill which gave power to fence and inclose. Moreover, the Bill would extinguish the rights of common, and if those rights were put an end to, then the public would cease to have any right over the Common. He opposed that scheme, not in the interest of any villa owners, but in behalf of the three-and-a-half millions of persons living in the metropolis. Not a single witness came before the Committee who did not answer that from time immemorial the public had gone over that land when and where they liked, without interruption from anybody. The land was thereby brought within the description of a village green, and Mr. Win-grove Cooke did not deny that in that case it was out of the power of the lord of the manor to inclose or touch it. He asked the House, therefore, to support its own Committee, and reject the second reading of the Bill.
 MR ALDERMAN ROSE  thought he was speaking for the majority of the Committee when he said they were not prepared to offer any opposition to the second reading of the Bill. He believed, when the Bill went before a Select Committee, there would be formed a very different impression of the motives or public spirit of the noble Lord who had brought the measure forward than was now entertained. He thought that the further the inquiry was pushed the more clearly it would appear that Lord Spencer was not giving up any rights for
 780
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he very much feared that the effect of the debate would be very mischievous. Upon a recent occasion the House came to the resolution that Canada should be fortified; and the country was thus pledged to the policy that she would exert all her power to defend Canada in the event of its being invaded; and he thought that the Canadians had shown an earnest desire upon their part to prepare the necessary means for their own defence. This debate, however, would have a mischievous and depressing effect, because it would create in Canada the feeling that there was a great uncertainty as to what our future policy would be. We had ourselves made a great demand on the patriotism of the country to supplement our regular army in the case of emergency, and having raised a large
 829
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that half a century's military experience had given him Borne ideas on military matters, though they might not be worth much. He had asked himself three questions on this subject of the defences of Canada. The first question was whether it was possible to defend a country like Canada, which was larger than Europe, and possessed a frontier of 1,500 miles, had an overwhelmingly powerful neighbour, and was far distant from this country. The second question was, whether it was politic to defend Canada. And the third, whether we should be justified, so far as the interests of the great mass of the people of this country were concerned, in involving them and their children in prospective responsibilities, which must greatly enhance the burdens this country has to bear. With regard to the first question, there was no doubt in his mind
 812 "That efficient communication should be established with the western districts; that the country between Lake St. Louis and Lake Ontario should he protected by naval in combination with military means that a naval depot should be provided at Kingston, which place should be fortified so as to form a secure harbour for gunboats on Lake Ontario. With the naval command of that lake troops acting for the defence of the western peninsular of Canada might, if overpowered, fall back upon its shore at Toronto, where, if proper works were constructed, they might act in conjunction with the naval force for the defence of that position, either until reinforcements arrived from other
 813 "I regard the works for the defence of Montreal and Quebec as being of the most pressing importance. I estimate the cost of those for Quebec at £200,000; those for Montreal at £443,000; and that the armaments for the works at those places will cost about £100,000. The works of fortification recommended at Kingston, Toronto, and Hamilton will cost about £500,000, and the armaments for those places about £100,000." The Times 814
 COLONEL SYKES  said, it was clear that there ought not to be one law for England and another for Ireland in this matter. He thought it desirable that the Government should declare its view on the subject.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to put a question to Mr. Attorney General, but in order to make it intelligible he would state the circumstances which had rendered it necessary. A mercantile house at Ningpo had long been in the habit of sending up the river a boat laden with dollars for the purchase of silk. During the occupancy of that region by the Taepings the boat had never been molested, but lately the boat was attacked and plundered by Europeans in the Imperial service. The men were traced—one to Shanghai and two to Hong Kong, where they were seized and committed to prison. Mr. Kent, the merchant, now informed his partner in this country that the Judge at Hong Kong had released the prisoners, upon the ground that there was no law to punish Europeans who committed crimes in the interior of China. He therefore wished to know from Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is true that the state of the Law is such that Europeans may with impunity commit robberies or murders in China?
 MR. VANSITTART  observed, that although the Secretary of State for India told them that the clause only gave power to purchase land, yet there was a charge for the cost of such land upon the Indian revenues.
 MR. VANSITTART  observed, that the
 862
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to an important Amendment which had
 786
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought it a little extraordinary that when so important a legal question as this was being discussed the legal advisers of the Government were not present. He did not, however, think their advice very material, because in his view there could be no two opinions about the matter, for the simple reason that if the holders of Irish railway shares were made liable to the full extent of their property in case of the bankruptcy of the railway company, no one would hold shares in them, and thus railway enterprise in Ireland would be put an end to altogether. If such a question arose in respect to railways in England, the House would be up in arms, the Standing Orders would be suspended, and they would not separate until the matter had been placed on a proper footing. It would be an instance of inexcusable supineness on the part of the Government, if there was not an immediate expression of opinion on the question.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  rose to object to the system of the Chairman in calling out simply the number of the clauses, instead of following the old practice of reading the marginal notes of each clause.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  disclaimed any intention to impute blame to the Chairman, who had only followed the practice of his predecessors; but he still maintained that the old and the proper practice was for the Chairman to read the marginal note of each clause. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said that the rate of progress of a Bill depended upon the importance of the Bill; but that was not a question that ought to be left to the discretion of any officer of the House, however high his authority might be.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought that the scheme embodied in the Bill ought not to be discussed or settled by a large popular Assembly, but that it ought to be referred to a Committee, for the purpose of being subjected to that research and legal acumen which were always necessary in cases involving questions of common rights and rights of lords of manors. It would, therefore, be very imprudent and injudicious on the part of the House were they to refuse their assent to the second reading in order that the Bill might be referred to a competent tribunal. The Committee had reported that the Statute of Merton ought to be repealed. Now he did not believe that there were ten Members of the House who had ever read that statute.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the attention of the Government was directed to this subject by a statement which appeared in one of the daily papers on the 29th of March. Instructions were immediately sent by telegraph to Sir Andrew Buchanan, at St. Petersburg, to make without delay the fullest inquiries into the subject, and to send from time to time all the information he can obtain as to the origin, nature, and progress of the disease, and the mode of treatment of it at St. Petersburg. Instructions were also sent to Her Majesty's Representatives at Berlin, Vienna, Copenhagen, and Stockholm, and to our Consuls at the Baltic ports, to send full information as to the disease, should it appear in any of those parts of Europe. A medical officer has also been directed to proceed at once to St. Petersburg to investigate and report upon the disease, and the officers of Customs have been directed to exercise the utmost vigilance in the examination of vessels coming from the Baltic. The information we have as yet received has been by telegraph, but Sir Andrew Buchanan says that he has forwarded by post a printed medical report on the disease, which is stated to be a fever new in Russia, but not unknown in other parts of
 785
 SIR GEORGE GREY  should be sorry to sanction any measure which would materially interfere with the operation of an Act which had worked so beneficially as the one passed last year for the closing of public-houses within certain hours. He must observe that the beneficial operation of that Act bad not been confined to the Haymarket. There were places in the East End also in which much disorder had prevailed, and the Act had worked well in that quarter of the metropolis as well as in the West End. The hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Lawson) appeared to think that refreshment houses ought not to have been included in the Bill of last year; but if the hon. Gentleman was in possession of the facts which had been laid before him in respect of many of those houses, he might, perhaps, be disposed to change his opinion. He was bound, however, to say that he had received many representations of the inconvenience felt by a portion of the community, especially persons having business in the markets of the metropolis, in consequence of the operation of the Act; and he thought those persons were entitled to have their case fairly considered. He believed that, without injuring the beneficial operation of the Act, or destroying any of the restraints imposed on disorderly houses, it might be possible to effect the object which his hon. Friend the
 868
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is necessary to retain the present Regulation by which Officers serving in India forfeit their Indian allowance if they quit Asia and come to Europe while they are on furlough of six months; and whether he will direct that where noncommissioned officers of regiments in India are sent home on the completion of their first period of service, and others are appointed in their places, the acting noncommissioned officers shall receive the rates of pay due to the rank they filled from the date of their appointment, without waiting until the discharge of the men in England is notified? Although the Regulation mentioned in his first Question might have been a proper one when the journey from India to this country occupied six months, he did not think that it was reasonable to retain it now that the transit could be made in five weeks, so that an officer having six months leave might come home and spend three or four months of it with his family. At least the Commander-in-Chief in India ought to have power to permit officers to come home if he thought proper. The subject to which his second Question referred was a mere matter of justice. He had received a letter from an officer commanding a regiment in India, who informed him that he had under his orders ten acting sergeants and corporals who would not receive the pay belonging to their respective ranks until the discharge of the non-commissioned officers whom they had succeeded had been sent to India. He thought that this was very unfair, and hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would promise that the system should be changed.
 SIR JOHN HAY,  in seconding the
 802 803 804
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, although the hon. and gallant Gentleman who has just spoken is a young Member of this House and is a young officer—one, however, who has gained reputation in every quarter of the world—it is impossible to deny that whatever falls from his lips on a subject of this nature is entitled to respectful attention. The impression made upon my mind by his statements this evening is to strengthen the feelings I before entertained, that we have great reason to complain of Her Majesty's Government in relation to this delicate and difficult question. In the first place, so far as I am informed, we have reason to complain of the manner in which they have produced the Report of Colonel Jervois. The hon. and gallant Member has adverted to the Report which he supposes—for he goes no further—has been made by Colonel Gordon and Colonel Wetherall. I do not know whether there is such a Report—at all events,
 835 Trent 836 837 bonâ fide 838
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been directed to the disease now prevailing in Russia and some parts of Prussia; and whether the Government propose to take any steps to ascertain the true nature of the disease, and to avert its introduction into this country?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the local authorities of St. Paul's, Covent Garden, dreaded the public-houses in that place being opened while those in the surrounding neighbourhood were closed, as the consequence would be that all the improper characters would congregate there.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, the effect of taking the Vote and the discussion that night, with insufficient information, so far from quieting the commotion in the War Office, would only increase the already prevalent feeling of discontent, besides which some other Returns bearing on the subject for which he had moved had not yet been laid on the table of the House. He, therefore, thought it would be advantageous to the public service that the Vote should be postponed.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked whether the Government would postpone the War Office Vote till after Easter. If money were required in the meantime, he supposed there would be no difficulty in obtaining a small Vote on account.
 MR. LAWSON  opposed the Motion. The Bill of last Session had proved itself a most useful measure, and had effected a wonderful improvement in the appearance of the streets of London at night. The Vestry of St. Paul's, Covent Garden, had petitioned against the Bill. There were thirty-one towns under the operation of the Act, besides the metropolis, with a population of upwards of 2,500,000, and the Act worked well in all of them; and he, therefore, thought that any alteration would be imprudent. The hon. Member might have established some cases of grievance, but they were entirely local—confined to the metropolis. What  The Times employés
 MR. LAWSON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 VISCOUNT BURY,  in moving that the Bill be now read the second time, said, that before the establishment of the National Rifle Association and the establishment of the Volunteers, Wimbledon Common was little better than an undrained swamp; it was not much frequented, and was in a very neglected state. After that time, Lord Spencer, who was the lord of the manor, having given leave to certain Rifle corps to errect butts upon the Common, and to the National Rifle Association to hold their annual meetings there, a great improvement was made in the condition of the Common. The inhabitants of the villas surrounding the Common viewed those meetings of the Volunteers as an encroachment upon their privacy, and at first offered considerable objections to their presence on the Common. But ultimately these objections were considerably weakened, as it was found that practically the presence of the Volunteers was rather advantageous than otherwise. The National Rifle Association laid out large sums for drainage and other improvements, so that the Common presented a far more agreeable aspect than it had ever done before. But the question as to the rights of the lord of the manor, and those
 770 771 772 773 prima facie 774
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that a Vote on account precluded the most detailed discussion by the House of each head of charge to which the Vote applied. A Vote on account being only a portion of the total sum to be voted, enough remained under each head to enable the House to discuss in the greatest detail the separate items under those heads, and to atop, if it thought fit, any further expenditure upon them. Whenever the House, on going into
 852
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that as he was Chairman of the Select Committee to which this Bill was referred, he would state to the House as clearly as he could what took place. In the first place, his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets had imported into this discussion a great deal of matter of which he (Mr. Headlam) did not think that that House could take cognizance. The hon. Gentleman had stated certain circumstances against the promoters of the Bill—namely, that they were not a company, and that they had made no deposit. Now, although the City of London opposed this Bill before the Committee, no objection on that ground was taken by them against it, and the Committee had every reason to suppose that this company was constituted in the regular form, that everything requested by the House in the nature of deposit had been performed, and certainly nothing took place before the Committee to lead them to suppose that any irregularity of that description had taken place. His hon. Friend supported the Bill, and he (Mr. Headlam) fully expected that he would have given them every assistance afterwards in passing it. He voted with the Committee on the preamble of the Bill, and he also voted with them, and they carried unanimously the Report which spoke in the most favourable terms of the plan now submitted to the House. When that particular Article, No. 15, came before the Committee no objection whatever was taken to it, nor was the attention of the Committee particularly directed to it, and it was only after the Committee had passed the agreement that his hon. Friend for the first time brought up the two clauses which were upon the paper, and which the Committee by a majority of five to two rejected, and, as he(Mr. Headlam) thought, rightly rejected. He now understood the object of his hon. Friend to be to get those two clauses which the Committee rejected inserted in the Bill. The first clause related to an auditor to be appointed by the Metropolitan Board of Works with extraordinary powers, the practical effect of which would have been that although that Board declined the responsibility of having a director, they would have had an auditor who might have objected to almost anything done by that company. He (Mr.
 885
 MR. HENLEY  said, the statement of the right hon. Gentleman seemed to confirm the necessity for postponing this Bill till after Easter, because from that it seemed there was a section in the agreement—Article 15—which was really objectionable and ought to be altered. In the meantime parties might lay their heads together and put the contract into an unobjectionable shape. He believed the general feeling was in favour of the Bill; but the House had to deal with a very grave question which the right hon. Gentleman had not touched. He said the Metropolitan Board of Works, who represented the ratepayers of the metropolis, were parties to the bargain, and the pro-meters of the Bill were the other parties; but the right hon. Gentleman did not tell them whether it was within the competence of the Metropolitan Board of Works, under the Acts of 1855 and 1858, to enter into speculative works, intrusted in the first instance to somebody else, to fertilize some I barren waste bordering on the German Ocean; and if they had not strictly that power the ratepayers of the metropolis might be called upon by the arbitrary fiat of the Secretary of State to recoup to these speculators no less a sum than perhaps £3,000,000. How was that to be raised? It seemed to him that the Board of Works had no power to enter into these speculations, and bind the ratepayers to recoup the money, and the right hon. Gentleman the Chairman of the Committee had not ventured to say whether it was strictly within their power or not. Then it should be remembered that the  Gazette 886
 MR. GORE LANGTON  said, as his name was on this Bill, he had thought it
 888
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that the Bill had been deferred until the Reports of the Inspectors of the Fisheries had been presented to the House. Those Reports had been printed and would at once be put into circulation, and the Bill would be introduced immediately after Easter.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that no obstacle had been thrown in the way of the scheme of the Metropolitan Board of Works on the part of the Crown as regarded the rights of the Crown in the Park. It was true that the Metropolitan Board of Works had, from motives of economy, preferred the inferior plan of prolonging the narrow street to the better plan of widening Park Lane, and thus providing for the use of the public a broad and spacious thoroughfare. Yet he thought the Board deserved all credit for having recognized the responsibility that rested on them of doing something to remove the extraordinary inconvenience of the present state of Park Lane. It was, therefore, intimated to the Metropolitan Board of Works, that if they succeeded in passing this Bill through both Houses of Parliament, they would receive the consent of the Crown to their making a road through Hamilton Gardens, which is a portion of the Park. If the hon. Member had read the Report of the Referees he would have seen that the legal estate in land had not been given to the Board but was retained in the Crown.
 MR. CARD WELL : Sir, the sum of £300,000, to which the noble Lord has referred, is made up of two sums—£200,000 for the defence of Quebec, and £100,000 for the armament of Quebec and Montreal. When we communicated
 893 "To proceed to England to confer with Her Majesty's Government (among other things) upon the arrangements necessary for the defence of Canada in the event of war arising with the United States, and the extent to which the same should be shared between Great Britain and Canada."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he should be willing to accede to the hon. Gentleman's suggestion if it should be consistent with the progress of public business, but he would undertake not to proceed with the particular clauses to which the hon. Gentleman wished to call attention.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that persons licensed to let horses for hire did not pay Assessed Taxes upon their horses as well, and it would not be reasonable to exempt them from the payment of the Post Horse Duty, which was much heavier than the Assessed Tax, because they lent their horses gratuitously for six days. The Question of granting any abatement from the amount of the license duty proportionate to what was allowed in the case of persons liable to the Assessed Tax was a very fair Question to be considered.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he wished to reply to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in respect to one point in which he thought the right hon. Gentleman had fallen into an error in consequence of having misconceived the intentions of his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick. The Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to be impressed with the idea that the Irish Members were asking for this measure as a boon to their country. That they utterly denied. They were asking for no boon, but as the highways of the country were the rights of the subjects, they asserted that it was as much the duty of the Government to protect the subject in the enjoyment of the means of travelling as in any other privilege that necessarily belonged to him. There could be no doubt that this was one of the most important questions affecting Ireland that could be brought under consideration at the present moment. The question had been introduced to the House in a most lucid and unanswerable speech by his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell). Under the present railway system the people of Ireland were almost deprived of the benefits to which they were entitled of travelling from place to place. It was proved that in Belgium persons were conveyed by railway at about one-third of the rate charged for the same distance in Ireland; nevertheless, the Belgian proprietors had much larger profits. The history of our railways in England proved the same fact. Some time ago, when a great competition existed, the London and North Western Railway Company reduced their fares for a distance of 340 miles from 60s. first-class, and 40 s. s. d. s. s. 924 s. d. s. 925
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, When the repairs to the Landing Pier at Holyhead will be finished, whether the works recommended by the Committee will be
 945
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he thought it was not fair to bring on these Estimates at that time of night (a quarter-past eleven), as several of the items would involve considerable discussion, and the money was not wanted. He had no objection to the first two items—for wages at home and abroad—but he appealed to the noble Lord to institute a proper investigation, and have a final settlement of the wages question. From different classes of workmen in the Royal yards there came constant applications for advances. The joiners were greatly dissatisfied at their rate of wages. Several of the workmen were discontented, and with great reason, for the factory men, for example, got an increase of 55 per cent in their wages on transferring their services to private establishments. The ropemakers and others were sent adrift at short notice, and without means of support for themselves and families. He asked the noble Lord to treat them all in a generous spirit. Although he represented a dockyard borough, he would not bring forward the case of the workmen if he did not conscientiously believe that it was based on good grounds.
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, that he had received a letter stating that workmen in the dockyards received half-pay in case of injuries, but that in cases of sickness no allowance was made. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers) had, however, stated that the men received payments during sickness. He had also been informed that the hon. Gentleman's statement regarding the number of superannuated men was not fairly estimated, because the total number of workmen as
 947
 MR. LAIRD  said, he did not believe that the  employés s. s. s. s. s. s.
 MR. AYRTON  said, when he regarded the extravagant expenditure of the Government, he was perfectly shocked to hear hon. Members endeavouring to increase the Estimate by raising imaginary grievances for the benefit of their constituents. He believed that the duty of a representative was rather to watch the Estimates for the purpose of reducing them, and thus economizing the expenditure of public money; but no sooner was the subject of dockyards
 948
 MR. ALBERMAN SALOMONS  said, he must disclaim being influenced by the considerations referred to by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), because his constituents would be glad to see the Government dockyard in their borough abandoned, and that fine part of the river on which it was situated occupied by private firms. In answer, however, to the argument employed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird), he might say that mere fluctuation in wages would not be sufficient to attract men from the Government dockyards, because when a man became established he would, by leaving the yard, forfeit all claim to superannuation. He believed the system of measurement employed in the Government dockyards was defective, and was a great cause of discontent, because it often happened by the men working in gangs that the worst workman received the best pay at the end of the week. They did not know at the end of the week how much they had earned. He must say that he believed himself bound to represent to the House the grievances of his constituents whenever they were brought under his notice.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the whole tenor of the debate showed how much an authoritative inquiry would conduce to the comforts of the dockyard Members. They would then be able to say to those who came to them with grievances that they were unjustifiable; or, on the contrary, that those grievances were worthy (as he believed most of them were) the immediate attention of the House. He had complaints, and appeared for the engineers, the Royal Naval engineers, the smiths, the storekeepers, the workmen in steam factories, and the artificers generally; and if the Government would grant them a Committee to inquire into their grievances it would be found that most of them had a substantial footing, though he could not but admit that some of them were brought before the House without sufficient cause. He hoped the attention of the Duke of Somerset and of the noble Lord opposite
 949
 MR. LOCKE  asked if there was any law which obliged these men to enter the dockyards. If there was, then there ought to be inquiry, but if there was not, as the dockyards of the whole country were open to them, he did not see they ought to complain. He believed that they went to the dockyards for the simple reason that they liked it, and if they did not find the work there to suit them they could leave it. It appeared to him that hon. Members for the dockyard towns had been speaking not to the House but with an eye to a general election.
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he was glad to find that no metropolitan Member ever dreamt of a job for the benefit of his constituents. There were large sums annually voted for the maintenance of public parks and institutions in the metropolis, and he recollected that an hon. Member, not far from him, had once proposed that the whole expense of the sewage of the metropolis should be thrown on the nation. The hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird) had, in his remarks, only noticed one class of workmen, and forgot those who were tempted to enter the dockyards when wages were high, and who were discharged in quiet, peaceful times. He could not see why, because the representatives of dockyard towns asked that justice should be done to infirm and injured public servants, they should be accused of personal motives.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he thought he might safely leave the question in the hands of hon. Members who did not represent dockyard towns, but perhaps it would be only proper that he should notice some of the specific complaints that had been urged. The hon. and gallant Member for Chatham (Sir Frederic Smith) had expressed a hope that no hardship would be inflicted upon the officers whose offices had been recently abolished—the spinners and the measurers. It was true that the spirit of progress had pressed hardly upon individuals, and a good many spinners and measurers had been discharged, whose work was now efficiently done at a saving of several thousands a year to the public. But great care had been taken to do as little harm as possible to any individuals. With regard to the spinners, a great majority of them have been able to get employment in other branches of the service, and only a small proportion of them had
 950 951
 MR. SEELY  said, he rose to move a reduction of £10,777 in the Vote, on the ground that the charge for the police was more than sufficient. The amount for the police this year was £38,295, which was appropriated in two parts—one for watching and guarding the navy yards, and the other for watching and guarding the victualling, medical, and transport establishments. He was unable to state the exact appropriation for the present year, because no explanation was given; but he would recommend that in future years the appropriation would be explained. He might assume, however, that the appropriation this year would be the same as for 1863–4, when it was £19,364 for the naval yards, as given at page 5, No. 514 "Navy Ships'" account for 1863–4 leaving £18,931 for the victualling, &c, establishments. He had made some inquiries as to the expense which private yards were put to for watching and guarding. He found that at Millwall twelve watchmen were employed at a charge of £748 a year; at the Thames Iron Works ten watchmen were employed at a charge of £696, and taking a third private firm he found that altogether twenty-six watchmen were employed at a cost of £1,652. Calculating the number of workmen employed at these private yards the charge per head per annum was 2 s. d. s. d. 952 s.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the introduction of the metropolitan police into the dockyards was a measure which had been decided upon by the Legislature, and which had been productive of great advantage. He had a Return which showed that whereas in 1859, under the loose system then in operation, only sixty-five persons had been apprehended for theft and other offences, 645 offenders had been arrested the very first year the new system came into operation. That was tolerable proof
 953
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the introduction of the metropolitan police had considerably lessened the number of offences and of marine-store shop dealings in the dockyards.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that he wished to vindicate the heads of dockyard departments from the taunts of the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely). There were no less than sixteen post captains employed in superintending private yards, showing that their services in this respect were well appreciated in the country.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he thought £38,000 was a very large sum to be expended on watching and guarding our dockyards. There was a great disparity in this respect between public and private yards. He did not complain of the introduction of the metropolitan police into the dockyards, but he did complain that so large a sum as £38,000 should be expended in maintaining a police force to watch 16,000 to 17,000 men. He also thought it was great degradation for a respectable workman to be searched on leaving the dockyard, though he was ready to admit that a different system of police was required in public from that employed in private establishments. If anything would justify the high wages which were paid in the Royal dockyards, it was the degradation to which respectable workmen were exposed by being searched. The figures quoted by the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) were perfectly correct.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, that the police had not only to protect the property in our dockyards, but also to visit every ship lying in the docks and to guard against fires.
 MR. SEELY  said, that the statements which he had made as to the relative costs of watching in the Government and private yards were accurate.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Government would not object to postpone Votes 10 and 11, and to the others he believed there was no objection.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he thought that the contribution to sailors' homes should be increased, so as to aid in providing better lodgings for sailors in the principal commercial ports. He found that the Government gave only the trifling sum of £425 as a contribution to sailors' homes, and it appeared to him that they might with great advantage advance a larger sum for so admirable a purpose.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Government had received no complaints that the sailors' homes in the dockyard ports were not in good circumstances, or that their managers were dissatisfied with the contributions of the Admiralty towards their support. The question whether the Government should assist in the maintenance of similar institutions in all the commercial ports—for the Government could not make a distinction—was a very wide one, which would require much consideration. He was afraid that the immediate effect of their interfering with these charitable institutions would be to lead many persons to withdraw their subscriptions and devote them to objects which received no assistance from the Government.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he could assure the noble Lord that sailors' homes might be extended with great advantage, and complained that the Admiralty made no provision for the education of the children of those who were employed in the dockyards.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the sum of £2,000 which was for contributions to religious and charitable institutions exceeded the Estimate of last year by £625; and this excess was mainly caused by provision for the very object which the hon. Baronet desired to see accomplished. The Director of Education had been instructed to visit all the schools in the dockyard towns, and he had prepared a full and complete scheme under which it was intended in the future to make contributions to their support.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that provision for the safety and comfort of sailors when they came ashore was not a work of charity; it was a plain duty of the Admiralty.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to inquire what was the amount of stamp duty paid by officers of the navy for their commissions.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the stamp was fixed by law at 5 s.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he intended to go on with the Navy Estimates after the Army Estimates on Monday, the 24th instant.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he thought that that was too early a day.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that Vote 11 would not be taken on the 24th.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, it was out of order to move an addition to the Committee without due notice.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he had no objection to postpone the nomination of the Committee to the first Thursday after the Easter recess.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that as there was reason to believe that a deputation was coming from Canada in order to consult Her Majesty's Government as to the defences of that country, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether Parliament will be consulted before any engagement is made by Her Majesty's Government tending to pledge the Imperial credit for the execution of those defences, and before any engagement is entered into by the Imperial Government for the defence of Canada on land, lake, or river, beyond that already notified to Parliament—namely, an expenditure of £300,000 for the fortifications and armament of Quebec?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he felt it his duty to bring under the consideration of the House some circumstances relating to the Bill. It having been thought desirable to appropriate the sewage of the metropolis for agricultural purposes and for reclaiming some portions of the seacoast, the Metropolitan Board of Works advertised in 1860 for any scheme by which the sewage might be disposed of in such ways for the benefit of the ratepayers. The various projects were ultimately reduced to two—one by Mr. Ellis, and the other by Messrs. Hope and Napier. The terms of the advertisement published by the Metropolitan Board for tenders notified to every one that the projects were to be carried on at the sole risk of the projectors, and the ratepayers generally were satisfied that the matter should be proceeded with on that footing. After some delay and consideration the Metropolitan Board of Works determined to avail themselves of the project of Messrs. Hope and Napier, which seemed to combine in itself the elements of other projects, and applied to the House for a Bill to carry it into effect. There was a great deal of agitation in the metropolis on the subject of the concession, and to pacify the inhabitants he had moved that the Bill be referred, not to an ordinary private Committee, but to one of a more public character, which should, in the interest of the ratepayers, ascertain what was the best scheme for the utilization of the sewage of the metropolis. When that Committee met he found, to his utter astonishment, that instead of the terms of the advertisement being carried out, an agreement had been entered into between Messrs. Hope and Napier and the Metropolitan Board three days before the second reading of the Bill, which agreement was of a most extraordinary character, for its effect was to give to the Secretary of State, in the event of the failure of the projectors of the scheme, the power of compelling by his mere fiat the rate papers to pay every shilling of the expense. This agreement was to take effect only if it received the sanction of Parliament, and in this way
 882 883
 MR. AYRTON  said, he hoped it would not go forth that there was any purpose of increasing the number of bishops from three to thirty. He thought that the hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld) had only done a natural thing in bringing forward that subject, considering the constituency he represented; and that the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell), acted upon by a like influence, also naturally favoured an addition to the number of Church dignitaries. But it would, in his opinion, be a great misappropriation of the funds under the control of the Ecclesiastical Commission if a set of new bishoprics were now to be created and endowed. As to the endowment of new bishoprics by means of money raised by Churchmen, it would be time enough to deal with that proposal when the money had really been subscribed for it. [Mr. F. S. POWELL; In one case £9,000
 934
 MR. LEFROY  said, he could not let the debate close without expressing his heartfelt gratification at the mode in which this subject had been treated. It was most satisfactory that the peculiar circumstances of Ireland in reference to its railway system should have been considered in such an admirable spirit and temper by hon. Members on both sides of the House. The Irish Members especially owed the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) a deep debt of gratitude for the able and argumentative manner in which he had brought this question under the consideration of the House. He (Mr. Lefroy) must also express his satisfaction at the way in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had treated this question, which filled him with hope for the future. He quite concurred with the right hon. Gentleman in the objection which he entertained to the Government undertaking the management of railways, though it would be well if they would to a limited extent undertake their control.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the attention of Her Majesty's Government had been called to meetings lately held by the Fenians in the United States, but there were only two facts mentioned which required official notice on the part of Her Majesty's Government. One was that a certain Colonel J. H. Gleason had obtained leave of absence from the Army of the Potomac for the purpose of attending a meeting; and the other was that the Attorney General of Louisiana was also present upon the same occasion, Mr. Seward's answer was that leave of absence had been granted to Colonel Gleason, though certainly not for the specific purpose of attending the meeting referred to. That officer simply obtained the leave of absence to which he was entitled. Mr. Seward further stated that the Attorney General of Louisiana was not responsible for his acts to the Government of the United States, but only to the particular State of which he was Attorney General.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that no notice upon the subject mentioned by his hon. and gallant Friend had been received
 889
 MR. LAYARD  said, that his hon. Friend (Sir Harry Verney) had placed on the paper two questions; but he had not put those questions to him, nor had his speech any relation to them. Last year the hon. Baronet was a most earnest advocate of the measures which the German Powers were then taking with regard to the Danish Provinces, while his hon. Friend the Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) and himself endeavoured to check his sympathies for those oppressed nationalities. Last year his hon. Friend was most anxious that Her Majesty's Government should not interfere. Well, with respect to the first part of the question, he had to state that Her Majesty's Government had not interfered since the termination of the war; and he had no information to give as to what was taking place in the Duchies of Schleswig Holstein. When the Duchies were sepa-
 931
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was puzzled as to how he should set about answering the various conflicting and inconsistent statements which had been made by hon. Gentlemen who had taken part in this debate. Indeed, many of the statements which had been alleged seemed to him to be the reverse of the truth. The hon. Gentleman who had first spoken stated that the Government had withdrawn the European troops from the expedition. But the fact was that no European troops had been sent, and none having been sent none could be withdrawn. The hon. Gentleman then said that, though our loss at first was small, he understood that we had since then lost one-third of our men. [Mr. HENRY SEYMOUR: It appears so from the newspapers.] He (Sir Charles Wood) could not account for the reports in the newspapers; but he could say this, that we had lost neither one-third nor any considerable portion of our force. The whole statement, in fact, appeared so entirely without foundation that he was at a loss to conceive whence it could have come. [Mr. HENRY SEYMOUR: Have not two guns been lost?] The hon. Gentleman, again, had talked of the immense loss we had sustained in the occupation of the Dooars. But he (Sir Charles Wood) informed the House last night that the actual loss, in effecting that occupation, except what had occurred from an accidental explosion, was only five men. What we had lost since then he could not pretend to say, but it might be forty or fifty men. However, instead of attempting to follow the various statements which had been made, perhaps the best course to take, and that most satisfactory to the House, would be to give a history of what had actually taken place. And in the first place he might be allowed to say that the papers which had been laid upon the table would afford the most complete information up to the time of the occupation. The India Office had been most desirous to give every information which could throw light upon the question, and the papers had been ready for some time, but the noble Lord had asked for a map in order to illustrate the operations; and so defective were the materials at their command, that the office had been employed
 942 943 944
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : That was perfectly true; but it was equally true that many of the best actions in India had been fought by those regiments in which there were only three European officers. At the present moment there was no resistance on the greater part of the territory which we occupied, and the troops still maintained the position which they had occupied. He hoped by the next mail to receive more accurate information of what had occurred upon the subject. It was not quite fair to condemn the officers and men upon the scanty information which had been received. No official report had been forwarded. He thought the account which came to this country of great disasters was entirely unfounded, and he had received no information which would lead him to suppose that any great loss had been sustained.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, one of the inconveniences attending the use of the telegraph is the imperfect information it oftentimes affords us. I must, therefore, say that I am not at all certain of the answer which I have to give to the question of the hon. Gentleman. It is true that I have received a telegram, but I do not know from whom it has come.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I think that is, with all deference to the hon. and gallant Gentleman, not a question which I ought to answer.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : It is perfectly impossible that any information can have reached England by letter from Calcutta giving an account of what was said or done on the 31st of March last, at which date the financial arrangements for the year had been determined upon. Whatever may have appeared in the newspapers or elsewhere, must, therefore, have been sent by telegraph. I received a telegram on the 3rd of April, stating that the income tax had not been renewed, but that export duties had been placed upon certain articles of produce in India. I can hardly doubt the correctness of the telegram, but it is so totally opposed to everything I had reason to expect, that I scarcely know whether to believe it or not.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, were it not for exceptional legislation in each particular case, the greater part of the offices held by Members of Her Majesty's Government would not come under the category of "new offices or places of profit under the Crown," which, according to the provisions of the 6  Anne,
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the following telegram has been received by the War Department, and has been communicated to the Colonial Department:—
 "Hostilities commenced in the Whangaura district on the 24th of January. Lieutenant General Cameron advanced with a force of 800 men towards the Whaitolara River. On the same day a skirmish took place with the rebels in posting a picket at Nukumtrar, near which village the troops had encamped. On the 25th the rebels attacked the camp in force, and were repulsed with a loss of seventy killed; number of their wounded unknown. Our loss in the two days was Lieutenant Johnson, 40th Regiment, Deputy Assistant Adjutant General, mortally wounded (since dead); Lieutenant Wilson, 60th Regiment, severely, and Ensign Grant, 50th Regiment, dangerously wounded; fifteen men killed, and thirty
 894
 MR. GREAVES  said, the Bill had already received its death-blow elsewhere. He moved that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that having sat on the Committee he wished to say that they had looked on the work as one of public and national utility. The promoters undertook to get rid of the sewage of the north of London beyond Barking Creek without the probability of its returning. Its success or failure as an agricultural operation was a secondary point with them, although they had every reason to believe that it would succeed in that respect extremely well. The only opposition was brought forward by a Mr. Ellis; and his opposition greatly confirmed the probability of success from the proposed mode of using the sewage. Messrs. Hope and Napier's plan combined all the benefits offered by Mr. Ellis, together with a great outlet for the sewage into the sea where it would be quite clear of the Thames. As to no capital being subscribed for the scheme, the House should recollect that very many railway Bills were passed without there being any  bond fide 884
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When Her Majesty's Government intend to introduce the Bill for the Amendment of the Salmon Fishery Acts?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, he hoped the right hon. Baronet would give the House some information as to how it was the local Bengal Government had been suffered to act instead of the Supreme Government, and whether the Commander-in-Chief was responsible. It appeared that the local Government were responsible for sending the Native troops without European officers, and it was highly improper that any local Government should be allowed to plunge the Government into war.
 MR. ONSLOW  said, he would beg to ask Her Majesty's Government, Whether they have considered the propriety of placing vessels from the Baltic in quarantine, with a view to prevent the introduction of a contagious fever said to be raging in those parts?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to explain. The statement to
 892 The Times'
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received any information to the effect that an Export Duty had been placed upon Jute, Coffee, and various other articles in India, and that the Income Tax had been continued in that country?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that he wished, before Parliament separated for the holidays, to say a few words on a most important subject, he meant the great disaster that had befallen the expedition to Bhootan. The loss of two guns to any portion of Her Majesty's army was a circumstance which so seldom happened that he thought some special inquiry should be made concerning it. It appeared that on the borders of Bengal was a district inhabited by the semi-savages of Bhootan, who had made such repeated incursions some time ago, that it was considered necessary that an expedition should be sent into the territory. That expedition was planned last year, at considerable expense. It was well planned; it advanced into
 937 ruse 938
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, in rising to ask the Question of which he had given notice, he would previously read a passage which occurred in the letter of  The Times' "So recently as the 11th of March, 1863, fifteen years after the ignominious collapse of Mr. Smith O'Brien's rebellion in the widow's cabbage-garden, it was stated in the official address of the Fenians 'that the Fenian Brotherhood was instituted some years previously as a secret society; that it had ceased to be secret; that its object was the invasion of Ireland by an armed force of at least 100,000 men; and that the Brotherhood had the secret countenance among others of W. II. Seward, the Secretary of State.' On the 6th of March, 1864, a report of the meeting of the Executive Committee of the Fenians at Chicago appeared in the  Sunday Mercury, nem. con., 891
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, in seconding the Motion, that he thought the House was indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for the great pains he had bestowed on this subject, fie had discharged a paramount duly to his country in bringing it forward. The size of the question naturally attracted their attention, and it more particularly deserved the notice of the House because it was not calculated to en-
 906 907 "So great were the powers, so vast the capabilities of a railroad, that it must, wherever established, at once supersede the conveyances by common road; and, consequently, while the railway facilitated traffic, it destroyed other modes of conveyance." 908 Herapath's Railway Journal, 909 910 911 modus operandi, 912
 MR. WYLD  said, that when the inhabitants of Cornwall represented to the Government last year that they ought to have a separate diocese created, the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department said he could not entertain the question until the re-organization of other dioceses in England, besides that of Exeter was being arranged. He was afraid that if the inhabitants of Cornwall were obliged to wait for that step to be taken they might have to wait a long time. The right hon. Gentleman also said that he trusted that the increased facilities in regard to travelling would put an end to the inconvenience which had been felt by the people of Cornwall in consequence of their bishop residing at a distant part of the diocese. But that great inconvenience had not been removed. The county of Cornwall stood by itself. The diocese of Exeter was without a parallel. It now included the county of Cornwall, contained an area of 2,000,000 square acres, and a population of more than 1,000,000. From the residence of the bishop to the extreme point of the diocese was nearly 120 miles, exclusive of the Scilly Isles, which was about twenty miles from Cornwall. The Archbishop of Canterbury thought that the present diocese of Exeter ought to be divided, and his Grace and the bishops and clergy of the Archdiocese of Canterbury in Convocation assembled had adopt-
 932
 MR. BRADY  said, that as a Member of the Committee, he wished to state that the concession to Messrs. Napier and Hope was kept a secret from the Committee until after three days' examination of the members of the Board, though they had been repeatedly pressed to produce it. He was glad the postponement had been agreed to, otherwise he should have divided the House.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that having been a Member of the Committee, and knowing that the recommendations were of a very moderate character, involving no considerable outlay, he wished to understand distinctly whether those recommendations had been fully carried out?
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he thought it was the desire of the House that the Motion for the second reading should not be pressed. The Metropolitan Board of
 887
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to ask, Whether Mr. Attorney General will consent to postpone the Committee on the Court of Chancery (Ireland) Bill, which is fixed for May 11, as that day would be very inconvenient to Irish Members. The Dublin Exhibition was to be opened by the Prince of Wales on May 9, and therefore it would be very convenient to postpone the Bill until the following Monday.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he supported the Amendment. The 15th clause was entirely inconsistent with the principle recognized by the House in all private Bills affecting the property of the ratepayers. They should have a chance of being heard on the matter.
 MR. TORRENS  said, that the hon. Gentleman who introduced the subject was somewhat in error when he spoke of the European troops in the expedition. The great fault that was to be found with those who had projected it was that no Europeans whatever had been employed, except some twenty artillerymen for the management of the two Armstrongs, which, he
 940 The Times, 941
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Committee did not make any definite re-
 946
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Committee referred to had not recommended any particular plan. There were two plans considered, and the Members of the Committee were more favourable to one than to the other, but there was no definite recommendation that it should be adopted. He was aware their opinion was that an endeavour should be made to carry out the second plan. That had been done, and he had received a communication from the engineer, and also from the harbour-master at Holyhead, to the effect that the works, so far as the accommodation of steam vessels was concerned, had been completed. A sheltered berth had been provided for the incoming steamer, where the passengers might be landed without delay, and also a berth from which the out-going steamer would take in her passengers and go to sea without difficulty. If the Dublin and Holyhead Steam Packet Company did not avail themselves of these sheltered berths the Government could not help it. Their practice was to take in their passengers and land them at the end of the wooden jetty, but by coming a little further up they would come to the sheltered berth, where there could be very little swell. In accordance with one of the suggestions of the Committee the lighthouse had been moved to the end of the jetty, and a light would very soon be exhibited there. A berth had also been provided for the reserve packet, where she could be in perfect safety and be available at a moment's notice. He was not aware that there now existed any difficulty in the speedy landing and embarkation of mails. It had been the desire of the Government to carry out to the best of their ability, and under the most competent advice, the recommendations of the Committee so far as they could be gathered from what passed in it. They had expended in doing so nearly all the money voted for that purpose by the House.
 MR. WESTERN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any intelligence has been received of a renewed outbreak of hostilities in New Zealand?
 MR. SCULLY  said, that he took great interest in this question, so much so that he had some time since solicited an interview with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon the subject. The question could not, either directly or indirectly, be regarded as involving any party considerations, and he should be, therefore, very much surprised if any hon. Member representing an Irish constituency opposed the Motion. It would be for the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider whether the question was one which should be immediately dealt with, or whether, as usual, it should be postponed for some future treatment. The Commissioners certainly ought, in his opinion, to direct their attention first of all to Ireland, because, though that country would, no doubt, receive immediate benefit, England also would derive permanent advantage from such a course. The experiment might first be tried in Ireland, and if successful might be extended to England; while in case of failure, on the other hand, the latter country would be able to avoid adopting any course which had been found unsatisfactory. In the Commission which had been appointed the Irish element appeared to have been lost sight of, in fact the noble Lord at the head of the Government usually excluded Irishmen from the Cabinet and from Commissions. Out of fourteen Commissioners there were seven English and one Scotch Members, but not one hon. Gentleman who represented a constituency in Ireland. The only Irishman on the Commission was the Earl of Donoughmore. He quite believed that the proposed reduction of railway fares would be of greater advantage to Ireland than even the abolition of the income tax. The right hon. Gentleman the
 913 s. 914 915
 MR. SCULLY  said, he rose to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Has his attention been called to the Report of the Referees on the Piccadilly and Park Lane New Road Bill, and has he given a "distinct intimation" that a portion of the Crown Land, valued at £6,577, will be given up to the Metropolitan Board of Works without any payment?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Before addressing myself to the Motion, there are two statements made in this discussion to which I feel bound to take exception. I cannot admit to the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Scully) that there has been any neglect of Ireland or Irish interests in the appointment of the Royal Commission. The hon. Gentleman says there are two or three Scotchmen on the Commission, but only one Irishman. He has investigated the question of nationality with an acuteness to which I cannot lay claim. We did not ascertain the birthplace of every Member of the Commission. But one Member of that Commission is a Peer of great ability (the Earl of Donoughmore) connected almost exclusively with Ireland. The Chairman of that Commission is a noble Duke, holding the first rank among Irish proprietors. Lord Stanley, another Member of the Commission, is directly and largeiy interested in Ireland; so that I think it can scarcely be said with justice that due regard was not, in the formation of the Commission, paid to that country. In noticing the observations which fell from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside), I am not about to utter a single word which could prejudice the final judgment of this House as to the question
 918 919 920 921 d. vivá voce 922 923
 MR. MONSELL  rose to move—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the railway system of the United Kingdom may be instructed to direct their inquiries, in the first instance, to the Irish railway system, with a view of ascertaining, with as little delay as possible, such facts as may enable this House to determine whether the provisions of the second clause of the general Railway Act of 1844 should be applied to such Irish railways as are subject to its provisions." 897 "That railways in the hands of individuals or chartered companies, however valuable and important might be the facilities they gave, were necessarily monopolies, and as such were irreconcilable with the public interests; while, if such establishments were the property of the State, they could be altered and dealt with at any time, without injury to any party." 898 899 900 901 s. s. d. d., d. 902 s. d. s., s. d. s., s. d. s. s. d., s.; s. s. s. d., d., s. s. 903 s. d. s. d. d. d. 904 905
 MR. MONSELL  said, that after the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, which was all that he wished for, he could not have the slightest hesitation in withdrawing the Motion.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Bill for recording Titles to Land in Ireland will be introduced?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Mr. Consul Swinhoe has made a Report that the British Merchant Steamer  Elphin, Elphin
 MR. VANSITTART : What he said was, that we had regular Native regiments and irregulars, and we had reduced the officers from twenty-four to six.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, the hon. Gentleman was mistaken in supposing that any European force was sent to Bhootan. It appeared to him that the same mistake which was committed last year in the Hill war on our North Western frontier had been repeated this year in Bhootan—namely, that of despising the enemy. In defence, however, of the conduct of the 43rd Regiment Native Infantry, which ran away from Dewangiri, he had authority for stating that that regiment went into action with but one European officer beside the colonel fit for duty. It was notorious that Asiatic troops would not behave well in action when they were under-officered, and all the Native regiments in India were in this state, owing to the right hon. the Secretary for India, in spite of all warnings and protests, converting the regular Native troops into irregulars, and thus reducing the number of officers from twenty-four to six. Besides which, the unfortunate system that had been introduced in carrying out the amalgamation order had had the effect of making commanding officers entire strangers to their men, and destroying the sympathy which used formerly to exist between them. In fact, no officer could now-a-days lead into action, as in the old time, men with whom he had been acquainted since his boyhood. With regard to this war there had unquestionably been great mismanagement, and the time
 939
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the hon. Baronet (Sir Harry Verney) had addressed himself to the task of proving that
 930
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he hoped the House would allow him to offer a few remarks upon this subject in its more general aspect, and he did so because, in the letter of the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department to the Archbishop of Canterbury, last year, the question of a bishop for Cornwall was blended with the question of more bishops throughout England. When the Reformation of the English Church took place it was intended to extend the number of bishops by twenty, but that idea was not carried out, and since that period the great increase of the population had increased the want of bishops. He believed that all who had an opportunity of coming into contact with the bishops must have felt that they were an overburdened and overworked body of men. As a practical man, he feared that the idea of a large extension of the episcopate must be abandoned for the present. It would be in vain to ask the House of Commons to give the country some thirty or forty more bishops, in accordance with the requisitions of some more sanguine churchmen, but a more moderate course had been proposed. The third and final Report of the Cathedral Commission recommended the creation of four new bishoprics—namely, Westminster, Southwark, Cornwall, and the division of Gloucester and Bristol. During the late sittings of the Convocations, there was a remarkable concurrence of opinion. The Convo-
 933
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the question of the hon. Member for Bodmin was entirely confined to a division of the diocese of Exeter, by separating from it the county of Cornwall. On that subject the opinions of the Government were expressed very fully in a letter which he had addressed at the beginning of last year to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and which had been laid before Parliament. In that letter he had stated the objections of the Government to the adoption of that scheme. It was impossible to treat the diocese of Exeter as an exceptional case, or to deal with it without any reference to other dioceses, as indeed had been implied by the speech of the hon. Member for Cambridge (Mr. Powell.) He was aware that a strong desire existed in some parts of the diocese of Exeter for its division, and that a contest had already commenced between the towns of Bodmin and Truro as to which of the two should become the cathedral city in the event of such a division taking place. He gave all due weight to the considerations founded on the very large area of the existing diocese of Exeter; but there were six other dioceses with larger populations, and some of them with a very extended area, and in some of those six a desire had also been expressed in favour of their division. That was the case in regard to the diocese of Durham some years ago, but now the desire for its division had considerably abated, owing to the activity of the late and present bishops of Durham, and zeal that had been shown in the efficient discharge of their episcopal duties. A similar wish had likewise been strongly expressed in respect to the diocese of Win-
 935 "Looking to the whole of England, it will be seen that there are several dioceses which, although they do not quite equal that of Exeter in extent of area, yet combine the two elements of a very extensive area and a very large population. If, therefore, Her Majesty should be advised to accede to the present proposal, and to direct measures to be taken with the concurrence of Parliament for the creation of a separate See for Cornwall, it would scarcely be possible to refuse to entertain similar applications in respect of other dioceses, and great inconvenience would result from the separate consideration of each case, apart from its relation to the whole country and to other dioceses." "That there was no indisposition to raise a considerable sum of money in the diocese towards the endowment of a bishopric for Cornwall;" "But Her Majesty's Government do not understand that the whole of the requisite endowment for a new See would be thus provided. If any considerable portion of such endowment, or of other expenditure incident to the creation of a new See, would have to be provided out of the funds in the hands of the Ecclesiastical Commission, it would be a matter for grave consideration whether it would be more conducive to the highest
 936
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, Her Majesty's Government have received no information upon this subject in addition to what was laid upon the table of the House yesterday. That information is not such as to induce us to think of establishing a quarantine at present.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the Bill for the Registration of Titles in Ireland had been laid on the table of the House of Lords on the previous evening by the Lord Chancellor.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he had stated to the promoters of the Bill the objections he entertained to this article of the agreement. The Bill provided that certain main culverts should be executed by the concessionaires within four years, and if they were not completed within that time the deposit of £25,000 to the Board of Works should be forfeited. It was quite possible the non-completion of the main culverts within the time specified might be accidental, without any fault of the concessionaires; but Article 15 provided that the Secretary of State should in such case certify whether the concessionaires should forfeit all their rights and privileges. That was a power which the Secretary of State would find it extremely difficult to exercise. But the Article went on to provide, if the Secretary of State determined that no forfeiture should take place, well and good; but in case of forfeiture, then he was to prescribe the terms, and those terms were to be final and binding. He thought the power to determine whether forfeiture should take place ought not to be intrusted to one Member of the Government, still less should the power of fixing the terms. Some other provision should be substituted for the 15th Article, probably some mode of arbitration; and as there was no opposition to the scheme itself he hoped the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir William Russell) who had charge of the Bill would agree to its postponement till the 25th of April, by which time the parties might come to some satisfactory settlement as to Article 15.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he rose, with reference to the Despatch of Earl Russell to Her Majesty's Embassies at Berlin and Vienna of the 8th instant, concerning the recognition of the Provisional flag of the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein, to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the following construction of that Despatch is
 926 "Complete separation of Schleswig and Holstein from Denmark, and their re-union in one State-under the sovereignty of the Hereditary Prince of Augustenburg, who not only could show his right to the satisfaction of all Germany, and whose recognition by the Diet was therefore certain, but who united the suffrages of the immense majority of the inhabitants of those countries." 927 928 Kreutz Zeitung Nord Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung, 929
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to know, whether the principles upon which taxation proceeds in India are supposed to be in harmony with the principles of taxation in this country, and whether the Government in India is empowered to act independently of any principles laid down in this country?
 MR. ENNIS  said, that he trusted to the indulgence of the House while he addressed it for the first time. At first sight he was disposed to express his acquiescence in the spirit of the Resolution. He thought that inquiry would do good. But the more the existing state of Irish railways was inquired into the better, and the more honest the direction of those railways would be found to be. He had not, like other hon. Members, three methods to point out to the Chancellor of the Exchequer by which the mighty change that was contemplated might be accomplished; but in the language of the Mover of the Resolution, he would say that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would be a bold man if he sought to carry it into effect. After seriously considering the matter he had come to the conclusion that the traffic upon Irish railways could only be a very limited quantity. He was one of the pioneers of the railway system in Ireland in 1845–6, believing that railways were the best means of improving the condition of the country. He accordingly induced numbers of persons in Ireland to put their hands into their pockets and contribute to a result that promised so much success. The system at first promised to be most successful. Those expectations, he would admit, had not been realized, owing to the wretched state of
 916 d. 917
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to put a Question upon a subject of considerable interest to Volunteer Artillery Corps, Under the 26 &c 27  Vict. Vict. Vict. 895 Vict.
 SIR WILLIAM RUSSELL  said, after the expressions of opinion by the right hon. Gentlemen the Secretary of State (Sir George Grey) and the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley), and of the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Wilson Patten), he would agree to postpone the Bill till after Easter, giving due notice of the clause he intended to propose.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : If I understand the hon. Gentleman's Question rightly, he wishes to know whether it is the intention of the Government to propose to this House a Bill to enable the Postmaster General to sit as a Member of the
 896
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that considering the magnitude and importance of the subject, he did not think it possible to give any engagement on the part of the Government that a Bill would be introduced during the present Session. All he would undertake to say was that the recommendations of the Committee would, without any loss of time, receive the best consideration of the Government, with the view to introduce as speedily as possible such a measure as it should seem to them expedient to adopt.
 GENEBAL PEEL  said: There cannot be
 960 961 962 963 964 965
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I will take the opportunity first of referring to a statement made by me on a previous occasion, of which I have been reminded by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (General Peel), as to the effect produced on the War Office by the publication of this Report. I do not think I used the words quoted by the right hon. Gentleman, that "the Report had been received with entire satisfaction in the War Office." On the contrary, I said there was great excitement in the War Office, more with reference to the result of this debate than the Report of the Committee, and that as far as I knew the Report had been well received in the War Office. I am quite willing now to admit that I have reason to believe that statement was not correct, and that the clerks in the War Office, I am sorry to say, look upon the Report with considerable suspicion, and believe that it will be extremely injurious to their prospects. I should be most willing to correct any mistake I might have made, but the extreme irregularity of the manner in which the incorrectness of the statement referred to was brought under my notice prevents me from saying more on this occasion, and from taking any additional notice of the statements, there made. But although I am willing to admit that the feeling of the War Office is contrary to the recommendations of this Committee, still, much as I may regret that circumstance, it does not make any difference to my mind in the soundness of the views expressed in
 977 978 979 "We do not question the motives by which those who are responsible for the selection of clerks for promotion have been governed. We have no doubt that they have been iufluenced solely by a desire to carry out the regulations in the manner best calculated to reconcile the claims of individuals with the requirements of the public service; but it appears to us that anomalies of the character to which we have referred are inseparable from a system which attempts to give promotion as the reward of general merit by selection from a wide range of Departments, the duties of which vary in character, and many of which have little in common beyond the circumstance of their being subject to the authority of the Secretary of State for War." 980 981 * 982 983 984 985
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he could not clearly understand from the speech of the noble Marquess what it was the Government actually proposed to do, whether they intended to follow the rule laid down by Lord Panmure or not, which rule was to receive recommendations from the heads of each branch of the War Department whenever a vacancy causing promotion occurred, and promote according to merit, but this rule had not been followed even by Lord Panmure himself. A Report of a Committee which had sat on the organization of the War Office had been laid on the table of the House, and the majority had recommended that promotion, as a rule, should go in the separate branches of the Department, but the Commissioners did not agree, and Sir Edward Lugard protested against it. No doubt in the smaller branches there would be some hardship to clerks in it from the lesser chances of promotion, but in the larger this objection would not affect them, and in fact promotion was now separate in the Medical branch, in the Accountant General's branch, and he believed in the Fortification branch. A clerk who was ac-
 987 988
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH,  said he agreed in what his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Dunne) had stated with regard to what are called the respective officers, but he did not perceive any intention on the part of the Government to do away with them. They were useful in curtailing expenditure, and he hoped they would not be interfered with or abolished. He agreed with his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Malins) that the temporary clerks were very hardly dealt with. The complaint was not so much that they had been removed, as that the gratuity given
 990 991
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he did not participate in that feeling of gratitude towards the noble Marquess for his endeavours on this question which the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Forster) said he thought the Committee should experience. Neither did he believe the clerks of the War Office were at all grateful for the treatment they had met with from the Government. There were two portions of the Department to which the Report did not refer—namely, the highest and the lowest. He wished to call the attention of the Committee to the enormous sum of £5,739 for messengers, and the additional item of £992 for boys to do the work for them. That was not quite in accordance with the
 994
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel Dunne) had referred to a great many points incidentally mentioned in the Report as bearing on the administration of the War Office. Into the regulations of the Commissariat and the; intended arrangements in the barrack department he would not enter, because they did not affect the administration of the War Office. But the consolidation of the finance regulations did affect it, and on this subject the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Dunne) would have done better to postpone his ridicule until he had seen the consolidation and knew what was its result. As to the statement that no good could be done except by a board of officers, he quite agreed that if new regulations were to be framed for the payment of officers and men, it might be necessary that, if officers were not employed to frame them, they should be consulted on the subject. But here there was no question of framing now regulations; the only thing to be done was to arrange and modify regulations already in existence, so that they might be easily understood by all who might refer to them. On a former occasion he had stated the reasons which led the Government to think that this consolidation would be better done by a civilian accustomed to such work than by any officer, and he felt convinced that the army would not follow the example of the hon. and gallant Member, and prematurely ridicule a work which they had not yet had an opportunity
 995
 COLONEL DUNNE  disclaimed any feeling of hostility towards, or any wish to cast ridicule upon, the gentleman employed to consolidate these regulations, but he believed the feeling of the army to be, that that gentleman was not qualified for the work which required a knowledge of military details only possessed by officers.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  had learnt with considerable regret, from the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, the continued indisposition of the Board of Admiralty to meet the claims advanced in their memorial by the reserved captains of the Navy. At the same time, he frankly admitted that when the right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth, in the year 1851, at that time presiding at the Board, drew up the Minute offering retirement to these officers agreeably to that Minute, he had done so in the full belief that it did not lay open to any misunderstanding. He, however, contended an amount of ambiguity was apparent which justified these officers in arriving at a different impression, and certainly a
 999
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman had often brought the case of these gallant officers before the House, and had urged that they ought to be allowed to rise  pari passu pari passu pari passu 998 s. d. s. s. d. pari passu s. d.; s. d., s. d., s. d., s. d.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that he was afraid that he could not give the hon. Member much information on the subject, not that he wished to conceal anything, but that he considered it would be very unadvisable, considering the position of the prisoners, that anything should be said that might lead to greater complications. He would take this opportunity, therefore, of deprecating any mention in the press of what took place in that House or elsewhere with regard to those prisoners, as he had reason to believe that all these things were sent out to Abyssinia and got much exaggerated, and might lead to serious consequences to the prisoners who were held by the King. Every means had been taken by Her Majesty's Government to obtain their release. The Government were in communication with some of the authorities; they had lately heard from a good source that Captain Cameron and the missionaries, although in prison, were in good health; and letters received from M. Rassam within a few hours held out the hope that ere long the prisoners would obtain their release.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he wished to correct a statement he had made jus-before the holidays, in answer to a Question by the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Mr. H. Cole), with reference to the Rolls of Pegu Prize Money. He had stated that the whole of the Prize Rolls had been sent to Chelsea Hospital, whereas only a portion of them had been sent. Orders had been sent to India to have the remainder sent as soon as possible.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would take an early opportunity of laying on the table the terms on which it was proposed to grant pensions to ex-Colonial Governors.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to put a Question to the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in reference to British prisoners in Abyssinia. He wished to know, What is the present state of the negotiations with respect to the British captives in Abyssinia, whether the Government have reason to expect a successful issue to the mission of M. Rassam, and what steps they are prepared to take in the event of their not receiving good accounts from him?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask a Question of the Secretary of State for the Home Department of which he had given him private notice, Whether any answer has been received from the Chief Constable of the county of Norfolk to the
 959
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would give the explanation when the Report was brought up.
 MR. MALINS  said, he was very happy
 989
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I wish to say a few words in reply to one or two questions which have been put by my hon. Friend opposite. My hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote) referring to the Audit Office, asked whether it was proposed that its functions should be extended. Now, as he is aware, a new appointment has been recently made to the chair of that office, and it is the hope and intention of the Government that the jurisdiction of the Board may be extended, and their hands strengthened in the execution of their important duties in the spirit of the recommendations made by the Committee on Public Moneys on the subject. It would be premature to enter into details which are of a highly technical and departmental character. I shall not, therefore, go beyond the general declaration that it is intended to give as much strength as possible to the Audit Office for the performance of its duties, and to make the circle of those duties as wide as possible. My hon. Friend has also asked whether we have any plan in view for the formation of a general copying-office for the purpose of discharging those mechanical duties which are connected with the higher work of the political departments of the State. In replying to that question, I may be allowed to observe that I think my noble Friend has succeeded in showing that no hardship has been inflicted in the particular case which has formed the main subject of this discussion. At the same time I should be disposed to admit that there is unavoidable inconvenience attaching to the system of employing temporary clerks; because if I understand the case which my hon. Friend opposite has sought to make out, it comes to this, that there has been so much anxiety on the part of the War Office to improve the condition of those gentlemen where they could do it, by adopting them into the establishment, and by recognizing claims in some degree outside their position as temporary clerks, that the course now taken is open to objection on the ground that the more kind the authorities were, the more unkind they were, or at least seemed to be. I do not, therefore,
 986
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, his object in rising was to prove that the  modus operandi 993 status
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, there was another question besides those of promotion and the temporary clerks—namely, whether the attempt which the War Office was making to effect a reform in the Department should meet with obstruction or support in the House. It was clear that the noble Lord at the head of the War Office was anxious to have the work of his Office done in the best possible way. The noble Lord on finding that the existing arrangements of the War Office did not work well, caused an investigation to be made, which resulted in a Report drawn up by competent men. And upon the recommendations contained in such Report the noble Lord acted. It would not be possible in any but a
 992
 MR. MURRAY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is intended to introduce in this Session any Bill to carry out the Resolutions reported to the House by the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the working of the Bankruptcy Act, 1861?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that a detailed statement having been made on the authority of the coroner for Lynn with reference to the alleged mortality among children in the parish of Emneth, he had referred it to the chief constable of the county in order that inquiry might be made; and he had received from him the day before the House adjourned a full Report, which showed that the statement of the coroner was very grossly exaggerated. That statement having attained extensive circulation by being made in that House, he thought it would only be right that the Report of the chief constable should be laid on the table; and if the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bentinck) moved for it, the Report would be produced and printed. He might add that with the Report from the Chief Constable of the county he would produce a letter from the clergyman giving a statement of the circumstances of the parish.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he thought that the prospect opened out to well conducted soldiers and non-commissioned officers by this scheme would attract a better class of men into the army, and would improve its general standing and morality. He therefore cordially thanked the noble Marquess for the share which he had taken in it.
 SIE JOHN HAY  said, he was happy to see a reduction in the dead weight amounting to nearly £30,000 in the pay to reserve officers; but there was so much the greater reason that some consideration should be shown to those officers whose case had been so often brought before the House, and especially the reserve captains on the F G list. The Committee appointed to consider the question of naval retirement could not enter into the grievances of these officers, because they involved a money question which had not been submitted to the Committee. These captains were removed from the active to the reserved list when the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Francis Baring) was First Lord of the Admiralty. Certain officers had served with considerable distinction, and as they were getting old they were offered the retirement which then existed for officers of that rank. They declined that offer, and refused to accept the retirement, but the First Lord was determined to remove them from the list, and he caused a reserved list to be framed. Having declined to accept the retirement, they were persuaded to go upon the list thus created, believing that by this removal they Continued to enjoy all the advantages accruing to officers on the active list, except that they would not receive the same amount of employment. They received Commissions like officers on the active list, and not similar to the Commission of retired officers, and they believed, and were assured, that they would lose nothing by accepting promotion on the reserved list. This impression of theirs received some corroboration from what occurred at the time of the Russian war, when many of them applied for employment, for Sir James Graham did not decline their services upon the ground that they were on a list which incapacitated them from serving, hut because their services would not be required, as there was no probability of a great naval war with Russia. No doubt, there was considerable advantage at the time in removing these officers from the active list, as room was thus made for promotion, but there was also considerable hardship in the fact that in accepting the reserve list they were not aware that they were accepting a retirement. He would suggest that a small boon should be granted to them, and that
 997 pari passu
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to ask for explanations of the estimated cost of altering the armour-plating of the  Royal Alfred.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought that those Members of the House who had been able to look at the Reports on the table, must feel that the House was fully justified in requesting that the discussion on the Vote might be postponed until the Reports were before them. As a general rule he was quite willing to acknowledge that it was undesirable that the House of Commons should interfere with the discretion of the Government and of heads of Departments in the administration of the departments under their care. Generally speaking the House of Commons had not sufficient knowledge to deal with these questions; but, in the present instance, there were several points which rendered it important that the House of Commons should take into its consideration the new organization of the War Department, and that some explanations upon the subject should be given. One of the questions which ought to be considered was the economical result of the alterations. He had not yet had time to examine into the question very carefully, but it appeared to him that the apparent saving of £10,000 would be materially reduced, and would probably altogether disappear when the counter-charges, not in the Estimate, were set down. First among these countercharges were the superannuations. He perceived that something like £6,500 had
 966 967 968 969 970 971 972 973 s. 974 s. s. 975 976
 MR. AYRTON  said, that this clause was intended to carry out what was understood to be the wishes of all parties—namely, that in the event of the promoters of this scheme not being able to complete it within the time allowed by Parliament they should have no claim upon the ratepayers for indemnity, and they should proceed upon the merits of the scheme and at their own risk. The clause also provided that the Metropolitan Board should have full liberty to inspect the books and papers of the promoters. With this additional clause he did not think the Bill was further objectionable.
 MR. ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that the Bill was in preparation. He could not state positively that it would be introduced during the present Session, because accuracy in such a matter was of primary importance; but he had every reason to hope that he should be able to introduce it.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had no wish to oppose the introduction of the Bill, but, as a friend of Archdeacon Hale, and on his authority, he wished to state that what was said of him on a previous occasiou—that he was obstinately opposed to the clearly expressed wish of the Legislature as to these benefices—was an entire mistake. The facts were these. A scheme had been submitted to and approved by the Lean and Chapter of St. Paul's for the taking down of St. Benet's Church, and the sale of its site by tender. The Ecclesiastical Commissioners, when the scheme came before them, altered it so that the sale was to be effected by public auction. Archdeacon Hale would doubtless have preferred that it should not have been taken down at all; but, at any rate, he did not consider that the sale of a church by public auction was a becoming thing, and he objected to that part of the scheme, but he had no intention whatever of setting himself against the declared will of the Legislature, and of the other bodies whose consent had been gained. Instead of altering the scheme and removing this objection, the right hon. Gentleman thereupon introduced a Bill for dispensing entirely with Archdeacon Hale's consent, thus not only placing the Archdeacon in an unfair position, but doing away entirely with one of the securities provided by the original Act. Before leave was given to introduce the Bill he should like to hear from the right hon. Gentleman whether it contained any provision for the sale of the church by public auction, and also whether it contained a provision for dispensing with Archdeacon Hale's consent.
 MR. LYALL  said, he had no doubt that this Bill was introduced with the best intentions towards the Church, but he did not look with much favour on a piecemeal legislation such as this to provide for the scruples of one individual. If the right hon. Gentleman wished to amend the scheme of 1860 he ought to bring forward a general amending Bill. The Act of
 1015
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he had to complain that the right hon. Gentleman had not explained what the provisions of the Bill were. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) could have but little confidence in his Bill when he sought to introduce it almost by taking the House by surprise, and without giving any information at all respecting it. He supposed, however, that it might be taken for granted that it was directed against a particular ecclesiastical dignitary. When the original Bill was passed numerous safeguards were provided; but when, for the first time, the conscientious scruples of one man came into play, a Bill was introduced  pro hâc vice
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he thought that when a Bill was brought forward which would act as a Bill of Pains and Penalties to a dignitary of the Church its unusual character alone required something more than a cursory statement like that of the right hon. Gentleman on the other evening to induce the House to permit its introduction. Since then there had been placed on the table of the House the correspondence on the subject with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners and others concerned in the matters at issue, and those documents were an entire and complete justification of the course which he (Mr. Hubbard) had taken on a former occasion. One of the points for which the House had expressly provided had arisen. The House determined that as the Archdeacon was the per-
 1016
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he believed that the safeguards provided by the Act were necessary, and ought to be preserved, except some very good reason could be given for doing away with them. When he was Lord Mayor it came to his knowledge that the beautiful church which stood at the end of Lombard Street and King William Street was about to be taken down under the Act, because, as it was alleged, it stood in the way of a street improvement. An arrangement had been made with the officers of the church, and a large sum was to be paid in order that the building might be sold. That church was well filled every Sunday, and he believed there had been no intention to pull it down. The excuse made was that it was habitually empty, and the whole thing was cut and dried. It was to have been put up
 1017
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he had said nothing because he had already made a statement on the subject. He had no objection to give hon. Gentlemen opposite any information on the subject of this Bill, though they seemed to be already in possession of what they asked for. Under the Act certain consents were necessary before a church could be sold. It was requisite to have the consent of the parishioners, and that had been unanimously given in this case. The consent of the patrons was required, who, in this case, were the Deans and Chapters of Canterbury and St. Paul's, and that also had been given, as had likewise been the consent of the Bishop of London, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and that of the Secretary of State. He thought that all those safeguards very amply secured the interests of the Church and of the public. But in addition to the consents which he had just enumerated, and which had been re-acquired in the Bill as it came from the Lords, the consent of I the Archdeacon was foisted into the Bill by the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) during its passage through that House. The hon. Member said he was not opposed to the Union of Benefices Bill, He had thrown every obstacle in its way. After he (Mr. Bouverie) had undergone severe labour during the whole of two Wednesdays in his endeavour to get that Bill through, the hon. Member (Mr. Hubbard) proposed that the consent of the Archdeacon should be required. Thinking it likely that the reverend gentleman would take the same view as his Bishop, the Archbishop, the Capitular Bodies, and the Secretary of State, he did not deem it worth while to divide the House on the proposal, and not wishing to fight every point to the death, in an unguarded moment he had agreed to introduce the Archdeacon. Unfortunately, the hon. Member for Buckingham was more knowing than he bad been. He wanted to put a spoke in the wheel and stop the whole proceeding, and had succeeded in doing so. He
 1018 1019
 MR. COLLINS  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) must have misunderstood the Archdeacon on one point; for about a month ago, in a conversation which took place in the lobby of the House, the Archdeacon had informed him that, although the Union of Benefices Act was not a measure he should have originated, still he did not object to assist in carrying out its objects, and he would have given his sanction to the sale of the church in question provided it were not disposed of by public auction. The real question, therefore, before the Hou3e was not whether or not the sale of the church was to be stopped, but whether the name of the Archdeacon was to be expunged by the Bill merely because he differed from the other trustees and from the hon. Gentleman as to the mode in which the sale was to be effected. Personally he (the hon. Member) thought a great boon would be conferred upon the City of London by the union of the benefices, but he thought it would be preferable if the House were to take the reasonable scruples of the Archdeacon into consideration, and direct that the sale of the church should not take place by public auction, and that at least they
 1020
 MR. KNINAIRD  said, the Archdeacon, in his interview with the promoters of the scheme, had expressed his entire dissent from the scheme, and more particularly from the proposal for the sale by auction. After the consent of the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishop of London had been given to the scheme, if an insurmountable obstacle were raised which would prevent its being carried into effect it was but reasonable that Parliament should remove the impediment.
 MR. HENLEY  said, they were being plunged step by step into greater difficulties. The right hon. Member who had carried the original Bill through the House had made a most extraordinary observation when he stated that one of the provisions of the Bill had been foisted into it. After that Bill had received the approval of both Houses, and had become an Act of Parliament, were they now to deal with it in accordance with the preconceived notions of the person who brought it in? Neither the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) nor the hon. Member who last spoke (Mr. Kinnaird) had ventured to assert that any offer had been made to the Archdeacon to carry out the scheme without the sale by auction. That would have been a very simple thing to do, and he could not understand why, when a person objected to what he considered an indecent mode of carrying out a scheme for the public good gentlemen, honestly wishing to carry it out, should not have made an offer to remove the cause of objection. Instead of adopting that most reasonable and easy course the right hon. Gentlemen had brought in the present measure for the purpose of snuffing out the Archdeacon, who had chosen to refuse his sanction to an indecent mode of carrying out a good scheme. That was not a prudent mode of effecting an object of this kind on which there was sure to be great difference of opinion. Were the present Bill carried the next thing would be that an endeavour would be made to snuff out in like manner the Archbishop of Canterbury, and then the Bishop of London, and so, one after another, by disqualifying Bills, all those whose sanction was now required, until at length somebody or other would pull the churches down and put the money received from their sale into his own pocket. The right hon. Gentleman, instead of giving them any information re-
 1021
 MR. AYRTON  said, the original Act originated with a large number of the most influential and intelligent of the clergy of the metropolis, who thought it a scandal that there should be such a large number of richly endowed churches without congregations in the City, and he had stated at a meeting to take into consideration the spiritual destitution of the City that they had no case on which to go to the community while such a scandal existed in the metropolis. The Bishop of London, upon whom the matter was pressed by the clergy, then laid the question before the other House. It was a great misfortune that the right hon. Member (Mr. Bouverie), in his eagerness to pass the measure, should have permitted the introduction of a provision by which a subordinate functionary received power to interpose in such a manner that his veto might supersede the wish not only of his own bishop, but that of the Archbishop of Canterbury. If the Archdeacon entertained the opinion that a church once consecrated should never be devoted to any other purpose—a view which was not so generally recognized by the Church of England as by the church to which the hon. Member for Dundalk belonged—the House ought obviously to relieve him of a duty which did not harmonize with his opinions, and which he found it unpleasant to perform. It was remarkable that whenever an attempt had been made to get rid of a church in London for purposes of commerce or private profit there had never been any difficulty in the way. If a railway wanted the ground, churches, graves, and bones were got rid of with the greatest facility. This was the only occasion on which an attempt had been made to remove a church for a religious purpose, and it seemed to provoke a vast amount of animosity and opposition. In the present case, nobody was to make any money out of the removal, but spiritual wants alone were to be provided for and every
 1022 cujus est solum ejus est usque ad cœlum,
 MR. LYGON  said, that the Archdeacon in his letter to the Bishop of London used the following words:—"I have no objection to the taking down of the church, and disposing of the site; but there are different ways of doing the same thing." The Archdeacon did not there state that he objected to the principle of the act; on the contrary, he was ready to assent to the sale; but he disapproved of the proposal that it should take place by means of a public auction. The scheme, as prepared by the Bishop of London, was, that upon the union taking place, the Church
 1023
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he could assure his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) that no Nonconformist body had any intention of obtaining for itself possession of the site in question. It was true that on a former occasion he had proposed that a clause should be introduced into the Bill then before the House to the effect that the Nonconformists might secure one of the sites in question for a church whenever the Church of England was not in a position to purchase it. Perfect horror seized the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) when he made that proposal, and he believed that some fear existed in this case that the Nonconformists might be the purchasers. The Bishop of London had written asking him as a favour to withdraw the clause he had referred to, inasmuch as its insertion would peril the passing of the measure. And having mentioned the name of that right rev. Prelate he could not abstain from saying that he felt the most unbounded admiration of his career as a bishop, for, since he first came to fill the position which he now occupied with so much advantage to the Church, no man had done more to provide for the spiritual necessities of the metropolis. He entirely sympathized with the Bishop of London in the present case. The best way to obtain the largest sum for the same object was the question that evening before the House; and he, for one, was quite surprised to hear the objections made to the
 1024
 MR. T. G. BARING , in moving for leave to introduce this Bill, said, it would be in the recollection of the House that the Act of 1861 was founded on the Report made in 1860 by a Royal Commission, which had been appointed to inquire into the causes of the diminution in the quantity of salmon in the different rivers of England. Those who had read the Reports of the Inspectors under that Act were aware that it had been successful to an extent which could hardly have been expected considering the short time it had been in operation. There had been a considerable increase in the salmon since that time. But while the Act of 1861 had succeeded to a very considerable extent, those who had in different localities in England taken rivers under their protection found considerable difficulty in collecting funds for the purpose of carrying out to the full the provisions of the Act. It had been suggested frequently that some amendments should be introduced into the Act, in order to give power for the formation of bodies for the protection of salmon, and to give these
 1025 1026
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the Bill which he introduced last Session fully explained the way in which these Boards would be
 1027
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, though he joined with the rest of the House in urging his hon. Friend not to press the Bill, he could
 1033 1034
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member to move, when in Committee, the omission of Sheffield from the Bill. He would then insert it
 1035
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that the effect of opposing the going into Committee on the Bill would be to postpone all the other provisional Orders mentioned in the schedule.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he had not risen to offer any opposition to the first reading of the Bill, indeed he should have thought any BUCII intention unseemly—he, however, though abstaining from entering into the details of the measure, which had been with such clearness and succintness set forth by the hon. Member (Mr. Childers), could not refrain from expressing the surprise and regret he felt at the proposition for displacing the Governor and Lieutenant Governor from the positions they now held. The position of those officers, in his opinion, added greatly to the comfort and advantage of the Pensioners and the general resources of the Asylum. The inmates had immemorially been accustomed to regard these officers with reverence, either in having gallantly led them into action or from having been disabled or maimed like themselves in their country's service, and to maintain discipline and ensure the efficiency of the Institution. He would further observe the public had always associated these officers with the names of distinguished and successful Naval Commanders. He therefore trusted this matter would be re-considered before the Bill was submitted for a second reading.
 MR. LYGON  said, that with a great deal of what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman every body must agree. Having himself had an opportunity some time since of examining into the affairs of Greenwich Hospital, he had arrived at the conclusion
 1011
 MR. LYGON  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down how he proposed to constitute the Board of Conservancy. He quite agreed with what had been stated as to the beneficial working of the Act of 1861, but while it was desirable that Boards of Conservancy should be established, the House must bear in mind that there was another great question affecting our principal streams now under public consideration, and some comprehensive measure of legislation might be introduced, having reference to the drainage of towns into rivers, and perhaps giving powers to some public Boards to preserve them from pollution. It would, therefore, be wise to avoid imposing duties upon these Boards of Conservancy which other bodies might be appointed to carry out. It would be most inconvenient to have two public bodies having separate jurisdictions over the streams; and it might lead to similar confusion to that which we now saw in the streets of London. He concurred in what had been said as to the valuable services which had been rendered by the Inspectors of Fisheries.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that representing the landed property which formed the bulk of the Hospital estate, he felt a great interest in this subject, and was glad to be able to express his approval of much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Pontefract (Mr. Childers). At the same time, while approving generally of the scheme, he must guard himself against approving all the complicated details until he had an opportunity of considering the Bill. As to the future use to be made of the buildings at Greenwich they must not overlook the possibility of a future naval war, when a necessity for extra accommodation for wounded seamen would arise. It would therefore be necessary to keep many of the wards in a state of preparation for such contingency. With regard to the present surplus of the Hospital funds the amount of £11,000 a year did not exactly represent the real amount, as £2,000 was expended for insurances, and the remainder was funded to meet the contingency of an exhaustion of the minerals upon the Hospital estates. He understood that the future surplus under the proposed scheme would be only £13,000. The margin of £2,000
 1012
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he thought it would be convenient to defer any explanation of details until the Bill had been printed. He would only observe in answer to the question that had been asked about the disposal of the building at Greenwich, after the reduction in the number of inmates, that, as had been remarked by another hon. Member, in case of a naval war additional hospital accommodation would he needed, and the building would be reserved for that purpose. The hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir John Hay) seemed to think that the revenues of Greenwich Hospital were to be saddled with allowances to flag officers,
 1013
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that it was unfortunate the hon. Member (Mr. Laird) did not appear to have heard his statement when he brought in the Navy Estimates, as he then endeavoured to state the description of ships both built and building. He understood the hon. Member to express an opinion that it was desirable to combine small tonnage, armour-plating, heavy guns, and great speed. That was the very point which, as had been stated over and over again, the Admiralty considered to be fraught with great difficulty. A vessel of small tonnage might be made of great speed by giving her fine lines; but if made of great speed her buoyancy was, of course, by so much reduced, and therefore her power to carry heavy armour-plates. It was his duty to repeat this, notwithstanding that the hon. Member stated that some foreign nations were going to build vessels of 1.OOO tons, with full armour-plates, heavy guns, and with a speed of fourteen knots. [Mr. LAIRD: Vessels of 2,000 tons or, upwards.] Well, on the first night of the discussion on the Navy Estimates he stated that the Government hoped to build a vessel of about that tonnage on the twin-screw principle. He then said—
 "We propose to build at Pembroke an armour-plated corvette. She will be a vessel of about 3,000 tons, with a very light draught, or 16ft., and with twin screws, and we propose to make her at the water-line of a thickness of 6in. of iron and 10in. of wood, besides a ¾-inch inner skin of iron. We hope that she will be able to carry eight of these 12-ton guns."—[3  Hansard, Amazon Alabama, Alabama 1038
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : That was precisely what the Admiralty deemed to be necessary for their cruising vessels. Those vessels remained a considerable time absent from our ports at foreign stations; they performed a great part of their duties under sail, and it was of great importance that they should possess good sailing and stowage qualities. They proposed to arm the  Amazon Amazon
 MR. SELWYN  said, that having himself given notice of a similar Amendment, he had no hesitation in seconding that of the hon. Baronet, He objected to the details of the measure, to the manner in which it had been introduced, and still more to its principle. With regard to the details, a glance at the Bill would show how vague and unsatisfactory its provisions were. It was, therefore, unnecessary to trouble the House further on this point. With respect to the circumstances under which it had been introduced, the hon. Member deserved some credit for the ingenuity with which he had managed to evade the constitutional rule that no Bill to impose taxation should be introduced except by the Government. About six years ago, and during the present Parliament, he (Mr. Selwyn) brought in a measure in which he proposed to do away with the exemption from probate duty then existing in favour of estates exceeding one million, under which exemption in the case of a man who died worth £2,000,000 his representatives were not called upon to pay upon the second million, while a man who died worth £200 was called upon to pay probate duty on the second hundred. He was then told that a private Member ought not to bring in such a measure, and it was afterwards brought in and passed upon the responsibility of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. With respect to the principle of the Bill, a tax upon charities was really a tax on those who received the benefits of those charities. The present Bill did not impose a tax on the governors or trustees, but upon the poor inmates of almshouses and hospitals and other recipients of the charities. He had recently been told by a governor of one of the largest and best managed charities in the metropolis—King's College Hospital—that it was in such want of funds that the governors were unable to pay their weekly butchers' bills. Yet the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Thomson Hankey) proposed to put an additional tax upon charities of that kind, at a moment, too, when the House expected to hear from the Chancellor of the Exchequer such a flourishing account of the state of the public revenue, as would enable him considerably to reduce the burdens of the country. But if the present Bill had been brought in by Her Majesty's Government he should have objected to it on principle. The very question at issue had been four times previously decided by the House—in 1845, 1846, 1851, and 1852, and that
 1031
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the noble Secretary to the Admiralty had informed the House at an early stage of the discussion of the Navy Estimates that by the end of the year the country would have thirty-nine iron-clad vessels, and he wanted to know of what, in the opinion of the Government, the future British navy was to consist, because it was generally admitted that a wooden vessel could not compete in action with an iron-clad vessel. There was a large number of vessels belonging to the navy in various parts of the world, but those ships were, by the admission of all conversant with the subject, condemned as useless, and he therefore wished to know what class of vessels the country was in future to depend on for the defence of its commerce. Did the Government contemplate any further construction of iron-sheathed vessels than that which had been already announced, so as to place the British fleet in a position to entitle it to the name of a navy? There was another point on which
 1037
 MR. HADFIELD  declined the responsibility of moving the omission of Sheffield from the Bill. He had no objection to the principle of the Bill, which he wished should be proceeded with; what he wished was that the petitioners should have an opportunity of appealing against the application to Sheffield of the clause he had referred to.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the Bill proposed to take away an exemption in respect of rating at present enjoyed by houses of a certain small annual value in Sheffield. Two petitions had been presented against the repeal of this exemption, and though he approved the Bill generally, he thought the proper course under the General Local Government Act would be to refer the subject of this exemption and the right of the persons claiming it to a Select Committee, before whom they might be heard. He accordingly would move to this effect if the Speaker was of opinion that he could do so.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General, When he intends to bring in a Bill to repeal Obsolete Acts of Parliament in continuation of the Act of 1863?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he rose to ask leave to bring in a Bill to provide for the better government of Greenwich Hospital, and the more beneficial application of the revenues thereof. Towards the end of last Session, in a debate raised by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay), he had stated in general terms what were the views of the Government with respect to the future management of the Hospital and the application of its revenues. In a few words the position of the Hospital at that time was this—it was enjoying an income of £154,000 per annum, and the expenditure in connection with it was about £134,000, so that there was a surplus, real or apparent, of about £20,000. He said "real or apparent," because the real surplus was not so large; a portion of the income was only of a temporary nature, and provision was made for investing it. He stated the expenditure of the Hospital in connection with seamen and marines at £107,700, or £70 per head. He said that the Commissioners, in their Report, had stated that an endeavour should be made to increase the numbers in the Hospital from 1,600 to 2,300; but, in spite of every endeavour to increase the number by additional gratuities, additional advantages to married men, additional comforts in the Hospital and otherwise, instead of an increase, when he spoke in the beginning of June last year, there were only 1,508 inmates. He stated that the Admiralty had very carefully considered the whole subject, and the evidence taken by the Commission; and, having in view the opinion indicated by the Commissioners themselves—in the event of
 1003 quasi de novo, 1004 1005 1006 d. d d., 1007 1008 1009 1010
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the items in question were sums paid for armour-plates for the  Royal Alfred, Royal Alfred, s. d. s., 1040
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that those officers were expressly excepted; that they were to have the option of remaining where they were, and that that exception was mentioned in the Bill.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that, according to the Act, the proper course was to move that the Bill petitioned against should be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask for information respecting certain Votes for shipbuilding in the Royal Yards and by contract. It was just now a question of great interest whether vessels should be built of the same size as formerly, or of a smaller class; and he should like to know whether it was proposed to have small armourclad vessels combining great speed with the carriage of heavy guns. He was prepared to say that vessels of that kind could be built, and foreign Governments were providing themselves with vessels of 1,100 or 1,200 tons to carry the largest class of guns and steam at the rate of eleven or twelve knots. Other Governments were also preparing to provide vessels of 2,000 tons to carry two 600-pounders or four 300-pounders, steaming at the rate of twelve or thirteen knots. Vessels of that class, propelled by double screws and drawing a moderate draught of water—seventeen or eighteen feet—would run where our ships could not, and would be more formidable than anything we had. This was a subject which had excited a great deal of attention, and it was his distinct opinion that the proposition of the hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) could really be carried out—namely, that a vessel of about 1,600 tons could be built to carry a 600-pounder gun or two 300-pounders.
 1036 Warrior. Amazon Alabama, Alabama Alabama.
 MR. LAIRD : I said that she combined sailing and steaming qualities, so as to enable her to hold her position with other sailing vessels.
 MR. TAVERNER MILLER  said, that it had been announced that two hundred children would be present from the Middlesex Industrial School.
 MR. TAVERNER MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to a proposed Exhibition of Reformatory Children, to be held at the Agricultural Hall, Islington, from the 19th to the 25th May next, and whether it meets with his sanction and approbation? He might, perhaps, be allowed to add that the children had all been criminal offenders.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, he had no intention to wage war upon the charitable institutions of this country, or to impugn the conduct or attack in any way the character or efficiency of the Charity Commissioners, than whom no body of public officers had fulfilled their duties with greater benefit to the country. But he believed that the expenditure entailed by the working of that Commission ought not to be borne entirely out of public taxation. Those who applied to it and benefited by it should contribute. The nation at large was not interested in the business done on behalf of local charities; and it was, therefore, contrary to sound policy that the nation should bear the expense, especially as a large portion of the business which the Commission discharged was formerly transacted at great expense in the Court of Chancery. Some fees were attached to nearly every court, but on the part of the Commission no fees whatever were required upon the large business that it conducted. He quite admitted that no fees ought to be imposed which would act as a check upon persons bringing their accounts under inspection; but a great many cases of a totally different nature came before the Commissioners. Orders were made in 1,700 cases, of which a certain number were for authorizing applications to the Court of Chancery, to the County Courts, or to the courts of common law; others for the appointment and removal of trustees; some had reference to the issue of certificates for the information of the Attorney General, with a view to the institution by him of  ex officio 1028 1029
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to refer to the employment of pensioners in the War Office. Many of them were men of high character and some of literary attainments. A little addition to their pensions would keep them in their status, from which they would otherwise fall, and therefore he expressed his hearty concurrence in the proposition for their employment as emanating from the War Office. It was equally politic and philanthropic.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he concurred in the observations made in praise of the Charity Commissioners, who discharged their onerous duties most admirably. But the proceedings it the office were subject to great delay, and one of the grounds upon which he objected to the present Bill was that it would increase that delay which now formed a valid subject of complaint. He regretted that the hon. Member who introduced this Bill had not made his meaning more clear in reference to the charities which would be affected by this measure. That vagueness was not confined to mere figures, but extended to the language of the Bill itself. It was a great mistake to suppose that the charities of the country were of such a nature as justified the denuncialtion which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had employed in the now historica-speech which had been referred to. From the 11th Report of the Charity Commissioners, published last year, it appeared that the total revenues of the charities in ten counties amounted to £430,000, and of that sum upwards of £150,000 was devoted to schools. The endowed schools of the country were now suffering under great pressure in consequence of the action of the Privy Council; yet this was the time selected by the hon. Member for trying to impose a heavy burden upon them. The hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) would hardly support the second reading of the Bill, seeing that there were no less than £5,200 a year belonging to Dissenting schools and chapels which would fall under the operation of the measure. Another objection to the Bill was, that it would to a great extent involve a breach of trust, because upon the faith of what had been said in that House, and believing that no great change in the law would take place, the governors of charities had vested no less than £1,634,045 in the hands of the official trustees for various purposes. For these and other reasons he hoped the House would unanimously reject the Motion for the second reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, his attention had not been drawn to this subject, nor had he heard of any intention to hold such an exhibition till yesterday, when the hon. Gentleman was good enough to inform him of the Notice he had placed on the paper, in order that his attention might be called to it. This morning, however, he had received by post a printed paper, stating that the exhibition, about to take place, was an exhibition of the products of the industry of children in Reformatories, and that on a certain day one thousand of the children would perform certain pieces of music, such as the Morning and Evening Hymn. He certainly entirely agreed with what he understood to be the feeling of the hon. Gentleman, that it was most inexpedient that children who had been convicted of crime and sent to Reformatories should be made a public exhibition of in this manner. He had, therefore, sent to Mr. Turner, the Inspector of Reformatories, to know whether he was aware of the intention to hold such an exhibition. He had not been able himself to see Mr. Turner, but he understood from him that no child who was an inmate of any Government Reformatory would he present—the children proposed to be present at the exhibition were wholly unconnected with Reformatories certified by the Government or receiving any grant from Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that was not a certified Reformatory. It existed under an Act which there was a Bill now before Parliament to amend; but it was not a certified Reformatory, and received nothing from the Government.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to give his general concurrence to the scheme, but he agreed with some of the remarks of his hon. Friend the Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell). It seemed to him that the Treasury should not be relieved to the extent of £14,000 a year out of the £20,000 how paid by the country towards the maintenance of the Hospital. That would be appropriating charity money to State purposes, which he thought the House would not sanction. He thought the reduction in the flag list of officers was in the right direction, but he did not think that the cost should be paid out of the Hospital revenues. The sum to be paid back into the Treasury ought, in his opinion, to be funded in order to meet the possible increase of accommodation that might be required for wounded seamen in time of war. All these, and other points which had been referred to, were matters of detail, and could be better considered at a future stage of the Bill. He was glad to find that the monastic seclusion to which seamen had been condemned in Greenwich Hospital would be done away with, and that they would be allowed to enjoy their pensions at their own homes.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he believed the noble Lord had expressed one or two opinions which he might venture to cal
 1039 Royal Sovereign, Amazon
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he thought the hon. Member had succeeded in making out a very strong case against the Bill; for he had shown the House that the question was whether the expenses of a Government Department should be paid by the State at large, or out of charitable funds. There was a strong feeling in this country against the taxation of charities, and this was not the first time that a similar attempt had been made. In 1845, and again in 1846, Bills were introduced to establish Boards of Charitable Commissioners, and to provide for their payment by means of taxation upon charities. These Bills, however, were on each occasion successfully resisted by the great charitable interests of the country. In 1851 and 1852 similar Bills were introduced, but they met with the like fate, and the Government were at length compelled to concede that the expenses of the Charity Commission should he met out of the public Exchequer. It was not until the Government yielded to the general wish that the expenses of the Commission should be defrayed out of the public purse that the House passed a Bill sanctioning the appointment of the Commission. It was proposed by this Bill that all the former legislation on the subject should be revised. His hon. Friend should have left the Government to deal with this question, which was one of considerable importance to the charities. Being a question of taxation, it came within its province, rather than within that of a private Member. Many of them made returns of very small amount, and the tax now imposed would be practically and in the aggregate a large one, being directed against the poorest classes of the community. The expenses of the Education Department, of the Poor Law Board, and other similar Departments, were paid out of the public funds, and why should a different rule be established in the case of charities? He wished his hon. Friend had tried his hand on a more popular measure, and he trusted that the House would unanimously support him in moving that the Bill be read a second time that day six months.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was not inclined, as far as his own personal feeling and opinion went, to offer any objection to the second reading of this Bill; without, however, in any way committing himself as to the course he should take if it reached a later stage without amendment. At the same time he sympathized to some extent with the observation of his hon. Friend behind (Mr. Neate) that it was not altogether satisfactory to deal piecemeal with this, which was a portion of a larger and more general subject—the relation of the Inns of Court to the Bar, and the administration of justice in the country. But his hon. Friend did not appear to bear in mind what had already been done in the way of inquiry on that subject. He
 1050 "To inquire into the arrangements in the Inns of Court for promoting the study of Law and Jurisprudence, the revenues properly applicable, and the means most likely to secure a systematic and sound education for students of law, and provide satisfactory tests of fitness for admission to the Bar."—[3  Hansard, 1051 "Retain their present powers with reference to the calling of students to the Bar, and the disbarring of persons after their call, subject to the appeal to the Judges."—[ Ibid. bonâ fide 1052 1053
 MR. BARING  said, he thought the proviso sufficient to meet the case mentioned by the hon. Gentleman, but, if it were not, he would take care that any requisite alteration should be made.
 MR. BARING  said, that the question was one of considerable importance, and had been referred to by Major General Cartwright, one of the Inspectors of Constabulary, in his Report made during the present year to the Home Office. With that gentleman's able assistance tables had been drawn up in order to ascertain the present condition and probable exhaustion of the various county and borough superannuation funds. Forms had been circulated throughout the counties and boroughs, which when filled up and returned to the Home Office would afford valuable information on the subject. The forms when returned would be handed to Dr. Farr, who would make a Report upon them, and then the whole question was intended to be laid before a Commission to be appointed to consider the way in which the superannuation funds should be dealt with, and to recommend any alterations in the present system they might think it necessary should be adopted. He agreed in the propriety of the clauses proposed by the hon. Gentleman, but there would be considerable difficulty in carrying them out. The Bill was only intended to remedy some small defects in the existing Act, and he hoped the hon. Gentleman would rest satisfied with the answer he had given, that the matter was under the consideration of the Secretary of State, and would not press the clause.
 MR. BARING  stated, that the Committee, the appointment of which he recommended, would consider only the superannuation of the county, and not that of the metropolitan police.
 MR. JACKSON  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there could be no doubt whatever as to the desirability of the object sought to be obtained by the Bill, which was to extend as far as possible the facilities for traffic between the north and south sides of the river, and to abolish the tolls. The whole question for consideration was as to the best means by which that object could be obtained. The Government had no objection to the second reading of this Bill upon the understanding that it should be referred to a Select Committee, which would have the power of inquiring into the whole subject. He hoped from the concluding sentence of the hon. Member that the City of London would be found rich enough to effect the object of the Bill without taxing their neighbours. The Government would object to the 6th clause by which an additional duty of 1 d.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to make one or two observations, inasmuch as his name was on the back of the Bill. It had been placed there simply because it was on the back of the Bill of last year, which was a very different measure from that now before the House. He was not at all pleased with the present Bill, because it proposed to tax in an especial degree his constituents, who, while they would be very well content to pay a general rate levied throughout the whole metropolis for the abolition of tolls, objected to the extra duty of 1 d. s. s. 1057
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had not the slightest objection to the course suggested by the Secretary for the Home Department. He believed it was the wish of the House that if the Bill passed a second reading, it would be on the understanding that they should not pledge themselves to a single clause in it. They merely desired to express a general opinion that it was extremely desirable that the tolls upon these bridges should be abolished, provided proper means were found for accomplishing that object without doing an injustice to any one. One objection to the Bill was that it was not sufficiently comprehensive. There was a bridge in the borough which he represented afflicted with such a toll that the collector felt it necessary to arm himself with a red-hot poker with the view of enforcing the money from those who might attempt to escape. Such a bridge as that ought to be included either in the present Bill or in any inquiry that might take place. Another omission was the toll upon roads. He could not discover the distinction in principle between the toll upon roads and that upon bridges. They were equally objectionable. Roads were found in the middle of London where poisons had to pay a rate of toll which caused a greater obstruction to traffic than that levied on the bridges. It was desirable, therefore, that in any further inquiry into this subject, the whole question of tolls on roads and bridges should be referred to a Select Committee, in order that it should be ascertained whether any means could be devised for
 1058
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he was afraid, by assenting to the second reading, that the House would be embarking upon a dangerous course of action in regard to the question involved. It appeared to him that it might be subsequently thrown in their teeth by the promoters of this Bill that the House, in assenting to the second reading, had sanctioned a principle which they considered an important step gained. The mode of obtaining the money for carrying out the objects desired was so mixed up with the main question that it was difficult to separate them. It appeared, therefore, to him that it would be a better course to appoint a Select Committee to consider the whole question of metropolitan tolls, rather than to proceed as by this measure by piecemeal. As to the mode in which it was proposed to supply the funds which would be required in consequence of the abolition of tolls, he had to remind them that there was already levied on coal brought into the metropolis a tax of not less than 1 s. d.
 MR. JACKSON  said, that the Bill fell short of the desired object. It did not embrace a sufficient area or include a suf-
 1059
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he did not see why the metropolis should not be placed on the same footing as the counties throughout England with reference to bridges, where the expense of building and maintenance was paid out of the county rate. By adopting the present Bill, though the tax of 1 d.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it was agreed on all hands that it was advisable to get rid of tolls as far as possible, whether in London or elsewhere, and the question was simply as to how the object was to be carried out. It had been agreed that this Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, on the understanding that the House should not be pledged to any of the provisions of the Bill, and the Committee would simply consider how these tolls could be done away with. He had the greatest possible objection to an extra duty being put upon coals, or a special tax upon those persons who did not go about in carriages to relieve those who did. Nothing could be more absurd than the 9th clause of the Bill, which gave the Metropolitan Board of Works power to levy a special tax upon vestries and districts in which the bridges were situated. He had presented several petitions against this proposal from the inhabitants in the Strand, and he would ask how the Strand could be supposed to be benefited more than any other district in the metropolis from the opening of Waterloo Bridge to free traffic. To put a special tax upon the Strand ratepayers for such an object would be most unjust. He agreed with the hon. Baronet opposite, that a county rate ought to be levied, if necessary, for the object of the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that on the introduction of the original Bill the promoters of the measure appeared to be very much in love with the Secretary of State, for in spite of his opposition to the plan the regulation of these locomotives had been lodged in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman. He wished for an explanation why the supervision of the use of locomotives on roads by the Secretary of State for the Home Department was to be dispensed with and no other provision of a similar character made. He was opposed to the Secretary of State being made supervisor of the actions of the whole of the community, and he was glad that that part of the Act had broken down. He hoped that in future no Bills brought before the House would allow the Secretary of State to exercise a similar power. He should very much like to see some provision made with reference to the exceptional condition of the metropolis, where the horse and carriage traffic was so much greater than in ordinary towns. He should like, therefore, to receive from the hon. Member who had charge of this Bill an assurance of the introduction of some special clause referring to this point. The slower these engines travelled the greater obstruction would they offer to the ordinary traffic, and he almost believed that in the metropolis a speed of ten miles an hour would be better than two, as less obstruction would ensue.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he de-
 1061 1062
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, that during the last seven years locomotives had been used in the streets of Rochester and Chatham without any danger having arisen, and he had received a certificate from the municipal authorites stating that during the seven years they had been so employed no accident had occurred. They were used in the narrow streets of Rochester and Chatham, and also in what was called the "Khyber Pass," the very narrow street, which connected Chatham with Rochester, and no accidents had resulted therefrom. He had continually met them in the street, and they passed his own door day after day. Horses soon became perfectly accustomed to their appearance, and were much more liable to fright on passing underneath a screened bridge with a locomotive passing overhead than they were on meeting the engines in the streets. Leamington and Warwick were both famed for hunting, which was extensively engaged in in the neighbourhood of these towns. Consequently the number of high-spirited horses was much larger in these towns than would usually be found elsewhere, and yet the continual use of locomotives had only been attended, to his knowledge, by one accident, and in that instance the locomotive was passing over a screened bridge.
 MR. HOLLAND  consented.
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he should be sorry to oppose so valuable a Bill as respected agricultural interests, but they had a duty to perform to the public, whose safety they had charge of. He thought that the man ought to walk some distance in advance of the engine, and that the safety of the public would not be insured by a distance of sixty yards between the attendant and the engine itself. He believed that 100 yards would be better, and he therefore moved an Amendment securing that provision.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he believed sixty yards to be far enough. The word "precede" would be quite sufficient. A man at the distance of 100 yards would often not be seen at all by the driver of the engine, especially near towns. It would therefore practically be of no advantage.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was glad to perceive a disposition on the part of the House to regard with some favour the interests of the agriculturists, who as a class did not generally receive that consideration from the House to which they were entitled. He believed that the safety of the public would be best secured by the attendant walking immediately in advance of the engine instead of at so great a distance as sixty yards. He thought the words "on foot" should be retained, omitting either the "sixty yards" or the "100 yards."
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that there appeared to be a panic with reference to the safety of the public, especially when it was borne in mind that these engines had constantly been travelling about the country for years. Horses were much more apt to take fright from seeing the heaps of stones which were usually kept at the sides of roads and the "guys" who were employed in breaking them up than they were at the sight of these engines. The locomotives generally travelled only from farm to farm, and he could not therefore see any necessity for compelling the attendant to precede the engine either by sixty or 100 yards.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought the attendant might as well he in the next parish as precede the engine by 100 yards. He believed it would be absurd to specify the precise distance at which the man should walk, and he should therefore move the insertion of the words "not more than sixty yards."
 MR. JOHN HARDY  said, that 100 yards was not an inch too far, as a horse and carriage driving rapidly in a narrow lane would occasionally be upon the engine before its proximity could be ascertained in sufficient time to prevent an accident. He should certainly vote for the man's preceding the engine by at least sixty yards.
 MR. WARNER  said, the real security to the public lay in the liability which the owners of these engines incurred in case of accident, and that the danger arising from noise in working and other similar causes might be obviated in the manufacture of the locomotives.
 MR. D. ROBERTSON  said, that the best plan would be to postpone the Bill for the present. He thought that the regulation of the locomotives should be left to the local authorities, who would best be able to determine what was necessary.
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he thought it hardly possible that the Committee could decide accurately the precise distance at which the attendant should precede the locomotive. In a straight road in the country it might be desirable that the man should be 100 yards or even more in advance, but in a town or in a narrow lane with turnings, the distance would oftentimes be curtailed with much advantage.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that unless the attendant were compelled to precede the engine he would, except in a town, be in all probability usually engaged in conversation with the man on the engine.
 MR. FELLOWES  then moved to insert 100 instead of sixty yards.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the Amendment would defeat the hon. Gentleman's object.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, it would be better to leave the responsibility upon the persons in charge of engines.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  proposed to add the words—
 "All superfluous steam shall be condensed in such a manner as that no steam shall blow off while the locomotive is upon the road."
 MR. HOLLAND  said, he thought there was no necessity for the Amendment, as there was no difficulty in rendering locomotives harmless upon roads. The protection of the public had been fully considered by those who had drawn up the Bill.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, if the Committee did not accept his Amendment, he must leave the responsibility for any danger that might arise to those who opposed it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the House, in sanctioning the use of these locomotives under certain restrictions, should
 1066 "Provided that nothing herein contained shall affect the right of any person to recover damages in an action at law in respect of any injury or damages sustained by him in consequence of the use of such locomotive."
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to call attention to the provision in the clause affixing penalties upon conviction for certain acts, but it did not appear what parties were to be liable to those penalties. It could not always be the owner of the machine, because he might send out the proper number of attendants, and one of them might neglect his duty, in which case it would be unjust to punish the owner.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought the clause did require some amendment in the case suggested by the hon. Gentleman, and it should be considered before the Report.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped the clause would be made more clear, because, as it stood, he could not tell who would be responsible for anything. As the words "not more" had been introduced, it seemed as though the men in charge of the engine should have a string round their wrist to prevent them from exceeding the limit of distance and exposing themselves to the mercies of informers.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to call the attention of the hon. Member in charge of the Bill to the words in this clause which were different from those of the second clause. In the second clause the words "turnpike road or public highway" were used, but in the clause the words were "turnpike or other road." As a different construction would be placed upon the different words, he should propose to strike out the word "other" and insert "public highway."
 MR. FELLOWES  said, that as the locomotive machines might be nine feet in width, and the lanes and by-roads some-
 1067
 MR. WYKEHAM MARTIN  said, he believed that the agricultural machines now drawn by horses upon roads were wider than locomotives, and, moreover, locomotives could back out, which could not be done by horse-power.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, the Amendment, if carried, would prevent the use of locomotives in Devonshire and Somersetshire, where narrow roads abounded.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that if the engines could back so easily there ought to be something in the Bill to make it clear that they were to be the parties who were to back, and not the others.
 MR. GREENWOOD  said, that though no doubt the Bill would confer a great benefit on other interests besides the agricultural interest, the House must take care that this was not done at the expense of the smaller ratepayers. In the former Bill no provision was made for meeting the increased cost of repairing the roads which would be necessitated by the passage of these heavy locomotives over them. He hoped that omission would be remedied in the present Bill. As to backing, how could one of these engines back with a train of four or five trucks behind it?
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he thought there was no doubt which would have to give way in practice; for the engine could back while the cart could not.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the difficulty often occurred in London where two carts or waggons met in a narrow street which did not afford room for them to pass each other. The drivers after squabbling for more or less time, got out of the difficulty in their own way, and it might be left equally to the common sense of country carters to do the same.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman that in London there was always a policeman about.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the effect of the clause was to allow engines of nine feet width and fourteen tons weight
 1068
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask for information as to why engines of nine feet width and fourteen tons weight were fixed upon by the framers of the Bill. When they recollected that over many country roads there were bridges of a very weak construction, it became a matter of serious consideration whether such heavy engines should be allowed.
 MR. HUNT  proposed to add a proviso making it incumbent on the drivers of locomotives to back out whenever they might meet other vehicles in a road too narrow for them to pass each other.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the proviso would only create confusion and vexation.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press it.
 MR. FELLOWES  said, that he objected to the removal of these restrictions.
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, that if this clause were struck out of the Bill, it would be tantamount to depriving farmers of the use of these engines for ploughing purposes.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he thought there could be no harm in allowing these engines to be used within the prohibited distance, if the ordinary precautions were taken.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that there was no safeguard whatever provided by the Bill to protect the public from danger.
 MR. DENT  said, that the double engine system was now found to be the most profitable method of steam cultivation, and if this clause were not passed twenty-live yards of every field which bordered on a
 1069
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he did not see why these engines when used for ploughing should be treated with more favour than a thrashing engine, which was not allowed to be at work within twenty-five yards of the road except under a screen.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought the risk of one of these engines being at work within twenty-five yards of the road was no greater than that caused by level crossings, which were now permitted all over the country. Horses, in fact, were getting more used every day to steam-engines and their noises, and were not so apt to be frightened by them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that that was the case, but he thought there must always be danger when an engine was at work so near the road. If the engine when it got into the field was to be fixed, why could it not be placed on the side furthest away from the road? If that could not be done with convenience, he thought the safety of the public would be best consulted by leaving the law as it at present stood.
 MR. HOLLAND  said, he should have no objection to add the following words to the clause:—
 "Provided a person shall be stationed in the road, and employed to signal the engine driver when it shall be necessary to stop and to assist horses and carriages drawn by horses in passing the same."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask what was the object of saying that the summons should be served seven days before the hearing? Ordinarily petty sessions in the country were held weekly; and the provision in question would have the effect of postponing a decision for a fortnight. Unless there was good reason for a contrary course, he hoped the clause would be omitted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill followed the course prescribed by the Act—the Locomotives Act 1861—which it was intended to amend. The clause was unnecessary.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the existing Act contained the clause (which restricted the Act to Great Britain), which it was therefore unnecessary to re-enact.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished the provisions of the Bill to be extended to Ireland, and proposed to bring up a clause on the Report to effect that object.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the clause gave no control whatever over the passage of locomotive engines in large towns. He proposed that the local authorities in the metropolis, and in large cities, should have power to draw up certain rules on the subject, which should be approved by the Secretary of State. He objected to the Secretary of State issuing regulations at the instance of the police authorities.
 MR. HOLLAND  said, the promoters of the Bill had no objection to meet the views of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets so far as they related to the metropolitan area, but a good deal of inconvenience might arise were engines used for agricultural purposes compelled to make a long round out of their direct course in order to avoid all the large county towns.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets would lead the House to imagine that the Secretary of State never consulted any persons but the police with reference to the regulations necessary to be issued respecting locomotive engines; but the truth was that no order had ever been made in reference to them except at the request of the local authorities, backed by the magistrates of the district, and by the chief constable of the district. No order of the kind had ever been made at the sole instance of the police. He thought some provisions ought to be made for the control of those engines in large county towns as well as in the metropolis. He suggested, therefore, that the hon. Member should bring up a clause on the Report to that effect. He wished the local municipal authorities in every city and borough
 1071
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, that such authority should he limited to towns having more than 50,000 inhabitants.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must object to such a limitation.
 MR. HOLLAND  said, he would take care that the wishes of the Committee on this point should be attended to.
 MR. BARING  proposed to add to the end of the clause the words—
 "Provided that nothing in this Act contained shall diminish or prejudice the allowances or rights of any chief, or head-constable, or other constable, given or reserved by the 15th section of the Police Act, 1859."
 MR. NEATE  seconded the Amendment. He thought a sufficient case had not been made out by the hon. Baronet for any alteration in the constitution of the Inns of Court. The Benchers, as a body, formed a better tribunal than any Judicial Committee could be. If the subject were at all dealt with, it would be more desirable that the whole powers of the Inns of Court and the trusts reposed in or assumed by them should be inquired into in a full and comprehensive manner. He did not wish the House should in any way pledge itself, either by conferring new rights on the Inns of Court or by subjecting them to new restrictions, to recognize the expediency of continuing their powers.
 MR. HOWES  then moved that the following new clauses be added to the Bill:—
 1072 "The liability of the police rate in counties, and of the borough fund or borough rates in boroughs, to make good any insufficiency of the superannuation fund under the eleventh section of the Police Act, 1856, or the twelfth section of the Police Act, 1859, shall commence and take effect when and as from time to time the annual income of the superannuation fund shall be insufficient to pay the charges thereon. "Any fee payable to any constable appointed for any county for the performance of any act done in the execution of his duty as such constable, shall be received in such manner as the chief constable of the county shall direct, and shall be paid over to the superannuation fund." corpus
 MR. HOWES  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to ask what would be the nature and object of the Committee to be appointed.
 MR. MOOR  said, he wished to draw attention to the case of the Brighton old police, who had subscribed to the superannuation fund, and whose rights did not appear to be sufficiently protected, although they had been reserved in the General Police Act.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was not a little astonished at finding the Bill supported by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield. It appeared to him that no case whatever had been made out in favour of the measure. Indeed, both Mover and Seconder admitted that up to the present time nothing could be better than the existing tribunal. But there might be somebody or other not satisfied with it; and to soothe the mind of that somebody, who had not yet been pointed out, they were to adopt a totally different system. Why should they refer the powers of the Benchers of the Inns of Court to a Select Committee? If he were accused before his Inn he should prefer being tried by the whole body rather than by a selected few of them. The hon. and learned Baronet saw the impropriety of this, for he gave the accused the power of objecting to more than half of the tribunal. What, then, was the use of all this? Where any man was brought up before the Benchers and stated an objection to any of their number, that Bencher invariably retired. In a case which occurred in the Inner Temple last year objection was made to more than one of the Benchers, and they retired from the inquiry. He had thought this was a permissive Bill; but it was no such thing. By the third clause nothing of importance could be done except by this judicial Committee. That clause enacted that—
 "No barrister shall be disbarred or suspended from practice, no barrister or other member of any Inn shall be expelled from such Inn, and no student shall be refused to be called to the Bar, and no person shall be refused admission as a student to any Inn of Court, except by decision of a judicial Committee elected under the provisions of this Act." 1048 1049
 MR. ROEBUCK,  in seconding the Motion, said, he thought the Bill an exceedingly good one. The former attempt of his hon. and learned Friend at legislation on that subject was of a different character, and he had been quite prepared to oppose it. The present measure, however, would give such powers to the Inns of Court as they now wanted, and as would render them what they ought to be—an efficient judicial tribunal. He was glad his hon. and learned Friend had not brought any charge against the Inns of Court. He must say that if they were merely to judge of the tribunal by its effects, it had as it stood attained all the ends for which any tribunal ought to be instituted. They ought to recollect that the Bar of England was overlooked by the Inns of Court, and he appealed to the House and to the world at large, whether there was anything in the result but honour to the Inns of Court. Two classes might be referred to in support of his assertion—the Judges of England—the advocates of England. He asked his hon. and learned Friend to look the world over and pick out any body of men superior, he might almost say equal, to the Judges in this country. As Judges they were above suspicion. He did not mean to say they had always been so; but they had kept pace with the growing improvement of mankind and the advancing march of civilization, and they stood unchallengable as far as both intellect and honour were concerned. So far as regarded the first-class; then as to the advocates, he said the character of the English Bar was such that no slur could be cast on it. There was no man, however
 1046 1047
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, he wished briefly to explain the Present state of the law, and the remedy which he proposed to apply to its defects. The Benchers of the Inns of Court exercised a very important jurisdiction of a criminal nature. They had a right to hear and determine complaints and charges against their own members; they had power to refuse admission to their Inn of Court to a person seeking such admission, and thereby of excluding him from a very lucrative and most important profession; they had the power, after a student had complied with all the regulations of the House, and so entitled himself to his call,
 1041 1042 1043 1044 forum domesticum 1045
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that he should be perfectly ready to consider, and if possible concur in any amendments that might be proposed in Committee by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General. He had referred to the case of Mr. Daniel Whittle Harvey for the purpose of showing that the Benchers could not satisfactorily administer justice without the power of compelling the attendance of witnesses. In that case a witness refused to attend before the Benchers; the Select Committee upstairs, however, compelled his attendance, heard his evidence, and recorded their opinion that probably the Benchers would have come to the same conclusion with the Committee if they had possessed the power of compelling his attendance, and had heard his testimony. The Attorney General had admitted that the Benchers were too numerous, and it was therefore difficult to secure in any case the attendance of the same Judges throughout. Admitting that no special complaint had been made against the present system, be contended there were strong arguments for some change. The hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) had made a speech worthy of the days of Lord Eldon, and bad used the old Tory arguments in favour of the present system, He (Sir George Bowyer) believed he had made out a case for some alteration, and he was perfectly ready to allow the Bill to go into Committee, and to take into consideration the suggestion made by the Attorney General, and he hoped his hon. and learned Friend would not press his Amendment, but allow the Bill to pass a second reading.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, that if
 1073
 MR. WHITE : Sir, with the greatest respect for the high authority of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I regret to say I differ from him in accepting the magnitude of our exports as an infallible test of the prosperity of the country. I cannot admit that the greatness of a nation's exports is a significant or sufficient criterion of the aggregate well-being of a people. The right hon. Gentleman, as a proof of our superior prosperity, has adduced the fact that the exports of Holland and Belgium have not increased in the same ratio as our own, but he has forgotten that the social condition of the great bulk of the population of those small but flourishing kingdoms is incontestably better than our own. We all know the vast value of the exports of the Southern States of the American Union prior to the civil war, yet who would aver that the slaves—the producers of those great staples, cotton, tobacco, and sugar—shared in the wealth which their own labour had created? To come nearer home, I must say that this assumption of the right hon. Gentleman is negatived by the fact that Ireland largely exported articles of food when her own inhabitants were in the very agonies of a famine. The best test to my mind of the prosperity of a country does not consist in the magnitude of its exports, but in the social well-being and comfort of the great bulk of the community. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has told us that the condition of the country is prosperous and satisfactory. Glad should I be could I concur with this view of the case, but I cannot do so, when from the official report of the medical officer of the Privy Council I learn that quite one-fifth of the whole population obtain, owing to the scantiness of their earnings, too little food to keep them in proper health and vigour. Has not the recent report of Dr. Hunter on the Public Health told us that the household accommodation and domestic circumstances of a large portion of the labouring classes is
 1129 "That the English field labourer has no parallel in the civilized portion of the earth. Paint his life in the darkest colours, and you have not even then described the wretchedness of his condition." s. 1130 1131 1132 1133 prestige
 MR. J. B. SMITH  regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not taken this opportunity of repealing the timber duty. It was an indefensible anomaly that we should admit the manufactured article free of duty, and impose a tax upon the raw material, more especially as timber was now the only raw material upon the importation of which any duty was levied. He was aware that it would have been impossible this year to repeal this duty without making a corresponding reduction in our expenditure; but the expenditure was, in his opinion, far beyond what it ought to
 1146
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving that the Bill be now read a second time, said, that in a former Session they had had a full discussion upon the subject to which it related, and there was a good deal of difference of opinion among Scotch Members in respect to it, and he therefore thought it due to them that he should explain the grounds upon which it was now introduced to the House. It was well known that in Scotland there had existed for two centuries or more—certainly as far back as 1617—a system of land registration not only as respects the conveyance of land, and the mortgage of land, but of all deeds affecting the transfer of land; in consequence of which all those who might be interested in such transfer had the means of ascertaining the burdens which might exist upon any particular land proposed to be transferred. No doubt so far as regarded certainty and security of title the system had been to a large extent a very complete system of registration; but it had this one great defect—namely, that the expenses attending it were very great; and the object of this Bill was to diminish those expenses, to put the system
 1157 1158 1159 1160
 MR. DUNLOP  said, the House will perceive that there is a Bill in the paper standing in my name on the same subject. We differ only in the mode in which we seek to secure the same object—namely, a register and an index that will really facilitate persons who may use them. It certainly was not his (Mr. Dunlop's) fault that the learned Lord Advocate should meet with any opposition to his Bill. The House knew it was always the custom of the Scotch Members to treat business of this kind in such a manner as to avoid anything like the introduction of competing Bills. The learned Lord, however, did not think it right upon this occasion to summon the Scotch Members to give their opinion on the question, and when he called the attention of the Government to the fact, and suggested that both the Bills would be sent to a Committee so that their details might be examined and one mea-
 1161 1162 onus 1163 1164 1165
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that when the question was last before the House, considerable discussion took place upon it; but of all the Members for Scotland pro-sent at that debate, with the exception of the Lord Advocate and his Colleague, the representative of Edinburgh, and the then learned Member for Bute (Mr. Mure), not a single voice was raised in favour of the Lord Advocate's Bill, which by some was designated a centralizing Bill. On that occasion they had only one proposal—that of the Lord Advocate based, as he said, on the Report of the Commissioners. On this occasion they had the advantage of having a converse proposition before us from the hon. Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop)—that the system which had existed in Scotland for the registration of land rights for the last two and a half centuries was as perfect as it possibly could be. That was a fact admitted by the Commissioners themselves; and which was also admitted by the Lord Advocate last Session, the only one defect being that of registration. The question now at issue was a very narrow one—namely, which of the systems proposed in the two Bills now before the House was the one which would lead to the greatest saving of expense, and was the best and most efficient plan. Now, in his opinion the Bill of the Lord Advocate was a revolutionary measure; whereas, that of the hon. Member for Greenock removes the blots and defects which existed, and which were the cause of unnecessary expense, without dealing with the question in a revolutionary spirit. It treats the question in accordance with the habits of the people
 1166 1167
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  seconded the Amendment.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought this was rather an early hour at which to propose an adjournment; but, at the same time, provided his hon. Friend would assist him in endeavouring to come to some arrangement with respect to the discussion, he would not object to the adjournment. The Bill could be put down as the First Order of the Day after the Motion for the Committee of Supply tomorrow.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the  Achilles 1082 Achilles Warrior Achilles
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had never been more sanguine than on the present occasion; but despite the right hon. Gentlemans sanguine anticipations that after the speech which he had delivered that evening he should never again hear, either in the House or out of it, the arguments which had been used against the retention of the malt tax at its present amount, he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that all the arguments which had induced him to recommend the diminution of that duty remained in full force. He had never heard any remarks of the right hon. Gentleman which were more full of fallacies and assumptions than those which he had made that evening with reference to the malt tax. After having endeavoured to show that unless they went very deeply into the reduction of the tax they had better leave it alone, the right hon. Gentleman referred to no less than four sources of diminution of revenue, the last of which was the article of spirits, and he argued that the revenue would lose as much or more by the decrease of the consumption of spirits as it would gain by the increase of that of beer. Was there ever an assumption so entirely and absolutely without proof? At the very best it could only be an as-
 1147 pari passu 1148 1149 1150
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that he had no reason to believe that the Firman delivered by the Emperor of Morocco to Sir Moses Montefiore had been withdrawn. On the contrary, he believed that the Emperor of Morocco had the strongest desire to carry out the Firman, but it was quite possible that some of the local authorities, imperfectly acquainted with the wishes of the Emperor, might have exceeded their authority. Sir Moses Montefiore, whom he had met about two days previously, had brought with him a communication from some Jews in Morocco, stating that the persons arrested had been released. He believed that the accounts which had appeared in the newspapers had been much exaggerated, and Sir Moses Montefiore expressed his satisfaction at what had been done. Frequent cases of oppression had occurred in Morocco, but, as far as he was aware, the Emperor wished in no way to depart from the Firman which he had delivered to Sir Moses Montefiore.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that he had seen the report of the case in the newspapers, but he was not yet perfectly informed as to the details; but he had already sent for the depositions taken before the Coroner, and should shortly know what had precisely occurred. As soon, however, as he saw the report, he had requested an Inspector to make in-
 1083
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had listened with great interest to the very eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman, but he wished he could say that his satisfaction had equalled his interest. He was some what amused to observe that the first class of persons for whom the right hon. Gentleman had thought proper to express his beneficent intentions were the special
 1134 1135 1136 1137
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that on the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer's own showing, he had the means of making an important reduction of the malt duty; but, on the contrary, the right hon. Gentleman had gone out of his way to show that he was not inclined to conciliate the good feelings of the agricultural class. He had never been one to contend that, with such an Imperial expenditure as we had to meet, beer was an unfit subject for taxation; and he admitted that it would be difficult to relieve beer altogether from taxation so long as alcoholic drinks were subject to taxation. Although, therefore, it would be difficult to remit the duty altogether, he thought it would be far better if it were levied on beer instead of malt. He was inclined to think that if the malt tax had been one that affected the trading and manufacturing interests it would long ago have been readjusted. A tax on beer instead of on malt would be acceptable to the farmers, and would prevent them feeling that their interests were not duly considered by the Government. Among the agricultural classes the feeling was that the right hon. Gentleman did not pay that deference to them which he paid to other classes. The right hon. Gentleman now proposed to reduce the duty on tea, of which nobody complained. The right hon. Gentleman, in support of his proposal, had been guilty of gross fallacy in his comparison of the relative proportion of taxation on a barrel of beer and on a chest of tea. Before such a comparison could fairly be made the tea must be put into the pot and made an article for consumption; and the same fallacy existed in the comparison which the right hon. Gentleman had drawn between beer and spirits. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman ought to have taken that opportunity to re-adjust the malt tax.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that he had always been opposed to the malt tax, and he thought that if the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk had proposed to the Chancellor to repeal it, and to increase the income tax 2 d.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that the  Achilles,
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is true that the Emperor of Morocco has withdrawn the Firman, delivered last year to Sir Moses Montefiore, promising to the Jews in Morocco the security and protection of regular justice; whether any information has reached the Government of the imprisonment of twelve chiefs of the Jewish community of Tetuan, for the alleged non-payment of a Moorish guard at the gates of the Jewish quarters; and, whether any steps has been taken to ascertain
 1084
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that he, in common with the rest of the House, had felt the influence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer's eloquence, and there was one part of the right hon. Gentleman's masterly statement which gave him more than ordinary pleasure. He was nevertheless somewhat disappointed by his proposition with regard to Fire Insurance, for he had ventured to hope that his views might have taken a wider range, and that his policy would have been to reduce the duty to 1 s. s.
 MR. SURTEES  said, he had heard with considerable regret the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was not his intention to deal with the malt tax in the present Budget. The substance of what the right hon. Gentleman said on the subject was, "How can I, in justice to Scotland and Ireland, remove the malt tax, while I leave the spirit duties un-
 1151 1152
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to ask the President of the Poor Law Board a Question with reference to the conduct of the Parochial Authorities in refusing medical aid to a woman named Mary Green, who died in childbirth. According to the published account of the case, the husband of the woman sent for a doctor named Butler, who had purchased the practice of a former doctor. Mr. Butler came to the house and looked around, but seeing that the people were very poor, and that he was not likely to get his fee, he left the place, recommending the people to send for the parish doctor. The man went to the workhouse at Islington, stated the case, and asked for the assistance of the parochial doctor. ["Order!"] The man was told that medical assistance would not be afforded to the woman unless he produced the marriage certificate. He then secured the services of another medical man, but by the time that the latter had arrived, the child was dead, the woman herself dying shortly afterwards. He wished, therefore, to ask, Whether it is the rule of the Poor Law Board that the medical officer shall not attend poor women under similar circumstances without the production of marriage certificates, and also, if such is the rule, whether Her Majesty's Government will take any steps to have it repealed?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he was puzzled to know why the Chancellor of the Exchequer had introduced into his speech the subjects of the rag duty and the condition of the paper trade, which he stated to be most flourishing. Now it was not more than a month ago, that a deputation of seventy Members of that House and eighty representatives of the paper trade waited on the First Minister to represent the condition in which the trade was, and to ask for a redress of injury—or, in fact, for justice. The truth was that the trade was suffering deeply from the unfortunate blunder made at the time of the negotiation between this country and France which eventuated in the French Treaty. On the occasion of the interview with the First Lord of the Treasury, a proposal was made on behalf of the trade, and if that proposal were adopted it would have the effect of releasing the trade from the consequences of a most deplorable blunder. It would not raise the price of the manufactured article to the consumer, or affect in the slightest degree the newspaper press of the country. On the contrary, he thought he might say that so far from raising the price of paper, it would, without imposing one shilling of taxation, have the effect of lowering the price. The Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that a gentleman who had a large quantity of
 1153 s. s. A laugh.
 MR. MARSH  said, he could not agree in the remarks of the hon. Member for West Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck), for he regarded the reduction of the price of wheat as one of the greatest blessings ever granted to the country. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his most admirable financial statement, had argued that the increase in the imports of the raw material for the manufacture of paper showed that the repeal of the paper duties had acted as a strong stimulus to the manufacture of paper in this country; and then, against this increase in the importation of the raw material, he set an alleged decrease of the English raw material, from the supply of cotton-waste having diminished. But the contrary was the case. The waste of Indian cotton, of which a large quantity had been imported during the last year or so, was 20 per cent greater than that of American cotton, and therefore the decrease of cotton-waste must have been but small, and could not be regarded as counterbalancing the large increase in the importation of the raw material for the manufacture of paper. The right hon. Gentleman's argument with reference to the malt tax was most conclusive and unanswerable; but in one respect he might strengthen it to some extent. The right hon. Gentleman, in estimating the consumption of beer, had excluded women and children from his calculation, but had omitted to exclude the cider drinkers of the country, who might be taken roughly to amount to a million persons. His right hon. Friend
 1138 s. d. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. s. s. 1139
 Mr. BASS  said, he was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not in his place to hear the observations which had just been made in reference to the paper trade. As to the Budget, he (Mr. Bass) thought it would be satisfactory to a large proportion of the people; but, notwithstanding that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had secured the gratitude of all the old women in the country by reducing the tea duty, he must say that he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had not paid any attention to the claims of the malt duty for consideration. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman had fallen into one or two errors upon the subject. He had said that the consumer would not get a farthing a pot reduction in the price of beer, unless the duty was reduced from 2 s. d. s. d.; 1154 s. s. s. 1155
 MR. R. LONG  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken of the expediency of dealing impartially with different kinds of taxation; but the policy of the Government for some time had been to take off Customs duties, leaving the Excise duties in their full oppressiveness. In fact, the fiscal policy of the right hon. Gentleman was to favour the foreign trade at the cost of the home trade. He was in favour of a reduction of the malt tax with the view to its ultimate abolition. A more transparent sophistry it would be difficult to meet with than was embodied in the assertion that the abolition of the malt duty would give a death-blow to indirect taxation. If the duty on malt were abolished to-morrow there was nothing to prevent the right hon. Gentleman from requiring licences to be paid for as well on the consumption as on the sale of beer, both of which would be indirect taxes. Nobody need brew or sell beer unless he liked; but duty levied upon malt was in fact duty levied upon meat. And far from convincing
 1156
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Dodson—There is, Sir, upon the whole, a somewhat remarkable contrast between the opening and the closing incidents of the life of the present Parliament. 1085 1086 1087 1088 1089 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 1096 1097 d. b., s. s. 1098 1099 1100 1101 1102 "To serve as model for the mighty world, And be the fair beginning of a time." 1103 1104 1105 d.; s. d., s., s. d. d. d. d. s. d., d. 1106 s.; d., d. s. paulo majora canamus. 1107 1108 1109 1110 s., 1111 1112 1113 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1114 1115 s. d. s. d.; 1116 1117 1118 soubriquet 1119 s. d.; s. d. s. d.; s. d.; s. d. 1120 s. s. s. d. s. s. d., s. 1120a s. d., s. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. s. d., 1120b 1120c 1120d s. d. d. 1120e d. 1120f 1120g minimum. d., d. 6d. d. d. d., 1120h d. "That, in the opinion of this House it is expedient that the reduction of the Fire Insurance Duty made in the last Session be extended at the earliest opportunity to houses, household goods, and all descriptions of insurable property." 1121 1122 s. d. 1123 1124 s. d. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. 1125 1126 "Circumstant animæ dextrâ lævâ que frequentes." 1127
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then moved that the Chairman report Progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. BARROW  said, he could not share the satisfaction which had been expressed in the hon. Gentleman's proposition; for, although he was desirous to see a reduction of the income tax, he had no desire to be relieved at the expense of those who suffered grievously from the incidence of the malt tax. He protested against the charge, that in asking for a reduction of the malt duty, they were seeking for class legislation. No manufacturer paid duty on the article of his manufacture. The small farmer was very little affected by the income tax, but he was very largely concerned with the malt duty, which was a tax upon an article that he largely consumed; in fact, that tax fell as heavily upon him as the income tax did upon the large proprietor. It was said that if the malt tax was repealed, the landowners would raise their rents by an equal amount, but he had too good an opinion of the landlords to believe that statement. He differed from the remarks which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made respecting the barley averages, and considered that his conclusions were drawn from incorrect premises. It was a fallacy to calculate the price of barley from the average price returned from the markets, for the average price to the grower was much lower than that. He was not asking for class legislation or favouritism, but as the manufacturer did not pay a tax on the articles of his manufacture, the farmer ought not to be taxed for barley, which entered so largely into his consumption for various purposes.
 MR. DU CANE  said, that the hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh), who thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had forgotten the important fact in reference to the malt tax that those who drank cider did not drink beer, appeared himself to have forgotten that those who live in cider counties used to know how to take care of themselves in matters of taxation better than those who grew barley; for when Sir Robert Walpole proposed to levy a cider tax they nearly got up a rebellion. Those who lived in barley-growing counties, however, sought for redress in a quieter manner. He did not wish, on the present occasion, to discuss the details of the Budget; but, as the representative of a barley-growing constituency, he could not help expressing, not his sense of disappointment, for he had never had much hope on the subject, but his sense of the injustice with which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had met the fair and temperate claims of the agricultural interest in respect to a reduction of the malt tax. Several of his friends were sanguine enough to believe that the Chancellor of
 1140 1141 1142 s. s. s. d.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he had listened with interest to the eloquent statement of the right hon. Gentleman, and approved of the main proposals of his financial scheme. He did not think that hon. Members were to blame for bringing under discussion such questions as the insurance duty and the malt tax even before the Budget, as it was their province to suggest to the Government what kind of Budget would be pleasing to their constituents. He had voted against the repeal of the malt tax and for the repeal of the insurance duty, and he was therefore glad to find that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made a concession in respect of the latter duty, but he must not expect too great results from the modification. He had told the right hon. Gentleman last year that he must not expect too great an increase in the insurances on stocks, because manufacturers and merchants like himself had before the reduction always insured, when they were charged 1 s. s. s. d. 1144
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, in order to give this House an opportunity of expressing those feelings which I am sure every Member entertains, and which pervade the whole country, with reference to the assassination of the President of the United States, in the absence of my noble Friend at the head of the Government, I beg to give notice that on Monday next he will move a humble Address to Her Majesty, expressing the feelings of deep sorrow and indignation with which we have heard of the perpetration of that atrocious crime, and our sympathy with the Government and people of the United States, and humbly praying that in any communication which Her Majesty may make to the Government of that country of Her own sentiments she may be graciously pleased at the same time to convey a feeling of condolence on the part of this House.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, there was no objection to the principle of the Bill, though its details would require alteration. He could not, he might add, concur in the opinion that the present police force in Belfast was inefficient, taking its numbers into account. He feared that the saving to the town under the Bill would not be what the right hon. Baronet anticipated, and he doubted the expediency, when the desirability of getting rid of religious distinctions was so generally talked about, of laying down a rigid rule that there must be one Protestant and one Catholic stipendiary magistrate.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to alter the distribution of the Constabulary Force in Ireland, and to make better provision for the Police Force in the borough of Belfast, said, that Belfast was the only borough in Ireland in which there was a special Act regulating the organization of the police force. As far back as the year 1858, the noble Lord opposite (Lord Naas) then Secretary for Ireland, in consequence of riots which occurred in the previous year, brought in a Bill tending very much in the direction of the measure which he was now asking leave to introduce. The riots which occurred at Belfast last year, and which had led to the proposal of this Bill were, as the House well knew, of a most serious character. Not only were 146 persons arrested, but 316 were seriously injured and thirteen were killed; the pecuniary loss occasioned by the stoppage of mills and other causes amounted to £50,000; and in order to put an end to the strife it was necessary during the three worst days, August 15, 16, and 17, to introduce into the town, in addition to the local police, a constabulary force of 978 men, twelve officers and 252 cavalry, fifty-seven officers and 1,045 infantry, and three officers and thirty-six men of the artillery, with two guns. In fact, there was almost a small army quartered in the town. The concurrent testimony of all the witnesses who were examined by
 1169 d. 1170
 MR. HENLEY : I wish that the hon. Member the Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Dodson) had addressed himself to answering the question which was asked by the hon. and learned Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill), which really lies at the root of the matter. The Motion before the House is to re-commit this Bill in order that it shall be referred back to the Referees upon the question of estimates. Now, no one pretends to say that the Report of the Referees holds out the slightest impression that the estimates are sufficient. The language of the Report, equivocal as it may be, is clear upon that point. We come, then, to the question of the Standing Orders, and if this Bill is to go back to the Committee, what course are they to take?—because, as I understand the effect of the Standing Orders, it is not within the scope of the powers of the Committee to go into the question whether the estimates are sufficient. If that is really so, and they cannot go into the question of the sufficiency of the estimates, the whole subject must again come before us for our decision; and we should then have to declare, upon the vague statement of the Referees, whether the estimates are sufficient or not. The Chairman of Ways and Means says very properly that this is a special case; but I doubt whether we should not be laying down a worse precedent by sending this case back to the Committee, who would be unable by the Standing Orders to go into the question whether the estimates are sufficient or not, than by letting the Bill stand over for a year, and affording time for the estimates to be laid before us in a proper form. If the Motion goes to a division, I shall certainly vote against the proposition of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock.
 MR. LIDDBLL  asked the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it be the intention of the Poor Law Board to undertake for the future the appointment of all "Auditors of Accounts" to Poor Law Unions, such appointments having been hitherto supposed to rest in the hands of the Chairmen and Vice Chairmen of the respective Unions?
 MR. HENRY BERKELEY  said, that speaking for the merchants of Bristol he considered these public officers a very hard-worked class. They were ill-paid, yet put in places of great trust, and were often, therefore, placed in circumstances of great temptation. A case had been made out fairly calling for the attention of the Government, and he thought if the Motion
 1210
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he wished to state that he also had been prevented by the forms of the House from presenting that evening a petition from the merchants and traders of Tralee in favour of the Motion.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : If the House will favour me with its attention, I will briefly explain on what grounds I move that the Greenock Railway Bill be re-committed. This case is one of first impression, originating in the new practice under the recent Standing Orders of the House on the subject of Private Bills. It is one of some peculiarity. The House is aware that the new Standing Orders require the Referees on Private Bills to make a Report on certain points. One of these points is the sufficiency of the estimates for the works proposed. The Standing Order says that the Referees shall inquire into the engineering details, the sufficiency of the works for the proposed object, and the sufficiency of the estimates for executing the same. Now, the Referees considered these questions, and made a Report to the House, which, unfortunately, was couched in ambiguous terms, which neither found the estimates sufficient nor insufficient. The Report was in these terms—"The Referees consider that the promoters' estimate is vague and unsatisfactory." The House will observe that the finding was ambiguous, and capable of being regarded by the Committee, as either sufficient or as insufficient. After hearing counsel the Committee—which was presided over by the hon. and learned Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid)—found, in the following terms—
 "That the Report of the Referees on Private Bills has been referred to the Committee, which Report is considered by the Committee as stating the opinion of the Referee that the estimate is not sufficient for the proposed undertaking; and in consequence of said Report the Committee did
 1194
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : I beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What will be the order of business on Monday?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : I have, I confess, been not a little surprised at the Motion which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock. I should certainly not have expected such a Motion to emanate from a Gentleman of so much experience as my right hon. Friend. The right hon. Gentleman says there is great ambiguity in the language used by the Referees. Now, I cannot think so. There appears to me nothing at all ambiguous in the phrase they have employed. The estimate is pronounced by the Referees "vague and unsatisfactory." The Chairman of the Committee, a Gentleman of great experience in such matters, tells us that on the ground of that Report they decided on throwing out the Bill. Are we thus to understand that whenever a Bill has been thrown out because the Referees have reported against it, that the wording of their Report is to be criticized, the merits of the Bill discussed in this House, and Motions made for re-commital? If you agree to such a Motion in this case, where are you to stop? All I can say is, if the terms "vague and unsatisfactory" are not sufficient to indicate that an estimate is insufficient, the terms ought certainly to be applied to the Referees' Report. I think the proposition which has been made by the right hon. Gentleman a most mischievous one, and I shall divide the House against it.
 MR. DUNLOP : I beg to second the Motion made by my right hon. Friend. I sincerely hope that some means will be taken to enable the parties to be heard on the merits of this scheme. I should have thought that when a doubt was felt
 1195
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he had such confidence in the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he would have preferred that this Motion should not have been brought forward; but, it having been brought forward, he felt it due to an excellent class of men to express his concurrence in the statements that had been made of the hardships of their case. This was also the opinion of influential inhabitants at Greenock.
 MR. NEATE : Unless the Referees stated positively that the estimate was insufficient the Committee were bound to go into the consideration of the Bill on its merits. This being the case I think the House ought to re-commit the Bill.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : I will bring it on as early as possible.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that the Poor Law Board could not undertake the future appointment of Auditors, as they had no power to do so, the appointment being vested in the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board of Guardians. The Committee on Poor Relief had, however, recommended that in future the appointment should be vested in the central authority, and it would be for the House of Commons to decide whether that recommendation should be adopted whenever it was submitted to them. The Poor Law Board had no wish that the appointment should be vested in them. The Committee on Poor Relief also expressed a decided opinion that the number of audit districts should be reduced as vacancies occurred, and the vacant districts incorporated with others. The power to do this was already vested in the Poor Law Board under the 7 and 8  Vict.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, I cannot at this moment fix a day when the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman can be discussed. I am extremely anxious there should be no delay, and I hope next week to be able to fix a day.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : The Returns are very comprehensive, and some time must elapse before they can be printed.
 MR. GOSCHEN  appealed to the hon. Member for the King's County whether he did not think that he had got from the Chancellor of the Exchequer all that he wanted. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had promised to look into the complaint, and to remedy any grievances which he might find to exist. It must be remembered that two things were involved—an increase of pay and compensation for loss of promotion. It would be hard if, by the non-success of this Motion as to increase of pay—with regard to which it would probably fail—that the officers of Customs should be deprived of compensation for loss of promotion. The right hon. Gentleman had admitted the grievance, and had promised to consider it. Under those circumstances, it would be the wiser
 1218
 MR. HUNT : Can the right hon. Gentleman state when the Returns moved for by the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) will be on the table?
 MR. LYALL  said, he wished to point out the great inequalities which existed in the remuneration of officers at the outports. At Whitehaven, where everything was getting very dear, the officers received lower remuneration than was granted in an adjoining town. Whether these had arisen from past arrangements or not, they ought not to be allowed to remain. It was impossible for merchants and shipowners who came in contact with these officers not to sympathize with them. If the Government should not listen to their complaints it was the duty of Members to urge attention to them.
 MR. THOMPSON : A question has arrisen whether the estimates are suffi-
 1200
 MR. CLAY : I consider such miscarriages of justice exceedingly likely to arise in the working of new machinery; and the House can well afford not to be too strict
 1199
 MR. CLAY  said, that he had taken great interest in this question, and been in long and frequent communication with the Treasury in regard to it. He should be wanting in his duty if he did not give his testimony to the very minute, careful, and conscientious attention which had been given to the subject by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Secretary of the Treasury. So conscientious had been the inquiry by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that he should advise a man who had a good case to take it to that right hon. Gentleman and if he had a bad one to take it to somebody else. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hennessy) had omitted in his speech to mention a great boon which had been given to this branch of the service—namely, that of throwing open the whole of the Treasury patronage of the higher grades to the Customs themselves. He, however, was free to admit that that boon had not reached the men who were most aggrieved by the amalgamation of 1860—namely, those who had reached, or nearly reached, the top of their classes, who found themselves subject to a new classification, and instead of their reasonable expectation of immediate promotion, found their prospects of it so far removed, as almost to destroy hope of attaining it. The reason of the boon he had mentioned being useless to these men was this—the practice of the Customs was to give promotion either by selection or by competitive examination. Selection practically meant favouritism; and the class of old officers who were most
 1211 1212
 MR. DODSON : I think it would be a very unfortunate custom if it should become the habit of the House lightly to re-commit Bills reported upon adversely by the Referees or rejected by Committees; but, at the same time, the House must be very careful that they do not in some exceptional cases do any act of injustice, which will fall somewhat hardly on the promoters of Private Bills. In this case I have no doubt the Referees reported accurately that the estimates were made out in a vague and unsatisfactory manner; but, at the same time, they certainly do not report that the estimates are insufficient. That Report from the Referees went before the Committee appointed to inquire into the merits of the Bill, and construing it in the strictest manner, the Committee threw out the Bill. We have now heard from my hon. Friend the Member for Ipswich, who was Chairman of the Referees, and who signed the Report on their behalf, that it was not the intention of the Referees to convey to the Committee an opinion that the estimates were insufficient. Under these circumstances, I think the House would do well to allow the Bill to be re-committed. The hon. and learned Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill) asks how the Committee are to deal with the subject of the insufficiency of the estimates after it had already been dealt with by the Referees; and he has called our attention to Standing Order No. 91, arguing from that that the Committee have no further powers to inquire into the matter; but if the learned Member would look at the next Standing Order, No. 92, he would see that any Select Committee to which a Bill is referred, may, subject to the approval of the Chairman of Ways and Means, remit any question arising in this way back again to the Re-
 1202
 MR. DODSON : I think that the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) could scarcely have heard what I said, or he would not have made the observations which he has addressed to the House. All I did was to point out that Standing Order No. 92 gives power to refer back to the Referees any question arising out of their Report upon which the Committee may entertain a doubt.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose for the purpose of moving that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the grievances referred to in the Petition of the Mayor, Merchants, Shipowners, and Commercial Traders of Liverpool with reference to the Out-door Officers of Customs. That petition was presented by his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) on the 20th of March, and it stated that much discontent and dissatisfaction prevailed among those officers, caused by inadequate salaries, a defective system of classification, and a probability almost amounting to certainty that those gentlemen would not be able to obtain that promotion which they reasonably expected when entering the public service. Petitions on the same subject had been presented from the Lord Mayor, Merchants, and Shipowners of London; the Lord Mayor and Merchants of Durham; the Lord Provost and Merchants of Edinburgh and Leith; and the Mayor, Merchants, and Shipowners of Hull. He intended to move, also, that these petitions be referred to the Committee. The complaint of the petitioners was that in the year 1860 the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced certain changes, which had had the effect of increasing the weight of those officers' duties, and of diminishing their chance of promotion without increasing their pay. In his financial statement of the previous evening the right hon. Gentleman told the House that of the surplus of £4,000,000, about £752,000 had arisen from the augmentation of the Customs. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No, the Excise.] The right hon. Gentleman was reported to have said the Customs. The change which had taken place had caused great discontent and dissatisfaction amongst 3,000
 1206 "From the experience of the past year we feel compelled to speak even more strongly than we did in our last Report in support of every measure calculated to alleviate the severity of a blow hitherto unparalleled in the history of this, or, we believe, of any other public department." "That the amalgamation changed all that was favourable in this state of things, by fixing the maximum at £65 and 1 s. s. d. 1207 s. s. s., s., employés 1208
 MR. ROEBUCK : I think what has just been stated by the hon. Member is hardly sufficient to induce the House to reject the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. E. P. Bouverie). The Referees state that the practice of the House had been such that when they came to consider it they thought it unsatisfactory, and
 1197
 MR. DILLWYN : Sir, I find the Motion stands as an Order of the Day on Tuesday, and several other important Motions will come on before it. I cannot, therefore, expect to get on that day sufficient time for the discussion of a question of such importance. I therefore intend to propose the adjournment of the Order on Tuesday to some day when we can have sufficient time for its discussion. I hope to induce the Government to assist mo.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Swansea, Whether he proposes to proceed with the adjourned Debate on the Church Establishment (Ireland), which now stands as an Order of the Day for Tuesday next?
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he had been prevented from presenting a petition from Liverpool in favour of the Motion. He should deeply regret if Her Majesty's Government should resist the appointment of this Committee. He would not say that these officers were either underpaid or overpaid, but it was well known that there was a feeling of dissatisfaction among them, and if the appointment of this Committee would remove that feeling Her Majesty's Government would do well to appoint it. He regretted that his hon. Friend had not extended his Motion, because it was not in the out-door department alone in which dissatisfaction existed, but also to a great extent in the indoor department, and if a Committee were appointed to inquire into the one class, that inquiry should be followed by another into the other class.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would not, at any rate, be the fault of his hon. Friend who had just sat down and the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) if the House were not enabled to understand the real nature and effect of the Motion before them. In the case of public officers who were enabled to allege that in their reasonable expectations, grounded upon the rules of public service existing when they entered that service, they had been disappointed through the Acts of the Government there was, he admitted, a grievance, and it was a matter in which it was the duty of the Government to render an account of their proceedings to the House, and it would be perfectly within the rules of prudence to risk an inquiry by a Committee. That was a view of the question comparatively narrow, and it was upon this view that his hon. Friend, judging by his arguments, was about to support the Motion. On this part of the question he should say a word by-and-by. The Motion before the House was of importance, not because the representatives of several of the ports of the country had risen in their places to speak in favour of it, touching as it did directly and indirectly the especial interests of their constituencies, adverse to that of the coun-
 1213 1214 1215 1216 1217
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : First will come the Address which it is proposed to move in reference to the assassination of President Lincoln. After that I propose to proceed with the
 1205
 MR. W. EWART : The hon. Member who has last spoken seems to imply that the Referees have pronounced a decided
 1201
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, To name the day on which he will proceed with the Union Chargeability Bill; and whether he will bring it on as the first Order of the Day, so as to allow a full discussion on the effect it will have in the manufacturing districts?
 MR. FERRAND : Will the right hon. Gentleman state that he will bring it on as the first Order of the Day?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the operation of the augmented Spirit Duties in Ireland. He had said he had been a great admirer of the financial abilities of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would gladly assent to the appointment of this Committee, as it would enable him to give his reasons for pursuing an exactly contrary financial policy in Ireland to that which he had pursued in England. The whole merit of his policy in England had been to diminish and repeal every duty which in any way restricted the consumption of the people, which restrained production, or diminished employment. In Ireland he had adopted an exactly contrary policy. He had augmented a tax which had had the effect of restricting the consumption and enjoyment of the people, and thrown many people out of employment. Ample evidence to that effect had been elicited before the Committee on Irish Taxation. One witness stated that the consumption of spirits had declined from 8,000,000 gallons in 1852 to 5,000,000 gallons in 1862; another, that the number of distillers had declined from  75 1219
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  seconded the Motion. He said that many of his constituents were interested in this question. After the statement made last night, it would be but fair that the Government should take the subject into their favourable consideration. He did not mean to say that it was a right principle that salaries should fluctuate with the prosperity or adversity of the country, but after a series of years of prosperity such as they had heard of last night they ought not to allow the contrast between the flourishing state of
 1209
 MR. BAINES  said, he had a petition intrusted to him, which he had been unable to present from merchants connected with the inland bonding port of Leeds, confirming the statements made in the petition referred to by the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) and praying for inquiry into the salaries and for more liberal treatment of these officers. The petition stated most distinctly that their salaries were not adequate to the decent and comfortable maintenance of themselves and families; indeed, they were so small as to present grievous temptations to departure from honesty in the discharge of their duties. He supported the Motion.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID : Having been Chairman of the Committee to which this Bill was referred, I wish to state, in very few words, what was the view we took of the Report of the Referees, and why I think, as the matter stood, we were perfectly right. I shall then, with the permission of the House, state what course I think ought now to be taken with regard to the Motion of my right hon. Friend, The question of the sufficiency or insufficiency of the estimates was referred to the Referees. It is admitted that if the estimates were found to be insufficient, the Committee ought not to proceed with the Bill. Well, the Report finds that the estimate is "vague and unsatisfactory." The first remark I make upon these terms is this—it cannot possibly be maintained that they are equivalent to saying that the estimate is sufficient. But we are told that the subsequent part of the Report makes it appear, nevertheless, that that was intended. So far as I understand the subsequent part of the Report, it has a contrary bearing. It is well known that in all works of this description unexpected expenses occur, and in order to the suffi-
 1198
 MR. ADAIR : As I was one of the Referees who signed the Report, I will take the liberty of briefly explaining to the House the circumstances adverted to by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. E. P. Bouverie). A practice has crept in among engineers of drawing up their estimates in a very loose, vague, and unsatisfactory manner; and since the establishment of the Court of Referees, it has been determined by us that we will have these estimates more clearly set out. When we came to examine the estimates, we heard a great deal of conflicting evidence on the subject, we were not satisfied that as much care—though as much as the previous practice of Parliament had required—had been exercised on this occasion, as we should in future insist upon; and, therefore, with that view, I and my Colleagues thought it necessary to introduce in the Report the words that the estimates were "vague and unsatisfactory." We should perhaps have said that the principle on which the estimates were framed was "vague and unsatisfactory," or some words to that effect. We were satisfied that though we should not have been justified in declaring that the estimates were "insufficient" for the works contemplated, yet the principle on which they were framed was "vague and unsatisfactory." We also thought it our duty to draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that in an estimate of £350,000, on the promoters' own showing there was only left a margin of £5,000. It was under these circumstances that we made the Report containing the expressions which have been read. We were satisfied that the estimate was sufficient, though the principles on which it had been framed were so "vague and unsatisfactory;" and we hoped this would be received as an intimation that greater accuracy ought to be shown, and would in future be required by the Referees.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON : I consider this question entirely a matter of procedure. The promoters of a Bill are virtually on the defensive as regards the sufficiency of the estimate, unless a Bill is opposed on the ground of the insufficiency of the estimates. The opposition to this Bill proceeds only from a rival company; all the landowners on the line are in its favour, and the important town of Greenock, where it originates, also strongly support it. I think the House will not be inclined to draw the rule with extraordinary strictness for the sake of defeating such a Bill. The hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Adair) has stated that he did not think the Referees would have been justified in absolutely certifying the sufficiency of the estimates; but neither did they endorse the opinion of the opponents of the Bill by declaring them to be insufficient. I shall support the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. CAVE  said, that he had a petition from Shoreham, which he had been unable to present, in which it was stated that it was impossible merchants and traders could feel entire confidence that such responsible duties could be honestly discharged while great temptations were placed in the way of officers who were most inadequately remunerated for their services. They all knew that in other countries the dishonesty of Government  employés
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE : I
 1196
 MR. BOVILL : I think it is desirable to know how matters stand in reference to the Standing Orders of the House, especially as a very serious question is raised by the Motion of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock. The duty of inquiring into the sufficiency of the estimates in connection with works proposed to be undertaken by the promoters of a Private Bill is a duty thrown by this House upon the official Referees. I take it, that when the Referees have given their decision, no further reference is to be taken by the Committee to disprove the facts which have been reported by the Referees. The meaning of this is, that after the official Referees have inquired into the sufficiency or insufficiency of the estimates, the question of the sufficiency of the estimates is not to be inquired into by the Committee to whom the Bill is referred. If, therefore, the House decides now upon referring the Bill back again to the same Select Committee by whom it has already been considered, the Committee will assuredly feel themselves bound to abide by the Standing Orders which have already regulated their proceedings, and they will at once say that they have no power whatever to enter into the question of the sufficiency of the estimates. The result will be that there will still be no Report as to the sufficiency of the estimates in regard to the works proposed to be undertaken. As I the case stands at present, the estimates have been declared "vague and unsatisfactory," and if the question is referred back again to the same Committee, I do not sec what different result can be arrived at.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES : I hope the House will take care what it does on this subject. The Court of Referees when first established was not received well by the public, but since it has been in action it has gradually won their favour. If, however, a stone is to be thrown by this House at their decisions, what is to become of the public out of doors? As I understand, by the rules of the House the Referees are required to take into their consideration the question of the sufficiency or insufficiency of the estimates. It is true in this case that they have not reported that the estimates are insufficient, hut they have used a term quite equal to it; and in that case, I think, after the explanation that has been given, that the Committee to whom the question was referred has acted most consistently and properly. I must express a hope, that this being a new Court, we should not now, by an adverse decision, with regard to the judgment of the Referees, call into question a Court which we ourselves have created, and which I believe is gradually obtaining the confidence of the House and the public.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, as some modifications have been made in this Bill, perhaps it will be as well that I should describe how it stands at present. The starting point, I think, in any discussion of this character, must be the Act of 1844, previous to which we were in a chaos of unsound principles and dangerous practice. That Act, however, laid down a complete system for the regulation of the issue of paper money. The principles on which it proceeded were four—first, that the paper money of the country should proceed from one single source; secondly, that the issue of that paper money is the prerogative of the Crown, consequently, that the profit attaching to it should form a legitimate portion of the public revenue. In the third place, that it is the duty of the State to see that the paper money was so secured to the noteholder that it might be accepted in the manner in which paper money is intended to circulate without doubt or question, and with perfect security against loss on the part of those who might so accept it. The fourth condition of the issue of paper money is that which is most clearly expressed in the Act itself—that an absolute and rigid limit should be placed upon the issue of that paper money except so far as it is adequately secured by being represented by a corresponding amount of bullion. Of these four objects the last is absolutely and finally secured by the Act of 1844. The object of this measure is distinct. We desire to place Parliament, so far as the issue from a single source is concerned, in such a position that it will be able, after the expiration of a moderate time, to deal with these questions freely and without
 1248 s. 1249 1250 1251 1252
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when this subject was first brought under the notice of the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it appeared to him that some further information from the right hon. Gentleman was desirable, and he put a notice on the paper with the object of eliciting that information. He had listened attentively to the right hon. Gentleman on the present occasion; but he could not say that he was satisfied with the explanation which he had given the House with reference to the Bill, or to the Act of 1844 which was at the root of the matter. If the right hon. Gentleman's explanation of that Act were strictly accurate there might be sufficient apology for this Bill; but if the explanation were incomplete a great deal of the foundation of this measure must fall to the ground. Previously to the Act of 1844 private bankers possessed the right of issuing their own notes without limit, except in that part of the kingdom purposely reserved to the Bank of England, The Parliament of that day, not wishing to deprive them suddenly of a right which had grown up during a long course of years, entered into a contract with them by which they were to enjoy their monopoly for a further period of twelve years, on the distinct understanding that such extension was to be regarded as an ample compensation for the rights of which they were then to be deprived. This contract was the whole scope and object of the Act of 1844, so far as he understood it. The provision in that Act declaring that all compensations by the Bank of England to private bankers should terminate at the expiration of the twelve years clearly showed that the extension of the private
 1253 1254 1255 s. s.
 MR. AIDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that he objected to the mode adopted of selling at that time of day privileges to any class of persons whatsoever. He believed that every one admitted that the Act of 1844 was a vrey wise measure, but they still might question some of the reasons on which that measure was supported. The Bill before them had two objects in view.
 1256 s.
 MR. CAVE  said, he would not oppose the Bill at this stage, but he should like to say a few words, because, in fact, the principle of the Bill had never been discussed. On the second reading the House immediately rushed into a debate on the Act of 1844, from which, when once begun, it was always hopeless to recall it. Now, he thought this Bill required grave consideration, and that a more ample discussion of its provisions was necessary than was possible after going into Committee, fie did not object to banks of issue having offices in London; that was a question between themselves and their agents, and not one of public policy, lie was glad the Chancellor of the Exchequer had determined at length to maintain the sixty-five mile limit with regard to issues. His first proposal would have given these banks an unfair advantage over those which had not the same privilege, and, independently of profit, would have enabled them to advertise themselves, as it were, by means of their issues. If, according to Sir Robert Peel's statement, the withdrawal of private circulation within that limit would not have been felt in 1844 in consequence of the general use of Bank of England notes, still less would it be felt now, and surely we should legislate according to the requirements of
 1257 privilegium 1258 quasi
 MR. NEATE  said, on reference to the Act of 1844, he could not find any authority to support what had been stated by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), that the private banks had a right to continue their issues under that Act. The object of the Act was to extinguish altogether the circulation of the
 1259
 MR. BLACK  said, this was so vital a question to the interests of this country that the House would not be doing justice to it by dealing with it in any partial or special way. There were a great many different opinions upon the system proposed by the Bill. All such matters ought to be submitted to the consideration of a body composed of the most experienced merchants and of those best acquainted with political economy and who understood most thoroughly the system of banking. Before any plan was adopted the Bill should be remitted to a Committee to consider what ought to be done. The main object of the Bill was very proper. It was intended, as he understood, to give facilities to those who dealt in money, and to merchants who were bankers, and who were at present restricted from having places of business in London. He could not see why bankers in the country should be prevented from having places of business in London, or what objection could be urged against adding to the number of partners those who were, perhaps, better qualified to manage the business than others, and thereby give greater security to the public. The object of the Bill, therefore, was good so far as it went in this respect, and ought to be supported by the House. There was another object of the Bill, that the whole of the paper issues should be confined to the Bank of England, or to some national bank. That was ob-
 1260
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he was of opinion that, while this measure had conciliated a few, it had excited opposition in many different quarters for many different reasons. The settlement which had already been come to by the House of Commons, by the Act of 1844, ought not to have been departed from unless that departure were called for by strong reasons of public necessity, and he would submit that in the present case the reasons adduced in support of a change were not sufficiently strong. A few applications from banks complaining of the restrictions under which they laboured might possibly have been made to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but one or two applications were not sufficient to warrant their dealing with a subject so large and comprehensive in its character. In his own locality he might venture to say that the present measure had been received by all the country bankers with whom he had communicated with the most unmitigated feeling of distrust and dislike. They were perfectly satisfied with the Act of 1844.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he could not see that the Act of 1844 was carried out or furthered in any way by the present measure. It would, on the contrary, rather retard the object which the Act sought to accomplish. There could be no doubt that by the spirit of that Act, Parliament was considered at liberty to deal with the question in 1855. A Bill was then introduced to render that Act permanent, subject only to a notice for its discontinuance. As the Chancellor of the Exchequer had explained, the intention of Sir Robert Peel and of the Act of 1844 was that there should be one issue within a limited time. He contemplated the final extinction of country issues, and that there should be one issue, but whether of a national bank or of other banks in England
 1261
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, that country bankers looked upon this measure as an act of confiscation—as much an act of confiscation as it would be to take a man's rents from him. They generally disapproved of it, regarding it as uncalled for as a piece of legislation that would unnecessarily disturb the existing order of things, and do more harm than good. If the hon. Member (Mr. Ayrton) persisted in his Amendment he would go into the lobby with him. He protested against this sort of Government interference when it was not required. Until he came into the House that night he never heard that the country bankers generally assented to this Bill. He did not believe that they did assent to it. This he knew, that the principal bankers in his constituency—many of them—declared that they did not approve of the Bill, and wished him to give it all the opposition in his power. The bankers of Hull and York, from whom he had had many communications on the subject, also disapproved of the measure.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was sure the hon. Member for Peterborough would acquit him of any unfriendly feeling towards the Act of 1844. He fully admitted all the advantages which that Act had conferred upon the country, and if he thought the Bill proposed by his right hon. Friend would in any way tend to impair the usefulness of the Act of 1844 he would be the last to support it. It was true that Sir Robert Peel in 1844 did contemplate the extinguishment of the country issues, but at that time it was more easy to propose than to carry out such a plan, and he was therefore compelled to proceed more guardedly by gradually undermining rather than by putting a sudden end to them. The Act of 1844 attained a great good, but not the whole of the good contemplated by Sir Robert Peel. The measure which Sir Robert Peel then passed was intended to encourage country banks to enter into compositions with the Bank of England, whereby the notes of the latter establishment should be substituted for their own issues, his object being undoubtedly to have but one national issue. What he did was to prevent the great mischief that might arise from the country banks improperly increasing their issues. There was no doubt that Sir Robert Peel contemplated a revision of the Bank charter at the end of ten years. The state of affairs which was brought about by the Act of 1844 was an unlimited continuance of the country | issues to the amount then in circulation until Parliament came down with a new Act. This step had not yet been taken. Now, the question arose upon application being made to his right hon. Friend for some facilities to bankers beyond the sixty-five miles circuit. His right hon. Friend proposed to give these banking facilities, but also proposed that, in consideration of these banking facilities being given, the right to issue notes should absolutely cease at a given time. At present the country banks had an unlimited lease of issuing notes, unless Parliament should interfere, but under this Bill they would only have a limited lease, and the right of issue would absolutely cease unless Parliament should interpose to prevent the termination of the lease at the expiration of a period of fifteen years. He thought that in this respect the Bill would be a great step towards carrying out the principles of the Act of 1844, and therefore he could not hesitate to give it his utmost support.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he desired to make an observation with regard, not to the principle of the measure, but as to the position in which they stood in reference to it. The question was not as to the course they should take with respect to the provision of the Bill which gave the lease, but whether they should go into Committee on it at all. He put it to the hon. Member for Peterborough—admitting for the sake of argument all that he had stated—whether it was desirable to allow matters to go on exactly in their present condition by refusing to go into Committee. The whole argument against proceeding with the Bill resolved itself into this, that country bankers were bankers of issue, and should continue to hold that position; but as they were bankers of issue he contended that it was important on behalf of the public to obtain all possible security for the validity of their issues. Was it not desirable, seeing that there was no immediate prospect of dealing with these banks this or next year, to put them on the best and most secure footing possible, instead of allowing them to die out to the mischief of the public? By going into Committee, an opportunity would be afforded of discussing the provision, of which notice had been given by the hon. Member for Greenwich (Mr. Alderman Salomons). A provision ought to be introduced, obliging these banks of issue to give security for a whole or a part of their authorized issue, and if this were done, a great step in advance would be gained in securing the validity of the country issue. He hoped the House would go into Committee upon the Bill.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that the security of the public in the limitation of a paper issue, and in the application of the profits which might accrue, were conditions which could not be too largely insisted on. He agreed with his right hon. Friend who introduced the Bill as to the House being perfectly free to deal with that subject. But, that being so, where was the necessity of entering now into a sort of compromise which tied up the hands of the House for fifteen years to come? This was not a general measure affecting the issues of all banks, but was a mere Permissive Bill to meet the convenience of one particular bank; but his right hon. Friend offered the same convenience to other banks which might follow in its train. In his own opinion, very few banks
 1264
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the country bankers had opposed that measure very strongly, because they saw in it the thin end of the wedge; but he supported it himself because he admitted that it was the thin end of the wedge. It was desirable gradually to get rid of the private issues; and as a friend of the Act of 1844 he supported the Bill, because the result would be that it would put an end to private issues altogether. When the period of twenty-five years appeared in the Bill, he felt a strong objection to it, and he had put an Amendment on the paper for substituting ten years. He now supported the measure because it placed a limit—although, he was sorry to say, rather a distant one—to private issues. The most valuable parts of the measure were the provision fixing a term when the country issues should cease, and the tax of £1, which involved an important principle, as showing that the State claimed the right to deal with the currency.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would withdraw his Amendment, and leave the House, if it chose, to divide on the main Question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the proposal of the Government was to remove certain banking disabilities on condition of the issuers placing themselves in a position more conformable to the Act of 1844. The proposal of the hon. Member would tend to remove this hold upon the banks.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he agreed with the clause as first proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but altogether disagreed with the Amendment. He had intended to move in the Committee that a term of ten years should be substituted for the term of fifteen, as proposed in the clause as it now stood; but, as it appeared to him, the whole principle advocated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was given up by the Amendment. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said that he meant that the bank issues should cease at a certain time by Act of Parliament; but, by the wording of this clause, it was merely that the country banks should not issue after that time without further notice—so that any Chancellor of the Exchequer who might take another view of the matter might, if he liked, postpone altogether the issue of the notice. He (Mr. Hankey) wanted the Act passed in such a form as to make the country issues class entirely independent of the will of any future Minister.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he understood that the opposition of the country bankers had been withdrawn on this condition.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that after all, the Act would only operate in the case of those banks which voluntarily adopted it, and who might or not be called upon by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in fifteen years' time, to execute the bond they now undertook. He contended that, so far from being a great commercial measure, it would be found that, from its optional character, they had after all their labour done nothing at all. He believed it would only be accepted by one or two banks, and considered the Bill one very unworthy of the present Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that he should support the Bill as it had been modified by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; had it remained in its original shape he should have opposed it.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, one great argument for the Bill as it originally stood was, that private issues would terminate at a given date; but as the clause was now proposed to be amended it would only
 1267
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he thought that the first offer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was the best for the public, because it was some satisfaction to see that in 1875 those banks which came under the Bill would cease to have any rights at all. The substitute was that in 1880, instead of being extinguished, they were to receive a notice from the Treasury to that effect. The result would be that if a strong Government, which could carry everything, happened to he in office, and an enterprizing Chancellor of the Exchequer who held sound opinions upon this question, this notice would probably be given; but not otherwise.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that there was a great deal of difference between issuing a notice from Downing Street and bringing a proposition before the House and having to contend with a variety of suggestions and Amendments. It was not intended to refer the policy of this Bill for re-consideration by any future Chancellor of the Exchequer. The one great object of the Bill, for which many sacrifices were made, was that as to those issues which came within the scope of the Act Parliament should at a certain period have absolute power, and there was no way of giving to Parliament this absolute power except by providing for an absolute determination of the right of issue. He undertook nothing with regard to the view which Parliament might take at the period indicated. The question upon what principles the policy of issue should thereafter be conducted would depend upon the judgment of the Parliament of the day, who would no doubt pay greater attention to the great and wise Act of 1844 than to any words of his, and would avail themselves of all the experience which would by that time have accumulated. As to the notice from the Executive, this would be a purely Ministerial act, and one which, whether the Government of the day were strong or weak, they need not hesitate to perform. Upon this question he had found it impossible to bring in a large and comprehensive measure. He had framed one satisfactory to himself, but in the face of the opposition by which it was sure to be met it was hopeless to propose such a measure, and so when he found he could not do all he wanted he tried to do part. He
 1268
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that the optional power could be done away with by leaving the word "if" out at the commencement of the words proposed to be added.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, it would be better still to leave out the words "if, on arid after," and then the sentence would begin by definitely stating that the notice should be given by the Lords of the Treasury.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it would be an improvement to leave out the four words, "if, on and after," as suggested.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  proposed that the Amendment which he had moved to the clause should read thus—
 "On or before the 1st day of January, 1879, notice shall be given by the Commissioners of the Treasury, by publication in the  London Gazette,
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  withdrew his Amendment.
 MR. SALT  said, that if, under this Bill *
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished to ask what was to be the position of the banks which did not comply with the provisions of the Bill?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was rather surprised at this question. Before the House went into Committee, with all the variations of language which the powers at his command enabled him to employ, he had gone into this same question, and had at length checked himself from the fear that the House would experience a species of nausea in being obliged to listen to so much on the subject. The banks referred to by his hon. Friend would incur no loss and obtain no benefit under the Bill. Under the Act of 1844 they occupied a certain position, and in that position they would remain.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the Bill would not leave those banks precisely as they now stood. The banks would be divided into two classes—namely, conforming and nonconforming banks; and the question was what effect would this clause have upon the nonconforming banks? If the measure was a good and a proper one, it would, of course, be desirable, in the interests of the public that as many banks as possible should accept its terms. But the managers of provincial banks would naturally argue that it would be better to forego the advantages offered rather than absolutely to resign their right of issue at the expiration of the fifteen years' term fixed by the Act. He thought that, under the circumstances, it would be better to place both classes of banks on the same footing at the expiration of the term.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, to adopt such a suggestion would be to throw away the principal object of the Act, which was to advance another step in the direction taken by the Act of 1844.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that he wished to draw attention to the fact that of late one large bank had been compelled to close its doors, and that the public had been glad to accept 10 s. s. (Deposit of Government Securities by Banks of Issue.) "Provided always that, previous to any Bank of Issue having a house of business or establishment as bankers in London, or at any place not exceeding sixty-five miles from London, such Bank shall deposit with the Commissioners of the
 1270
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the argument of his hon. Friend might have been understood to apply to a different clause from that which he had moved. His hon. Friend said, there was a great amount of unsecured issues of bank notes, and it might be supposed that he was going to move a clause to put an end to that state of things, and to require all private and joint-stock banks of issue to give security for their notes. The House had passed a clause through Committee by which certain of the banks of issue would place themselves in a position much more favourable to the public than banks of issue in general, and his hon. Friend wanted to draw a fundamental distinction between these banks to the disadvantage of the conforming, and the advantage of the non-conforming, banks. He would rather say, on the other hand, that it was the notes of the non-conforming banks that ought to give security, and not the others. The hon. Member was free to hold that at any moment Parliament would be justified in imposing the duty of giving security upon all private issuers whatever. But he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) protested against imposing the duty exclusively on the conforming banks. If there were any necessity for giving security for notes, that necessity was strong or weak, as the banks were weak or strong. Where the bank was weak there was the more need of security; where it was strong there was the less need of security. Did his hon. Friend think that the weak bank, to which reference had been made, would have been a conforming bank? If there were any banks now in existence with a rotten circulation, they would remain untouched by the clause, but if there were banks strong, flourishing, extending their business, having the confidence of the public, solid and solvent, these banks would conform to the Bill and become banks of issue. He protested against drawing the distinction proposed by the clause. It was both unfair and inconvenient. His strong objection, however, to the clause was that this question of security was essentially one which, if it were dealt with at all, ought to be dealt with by direct legislation. The right of Parliament to require banks of
 1271
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he thought the distinction drawn by the right hon. Gen-
 1272
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, what he intended to convey was that the banks, generally speaking, were strong; but in the case of issuers they could never be certain that there might not be one or two weak ones. And these would possibly be found among the non-conforming ones.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he understood this contract with the banks to refer altogether to matters apart from the security for issues. It appeared to him that the obligation of the note issuer to give an adequate security for issue was of a general nature, and could not be possibly affected by a Bill of this kind unless specifically expressed. The liberty of Parliament to deal with the security of issue would remain totally unimpaired.
 MR. HUSBARD  said, he believed that the measure would never come into operation save with regard to two or three banks, and wished it had never been brought forward.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he thought there could be no impropriety in dealing with the issuing banks, to whom under the terms of the Bill a privilege for fifteen years was given.
 MR. NEATE  said, he should require legal authority higher than that of the right hon. Gentleman for the assertion that rights of issue already enjoyed by banks under Parliamentary authority could be affected or withdrawn without compensation being given for the loss ensuing from the alteration.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that seeing how well Gentlemen with Univerversity educations had argued against his proposal, he felt more sensible than ever of the great disadvantage which he suffer-
 1273
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was a limited portion of the country banks who were in the habit, not of compounding for their issues, but of paying stamp duties on their notes. Those persons would be under a certain disadvantage if at any time they should wish to compound for the rest of their notes. He bad, therefore, prepared a clause which gave power to the Treasury to make those banks such compensation as might be fair on their stamped notes yet in circulation.
 MR. THOMAS BARING,  in reply, said, his hon. Friend had no doubt seen in The Times newspaper an explanation of this matter by Mr. Gambart. With regard to the Trustees of the National Gallery the simple fact was, Mr. Jacob Bell, who died in 1859, very generously bequeathed certain pictures to the nation, and among them was the "Derby Day" painted by the celebrated artist, Mr. Frith. Before his death, Mr. Bell made an arrangement with Mr. Gambart by which this picture should remain in his possession for a certain term of years for the purpose of exhibition and engraving. At the end of that term in June, 1864, the Trustees of the National Gallery wrote to the executors of the late Mr. Bell, asking them why the picture was not delivered, and the reply was, that Mr. Gambart had said that he had a right to the picture for another year for exhibition, and he had sent it to Australia, but had promised it should return in August. It was very clear that the Trustees of the National Gallery could have no control over the picture until it was delivered to them by the executors, who were the only people with whom the Trustees could communicate. About six weeks ago the whole circumstances of the case were sent to the Treasury and sub-
 1239
 MR. THOMAS BARING,  in reply, said, it was quite true representations had been made as to the state of this road, and the dangers arising to the public from its bad state of repair, and the police had as far as possible diverted the traffic by another way in order to prevent accidents. The repair of the road was a very small matter, costing about £40 per annum, and it was to be hoped that the two parishes concerned would come to some arrangement between themselves to repair the road, and thereby remedy the inconvenience to the public, without the necessity of resorting to legal proceedings.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, in reference to the reduction of the Duty on Tea, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will allow a drawback; and whether, if not, he will extend the time when the reduction will come into operation?
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he wished to know, whether, on a previous occasion, when the duty on tea was reduced, the time had not been extended until July?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was always glad to receive instruction from Gentlemen conversant with the practical operation of the law of partnership; but perhaps those hon. Members did not speak with equal authority when they referred to the principles of the law. The effect of the Bill as regarded the law of principal and agent was quite the reverse of that described by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. It would repeal an arbitrary law, established by judicial authority alone, which did interfere with the law of principal and agent. The law of principal and agent was that a man should be held responsible for contracts which he authorized another to make on his behalf, but not otherwise. Then, putting aside the arbitrary decision in the case of "Waugh  v. 1291
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that the object of the Bill might be very briefly stated. It was to distinguish between lenders to a firm and members of a firm. To a certain extent the law distinguished between them now. If a man lent money and received for it a fixed rate of interest, he was not liable for the debts of the borrowers; but if, instead of a fixed interest, he received a share of profits, then he was liable, although he never was, and never intended to be, a partner in the concern. As the law at present stood, it made some lenders partners in spite of themselves, and in spite of the truth of the transaction. That was a defect which the present Bill was intended to remedy. It separated the lender and his liabilities from the partner and his liabilities. If, as his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Bovill) had urged, in illustration of his objections to the operation of the Bill, a man should advance a sum of £10,000 for the purposes of trade, and should pay a man £500 a year to carry on that trade, he was in reality the trader, and would therefore be responsible as such. The case adduced by his hon. and learned Friend had, therefore, nothing to do with the present question. Assuming that a man who advanced £10,000 was a real lender, where was the distinction between
 1294
 MR. THOMAS BARING  said, he agreed with the Solicitor General that the question lay in a nutshell, and the nutshell was this—should a system of trade be established in this country, under which a man should be enabled to get any amount of credit he chose, to trade to any extent, and when a time of misfortune came, should be able to withdraw his capital and leave the public to bear the loss, by turning round and saying "I am not a partner but a lender." The system of trade hitherto had been to inculcate on our traders that everything depended on their integrity and prudence. A man in trade hesitated now before he rushed into speculation, because he knew that he would risk the whole of his capital and his future prospects, and it was this knowledge that had made the British merchant prudent and calculating. It was true that you could not even under a system of unlimited liability get rid of all frauds, but this was no argument against the adoption of every necessary precaution. Two-thirds of the trade of the country were carried on upon credit, and this rendered necessary all the safeguards which could be provided against plans to deceive the creditor. The commercial system of this country drew a distinction between limited liability in individual private partnerships, and from the same principle in great concerns which could not be carried on by individuals. The latter had always been sanctioned in one shape or other by Act of Parliament, Royal Charter, or, lately, by the system of limited liability; but hitherto this House had always rejected proposals for applying the same system to individual partnerships. This measure was without any of the safeguards contained in former measures which had been proposed. It was, therefore, necessarily
 1295
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he differed from the Gentlemen who sat near him, because he did not believe that this Bill would either make dormant partners or sleeping partners. On the contrary, it expressly declared that lending money in a particular manner should not in itself create a partnership. Had the Bill proposed to create a new form of partnership, he would not vote in support of it as he intended doing. Whether the Attorney General was right in saying that the present state of the law was unreasonable to everybody but lawyers, he did not know, and time only could show whether the new state of things proposed would make it better or worse for them. The hon. and learned Member had stated truly that a great portion of the trade of this country was carried on upon credit, and year after year they passed laws to facilitate its operation. The best maxim for the present day was  caveat emptor
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  seconded the Amendment, as he could not consent that public money should be taken for such a purpose.
 MR. COWPER  said, the chief fault he found with the Bill was that it was too short. It consisted simply of one clause of only two lines, providing that, after a certain time, the foot toll should cease. It ought, he thought, to have an addition made to it, providing that the money which would be lost by the proposed abolition of tolls should be made good out of a local rate or some other local fund. It was quite clear that the Government could not support, as it stood, a measure which would entail a sacrifice of £96,000 to the public revenue, but if the hon. Baronet would consent to refer the Bill to a Select Committee—as a somewhat similar Bill
 1303
 GENERAL BUCKLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Why the detachment of the 64th Foot, consisting of five or six officers and 200 men (who, being part of the Lucknow Garrison, were shut up in the Alum Baugh from October to November, 1857, when they were relieved by Sir Colin Campbell), have been deprived of the second donation batta, which has been received by the rest of the regiment who were in Lucknow? This detachment has received the year's pay, and the second donation batta was first allowed, but has since been refused.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that there were no papers of sufficient importance to lay on the table. They were aware of the intention of the Consul at Amoy to visit the Taeping Chief, but his Report on the subject had not yet been received. No information had reached the Foreign Office respecting the reported revolt of the Imperial Troops in the cities referred to by the hon. and gallant Member.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, there are rare instances when the sympathy of a nation approaches those tenderer feelings that, generally speaking, are supposed to be peculiar to the individual, and to form the happy privilege of private life; and this is one. 1246
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that allusion had been made to the failure of an eminent banking firm in the midland counties. Nobody regretted that failure and its consequences more than he did, but by what was it occasioned?—the withdrawal of capital unknown to the great body of creditors. This Bill would enable a sleeping partner to share the profits of a limited liability company without appearing before the public in the sense of liability for the engagements of the firm. It appeared to be totally over-
 1298
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that the service performed by the different portions of the regiment were of a totally different character. One part was shut up in the garrison of Lucknow, and exposed to all the hardships, risks, and dangers which were well known by all, whereas the other detachment to which his hon. and gallant Friend referred was never in Lucknow at all, but in the Alum Baugh, some distance off, and was not exposed to the same hardships. The second donation batta was first allowed under a misapprehension, believing that the detachment had been in the garrison of Lucknow, whereas they had no communication with it, except by spies and deserters, and they were not cut off from communication with the rest of the army, their rear being-open to Cawnpore. They were never exposed to serious hardships or privations. The Government of India had expressed a strong opinion upon the subject, and they were not only the judges on the spot of the services rendered, but also the parties by whom the allowance was given.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, if that were the ease the toll would at once cease. He desired to promote the interests of the working classes, but there might be another motive for the proposed change, and that was the increased value that would be given to the property on the other side of the bridge. He concluded by moving that the Bill be read that day six months.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, it often happened that when those distinguished Gentlemen, the metropolitan representatives, came forward with financial proposals they were looked upon with some suspicion, because suggestions were made that might be beneficial to their constituents and injurious to the public purse; and he believed the present to be a proposal of that character. Some years ago, for the convenience of the locality in question, a sum of money was advanced out of the Consolidated Fund on the faith of tolls to be levied on the bridge. Until that money was entirely repaid there ought to be no diminution of the security so given.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the latter argument of the hon. Gentleman rather showed that jewellers' shops should not be permitted in the City because they were incentives to crime, and the opponents of the Bill seemed to argue on this principle when they said that there was so much fraud that business of this kind could not be carried on at all. The opponents of the Bill wished to prevent the English trading public from doing what they liked with their own. It was poor testimony to the honesty of British capitalists to sup pose that there would be a rush of capital in the direction described by the opponents of the Bill, and that it would be advanced with a fraudulent tendency. This argument presumed, besides, a considerable amount of folly as well as dishonesty on the part of the capitalist, because if you were to trust £10,000 or £100,000 to a man who was to deceive the public you must assume, for the success of such a collusion, that he would assist you in defrauding others, but would not assist others in defrauding you. He doubted whether a man of this kind would be able to impose upon the sharp money-lenders of London. If capitalists and men of straw desired to collude and deceive they had ample means of doing so at present. Did they not hear of many men with £5,000 or £7,000, getting credit to the amount of £200,000 or £300,000? It was the public and not capitalists who were really anxious to have the Bill passed. The question really amounted to this—whether a contract should be allowed to be made freely between two men or not. He believed that the proposed system would not lead to fraud in the way suggested, and that the managing partners would not allow those who advanced their money to share in the profits without sharing in the
 1296
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought the proposal of the First Commissioner of Works to refer the Bill to a Select Committee was a most reasonable one.
 MR. MOOR  said, it was clear that the second clause of the Bill did not govern the case of the servants or the widows and the children. As it was at present drawn he believed it would be a dead letter. He did not think it likely that any person who risked money to a trader in difficulties, with a right of receiving a rate of interest for the profits, would do so if he were bound by the penalty contained in the second clause, and in the present state of the law a man advancing money under these circumstances would exact 20, 30, and even 50 or 60 per cent, while cases constantly arising in our Law Courts proved that this was actually the case. Such a person would be entitled to receive, to the detriment of the trade creditors, 50 or 60 per cent. In such a case was it likely that a man would lend his money upon the fair chance of receiving a rate of interest out of the profits of the trade when he knew that if the trader failed he would have no chance of receiving a sixpence? He did not object to the principle of the Bill, and in much that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman as to the benefits that had flowed from limited liability he quite concurred; but he would suggest that a proviso should be attached to the first clause to the effect that every contract for a loan of money to a trader, upon a certain rate of interest out of the profits of trade, should be registered. In the absence of such a proviso they would be opening the door to a large amount of fraud. It had been stated that registration would be useless, because the person who lent the money would not be known, but he only desired that the fact should be registered.
 MR. J. A. TURNER,  in seconding the Amendment, said, he wished to explain that he had. no objection whatever to the principle of limited liability. He believed that under that system many extensive businesses, both in banking and mercantile operations, had been carried on, which would never have been contemplated under another system. He thought that great advantages had been derived from the establishment of limited liability in joint-stock companies, but the confidence of the public had been given to those companies mainly by reason of the system of registration and publicity of accounts which were required of them. But under this Bill nothing of the kind was provided for, and the public would be perfectly ignorant as to the position of any concern which might have a sleeping partner, or rather a sleeping lender of money. He would have at all times—without the creditors being at all aware of the fact—the opportunity of taking from the profits of the concern with which he was connected a large proportion of the profits for which no doubt he would bargain when he was lending his money—a proportion which would not only represent the capital he had advanced, but ultimately the whole of the capital itself. In the course of a few years, if the concern should fail, the creditors would find that they had been left in the lurch, and that the capital had to a very great extent been withdrawn by the lender who had, in reality, been an exhausting creditor. He, therefore, disapproved of the Bill. The Manchester Chamber of Commerce had intrusted him with a petition against the Bill unless the principles of
 1285
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he had to express his astonishment that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not present to protect the public revenue. If an Irish Member were to ask for £96,000 out of the Consolidated Fund for the purposes of Ireland he would be looked upon by the right hon. Gentleman as a mendicant. There was not the slightest necessity for the Bill, which sought to effect for the metropolis, what the House would be loath to do for any other part of the Empire.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he ventured to surmise, notwithstanding the opinions which had been expressed by the right hon. Gentleman and others to the contrary, that the object of the Bill was to alter the law of partnership in a most material point, in a point which had been hitherto accepted as constituting the true test of partnership. The whole of the law, on that point would be impaired by the Bill as it now stood. The right hon. Gentleman said that the measure was intended to bring together capital and skill, to raise a competition against large corporations and trading companies, and to avert strikes. How it was to avert strikes he could not see, and he could neither admit that a stimulus to competition was required, nor that any fresh means for bringing capital and skill together were necessary, as there never was a time when capital and skill were on such cordial terms. The terms in the Bill were very vague. A lender might be a mere lender of capital to another, or a capitalist employing his servant, or a principal employing his agent. In either of those cases he might take a lion's share of nine-tenths of the profits, and
 1289 1290
 MR. JOHN PEEL  said, before moving the Amendment of which he had given notice, he wished to explain his objections to the Bill. In the first place, he could not assent to the declaration in the preamble, "that it was expedient to alter the law relating to partnership." He believed there was no part of the world in which such great facilities existed for the transaction of commercial affairs as in England, where capital found its way so readily into channels of enterprize, and where credit was 60 extended, and at the same time founded upon such great security. The present law of partnership was one of the main props upon which our present healthy credit system had been erected, and he could not find out that there was any important portion of the commercial
 1282 1283 1284
 MR. MALINS  said, he must protest against the doctrines laid down by his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Bovill) that the Bill was one under which the lender would incur no risk whatever, while he would share in the profits. This was certainly not the principle of the present Bill, because it jeopardized his capital the moment it was advanced. All the evils contemplated by the opponents of the Bill could be brought about by a loan of money at a fixed rate of interest. He had heard of a case in which the lender and borrower met every three months to fix the rate of interest to be paid, and it was increased or diminished in proportion to the amount of profits. That was doing indirectly what this Bill proposed to do directly. The arguments he had heard against the Bill were the old arguments which were used against limited liability, and it was one of the satisfactions he had that he did his best to establish that important principle for which he had contended. Capital and skill ought to participate alike, but there was great difficulty in bringing them together. The Bill of the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield) was one to establish limited liability between ostensible partners; but the case now contemplated was one in which a man was not, in point of fact, a partner, but a lender of money. The evils which his hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Thomas Baring) said would arise under this Bill existed at present to an extent which was discreditable. They all deplored the case of a bank which affected a Member of that House (Mr. Spooner), for whom they had great respect and affection. He alluded to a bank in the Midland Counties, which everybody for twenty years believed to be as good as the Bank of England. It came suddenly to a stop, creating great ruin in the district, and then it was discovered that it became insolvent twenty years ago, when the money partner drew out all his capital. The fact was, that under the present law there was greater facility for taking out capital in a firm than there would be under this Bill. Take a case, which had actually occurred, of an advertisement inserted in a newspaper, in which a person required capital to work a patent. A gentleman came forward, and the borrower said that it was a most admirable
 1297
 MR. HANBURY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been called to the state of the road lying between Newington Green and Hornsey, and whether he is aware that the duty of keeping in repair this road is a disputed point between the parishes of Hornsey and Islington?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the House had twice assented to the second reading of Bills precisely the same as that they were then discussing.
 MR. MILKER GIBSON,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, it would be in the recollection of the House that, in the course of the proceedings of the present Parliament, his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield) had introduced a measure for the purpose of amending the law of partnership. The object of that measure was to enable a person or persons carrying on business with unlimited liability to enter into partnership with others who should be liable only for a specific amount, those others being designated "limited partners." The measure contained various rules and restrictions which rendered it necessary that the Bill should have a great number of clauses, and it proposed to effect a very considerable change in the law of partnership. It was referred to a Select Committee, of which he himself was a Member;
 1274 1275 
 "1. The advance of capital or money to be used in any trade or undertaking upon a contract with the person carrying on such a trade or undertaking that the person making such advance shall be remunerated solely by a share of the profits of the undertaking shall not of itself constitute the person making such advance a partner in the trade or undertaking, or render him responsible as such. "2. A contract for the remuneration of the servant or agent of any person engaged in any trade or undertaking by a share of the profits of such trade or undertaking shall not of itself render such servant or agent responsible as a partner thereof." 1276 1277 v. 1278 1279 v. "This case has been extremely well argued, and the discussion of it has enabled me to make up my mind, and removed the only difficulty I felt, which was whether, by construing this to be a partnership, we should not determine that if there was an annuity granted out of a banking-house to the widow, for instance, of a deceased partner, it would make her liable to the debts of the house, and involve her in a bankruptcy; but I think this case will not lead to that consequence."—[2  H. Bl. "Provided the annuity be not dependent on the profits of the business." "I know many cases in which persons have lent traders large sums of money at exorbitant rates of interest, and when bankruptcy or insolvency has followed, as usually happens in these cases, the lender has proved the whole amount of the debt and interest against the debtor's estate in competition with  bonâ fide 1280 bonâ fide "I cannot remember how many cases I have met with in which the parties have wished that a capitalist should advance capital into a business, and receive a share of profits, without incurring the liability of a partner; but men in business are now so familiar with the actual state of the law on the subject that the number of times which an attorney has been consulted upon such a subject will form no sure criterion of the number of times that the difficulty has been felt, as in most cases the parties themselves would know that what they sought to do was impracticable. The course which in my experience has been taken to get rid of the legal difficulty in those cases in which the transaction has not been abandoned altogether has varied according to the circumstances. I have known the difficulty disposed of in the following different ways:—By an ordinary partnership, with stringent restrictions on the working partner for the protection of the moneyed partner; by the formation of a small joint-stock company, with limited liability; and by a loan, at a high fixed rate of interest, secured according to the circumstances of the case. I have also met with cases in which the agreement has been entered into, and the secret partner has sought to protect himself by a refined distinction, recognized by some of the cases, between taking a share in the profits, which would make him liable as a partner, and taking a sum of money in proportion to the profits (whatever that may mean), which has been held not to constitute a partner." 1281
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, with regard to the first question asked by my hon. Friend, whether a drawback will be allowed upon stocks of tea which would have, by some
 1241 d. 1242
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I believe that I may confidently answer the question in the negative.
 MR. BAXTER  said, that the arguments of the hon. Member for Tamworth were the same which had been urged against extending the principle of limited liability to joint-stock companies. The questions of registration and publicity were questions for consideration in Committee, and did not affect the principle of the Bill. He could not agree with the hon. Member (Mr. Moor) who had said that the Bill would be a dead letter. On the contrary, he thought it would be extensively acted upon, and would be productive of the greatest advantages to the commercial community. A great change had taken place in public opinion as to the principle of limited liability, and now in the north, the whole mercantile community were in favour of it. He was prepared to give the Bill his cordial support.
 ME. GREGORY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Huntingdon (Mr. Thomas Baring), as Trustee to the National Gallery, Whether a Picture belonging to the Nation has been sent to Australia, whether the person who sent that Picture had a right to do so; and, if not, what steps the Trustees of the National Gallery are about to take?
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he believed that the measure would aggravate the evils already felt by too great an extension of the principle of limited liability. The case referred to of the Bank at Birmingham would become the rule instead of being, as at present, the exception. At present, if a man had dealings with a limited liability company, he knew that each shareholder was liable only to the extent of his subscription, and the House might perhaps be surprised to know that, taking the whole list of limited liability companies, there were scarcely more than 10 per cent of them paying. It was now proposed that a man might withdraw money without liability, after receiving a large proportion of the profits of such company. In his opinion the present Bill was a monstrous misapplication of the principle of limited liability.
 MR. SCHOLEFIELD  said, it had been his duty to introduce in two Sessions of Parliament a Bill founded on the same principle, and he thanked the right hon. Gentleman for having introduced a Bill which he (Mr. Scholefield) thought would be so efficient and simple as the one now before the House, and which he believed was a better Bill than his own. The present Parliament had on several occasions affirmed the principle of this Bill, and therefore he had been in hopes that the hon. Member for Tamworth (Mr. J. Peel) would not have felt it his duty to have moved the Amendment which he had done. All the objections which had been offered to the Bill were objections not so much to the principle of the Bill as to its details, and he thought, therefore, that the hon. Gentleman would have done well to have allowed the Bill to go to a Committee. The hon. Member for Manchester was anxious that there should be publicity in regard to the names of those who lent their money on the ground that they shared in the profits, but he (Mr. Scholefield) wanted to know why a man who lent his money on the ground that he should share in the profits of a concern should have his name registered any more than a man who lent his money out at 5, 6, or 7 per cent. If a man lent money on condition of his receiving a return from the profits, he would not be paid in case of the insolvency of the man to whom he had lent that money until the demands of the other creditors had been satisfied; whereas, if the money were lent at a fixed rate of interest, the world knew nothing of the transaction, and the man who lent the money would share with the other creditors in the estate, and would in many cases receive the largest amount. The law as it stood at present did not depend upon the deliberate decision of the Legislature at all. It was not governed by statutes, but by the decision of one particular Judge, and the correctness of that decision had been questioned by many of the first lawyers in the kingdom. He believed that this measure would effect a great improvement in the
 1286
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether further Papers respecting proceedings in China will be laid upon the table of the House; whether the Consul at Amoy has reported his visit to the Taeping Chief at Chang-chow, and with what results; and whether information has reached the Foreign Office of the reported revolt of the Imperialist Troops in the cities of Hang-chow and Chang-chow, with the rumoured connivance of Tsing-kwo-fan, the anti-foreign Minister of State?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I very much regret the unavoidable absence of my noble Friend at the head of the Government, in whose name the notice was given of the Motion which it now devolves upon me to ask the House to agree to. I feel, however, that it is comparatively unimportant by whom the Motion is proposed, because I am confident that the Address to the Crown which I am about to ask the House to agree to is one which will meet with the cordial and unanimous assent of the House. When the news a few days ago of the assassination of the President of the United States, and of the attempted assassination—for I hope we may now confidently expect that it will not have been a successful attempt—of Mr. Seward reached this country, the first impression in the mind of every one was that the intelligence could not be true. It was hoped by every one that persons could not be found capable of committing so atrocious a crime. But when the truth was forced upon us, when we could no longer entertain any doubt as to the correctness of the intelligence, the feeling which succeeded was one of universal sorrow, horror, and indignation. It was felt as if some great calamity had befallen ourselves. In the Civil War, the existence and the long continuance of which we have so sincerely deplored, it is well known that the Government of this country, acting, as I believe, in accordance with the almost unanimous feeling of this country, has maintained a strict and impartial neutrality. But it is notorious, and it could not in a great country like this be otherwise, that different opinions have been entertained
 1243 Cries of and 1244 1245
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its object was to remove the toll as far as the foot passengers were concerned. The whole sum which had been advanced out of the Consolidated Fund for the construction of Battersea Park had been recouped; and the fund which remained was applicable to setting the bridge free. To the working classes especially this would be a great boon; as, since the improvements on the north side of the river, they had been obliged in large numbers to seek for dwellings on the south side of the Thames. One of many similar cases had been brought under his notice, in which a man living in a £20 house and paying £3 10 s. 18s., 1302
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  observed, that all the money had been repaid.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it was his intention that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, when there would be an end of it if it was found that no means could be devised to refund to the Government the £96,000 in question.
 MR. CAVE  said, it appeared to him that the opponents of the Bill based their objections to it on the ground of the uncertainty of the commercial transactions that would be effected under it. But if that uncertainty were great under the principle of limited liability, what, he asked, was it now under that of unlimited liability? He reminded the House of the vast number of failures they had had recently, and of the unlimited confidence reposed in many of those firms up to the very moment of their failure. When they remembered the failures of banks such as Hammersley's, Paul, Strahan, and Co.'s, and a still more recent instance, there could be no doubt that under no system
 1287 s., 1288
 MR. BOVILL  said, that the law was not quite so unreasonable as had been stated by the Attorney General. The principle of the law was perfectly intelligible—namely, that a man who took the benefit should also sustain the loss. Every
 1292 1293
 MR. BOVILL : The Bill, when it had first been introduced, had been read a second time and had then been abandoned; and it had, upon a subsequent occasion, been referred to a Select Committee, who had introduced into it a number of Amendments which had been struck out of the present measure. It was said that this was a very slight alteration of the law, but he could not regard it in that light. He contended that the Board of Trade were bound, before introducing the Bill, to see that it contained those guarantees for the safety of the public which were recommended by a Select Committee of the House, and which it contained when introduced by private Members. In the interest of the public he should feel it his duty to give to such a proposal the most decided opposition; and he should cordially support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Tamworth.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he could not understand how the right hon. Gentleman could vote for the second reading of a Bill of which, as it stood, he so entirely disapproved. He could not see how Chelsea Bridge could be placed in a different position from Waterloo or Lambeth Bridges, or why, if the poor were to be relieved from the payment of tolls in the case of the one, they should not be freed from them in the case of the others also. As for the plea that the working men would be benefited, was it not a fact that the moment the tolls were abolished the rents would be raised? The abolition of the toll at this one bridge was a jobbing piece of favouritism, which would place the House in an absurd position. He was decidedly against the payment of all tolls, but then he thought they ought to be abolished on some general principle.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the Board of Works in Ireland had power to lend money to the amount of one-half of the cost of the drainage works in a drainage district, and as the Government rent-charge for the repayment of that loan took precedence of every other claim, the proprietors of the district were placed under some difficulty in raising the other half; and he proposed, therefore, to intro-duce a Bill for the purpose of giving the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland the power to lend money to the whole amount of the cost of the drainage works.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  rose to call attention to the petitions which had been presented by the officers of the late Indian Army. He said, it would be in the recollection of the House that last year, in consequence of a discussion which took place, the Secretary of State for India stated that it was his intention to carry out to the full, and in every particular, the Report of the Royal Commissioners who had been appointed to inquire into the various grievances brought before the notice of the House by the officers of the Indian army. After such a pledge as that had been given it was a very serious question to find, a year afterwards, twenty-three general officers, over 240 field officers, and more than 500 officers of lower ranks, not one of whom could have served less than seven years in the East Indies, should have thought proper to petition the House that the Report should be carried out. On ordinary occasions the mere fact of 750 officers petitioning a Government, from the general officer to the subaltern, and a large proportion filling high ranks in the service, was a very serious question for consideration, either for England or any other nation in the world. Where such a large number of officers felt the necessity of forwarding petitions, there must be a large
 1319 1320 "The privileges and advantages thus referred to are detailed in the Appendix, but may be briefly stated to consist in a prescriptive right to rise strictly by seniority to the rank and emoluments of colonel of a regiment, with the option of retiring before attaining that position, or after various periods of service, on a scale of pay or pension considerably higher than that granted to officers of your Majesty's army of the line. No change, therefore, can be made which would in any way disturb the system of promotion by seniority as affecting officers now in the service, or interfere with any of their existing privileges; but the 57th section of the above recited Act gives to your Majesty full power to frame new regulations on
 1321 "We do not understand in what manner any change can be introduced into the existing system of promotion in the local army of India without an infringement upon the guarantee contained in the 56th and 58th clauses of the Government of India Act of 1858 (21 & 22  Vict. 1322 "The Bill of the late Government did refer to the Indian array; and I must confess that the manner in which the reference was made, made me devoutly to wish that no reference had been made to it at all. I do not mean the extension of the European force serving in India; that is a matter, however, which may ultimately prove much more difficult than we have yet been accustomed to acknowledge; but rather the manner in which it dealt with the Native army properly so called. As regards that army and its officers they were no longer to be in the Company's service, nor, practically, were they to be in the Queen's service. No provision was made with regard to that vast body, upon which we must, under all circumstances, place a great part of our reliance, both for the maintenance of order and the defence of the country. It appeared, according to the provisions of that Bill, that the whole of that great Native army, including the body of officers by which it is commanded, was not to be a Queen's force nor a Company's force, but a mere local force, of a secondary character, deprived in a great degree of the military spirit which necessarily follows and is fostered by belonging to a distinguished service, even as if it were no more than an ordinary constabulary or police force in England … I want to know in what position you are about to place the Indian army, what provision you are going to make to give full scope for its energies, and to enable it to hold that rank and title in the eyes of the world and Europe to which it has a right. These are difficult questions; they involve the entire question of the re-organization of that army, and yet they cannot be excluded from consideration in a final scheme for the government of India."—[3  Hansard, Corps d' Etat Major 1323 1324 1325 1326 "The Madras and the Bombay armies exist nearly in their original integrity, and it is a palpable fallacy to speak of the Bengal army as so completely defunct that the assurance of Parliament is inapplicable to the large body of its European officers—men who have evinced the utmost devotion under the most trying circumstances, many of whom rendered eminent service to the State, and all of whom are temporarily employed in the command of a force, European and Native, equal, and even superior, in amount to the strength of the Bengal army before the mutiny of 1857" 1327 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying She will be graciously pleased to redress all such grievances complained of by the Officers of the late Indian armies as were admitted by the 'Commission on the Memorials of Indian Officers' to have arisen by a departure from the assurances given by Parliament by 21 & 22  Vict. Vict.
 CAPTAIN JERVIS : Then it will be my duty to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the circumstances under which this officer's name was attached to the petition.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether it is true that the permission accorded to the Band of the Commissionaires to play in St. James's Park has been withdrawn; and, if so, on what grounds, and for what cause; and, whether any Correspondence has passed on the subject; and, if so, whether he has any objection to lay it upon the table?
 MR. COWPER : Sir, in reply to the Question of the hon. and gallant Member I have to state that some of the inhabitants of New Street, Spring Gardens, Spring Garden Terrace, and Carlton Gardens remonstrated on account of the annoyance which they stated they experienced from the playing of these bands just in front of their windows. Although the Street Music Act does not apply in precise terms to the band playing on that side of their houses in the Park, yet it appeared to me that it did apply in spirit, and I thought, out of deference to the Act of the Legislature in passing that statute, that it would not be right to grant permission to this band to ploy in front of the houses in question, as they had been allowed to do before the passing of the Act. The withdrawal of the permission previously given—for the permission was only annual—was not made by means of correspondence, and I have, therefore, no correspondence on the subject which I can lay upon the table of the House.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX : I would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he is aware that the permission was worth £1,000 a year to the Commissionaires, and whether he will grant a piece of ground within St. James's Park, away from the houses, during this season, and see whether any objection will be made to such a course?
 MR. COWPER  was understood to say, that he would take the subject into consideration.
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make any alteration in the carriage of treasure on
 1317
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, said, it was the intention of the Board of Admiralty shortly to lay upon the table of the House a plan in reference to the conveyance of treasure by Her Majesty's Ships.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he had given notice that he would move the following Motion:—
 "That the modification of Article 93 in the Education Code, 1865, according to a Minute of Council of the 11th day of March, 1864, by which the reduction of Public Grants to Schools by the amount of any Private Endowments is suspended only in the case of small Rural Schools is unsatisfactory."
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, on that under-standing he would beg to withdraw the Motion.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, if it was to be understood that an opportunity would be given to discuss the new Minute when it was introduced he would withdraw the Motion of which he had given notice.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : In a matter of this sort I shall certainly not shrink from the hon. and gallant Member. Not long ago I received a letter from an officer whose name I will give. It is from Colonel Cherry, a lieutenant-colonel commanding a regiment in the Madras army. He writes to me thus—
 "Saugor, Central India, March 22. "Sir,—I write to inform you that a pamphlet headed 'Another Grievance,' has been printed, in which the author has used my name in the most unwarrantable manner, citing my case as a grievance. I beg to state it was composed and printed entirely without my knowledge, authority, or consent. I never knew anything of it till a printed copy was sent me. It is quite illegal, as the printer's name is not put on the pamphlet. I have no grievance, and have never petitioned, and am very much annoyed at my name being so used. Believe me, &c, P. G. CHERRY, Colonel 4th Madras Light Cavalry." 1330 "Captain W. Winson, a captain in the Bengal Staff Corps, now commands the 18th Regiment Native Infantry, and has under him Major R. Larkin, of the late 49th Regiment of Native Infantry," 1331 "In the 46th Regiment Madras Native Infantry, the third captain, Alfred Cooper, was superseded not only by two captains junior to him, but also by the senior lieutenant, A. M'Neill, who was made a substantive major in the Staff Corps." 1332 "The Court must take cognizance of what offices were legally saleable, and they knew that a commission in the East India Company's service was not legally saleable, and no rule of the Indian service could repeal the statute. There must be judgment for the defendant." The Times "A rule was immediately obtained for a new trial in the Court of Exchequer. After taking time to consider, judgment was given by the Judges on the 4th of June, 1855. In the unanimous opinion of the Bench, the transaction by which a sum of money was secured to the major of the regiment to which these officers belonged, to induce his retirement, was illegal, and the bond given by the defendant could not be enforced by law. The transaction amounted to the gift of a money consideration to an officer holding a commission in the East India service to induce him to leave it. It behoved the Court to let it go forth that, in its opinion, any tampering with the sale of a public office not only rendered the transaction void, but subjected the parties concerned to the penalties consequent on the commission of a misdemeanor. There must, therefore, be judgment for the defendant." 1333 1334 1335 1336 1337 "It could not have been intended to prevent the Crown, if in the interests of India and of the Empire at largo it should deem it necessary, from reducing the numbers of the Indian army or altering its organization. It would have boon in the power of the Company to make such reductions and changes, and a similar power was transferred to the Crown." 1338 élite "The best regiments in Bengal were the Irregular Cavalry, and the same holds good throughout India. In these regiments you had only three or four English officers, but they were picked men, and so were the Native officers. I would apply this system to the whole Native army—Infantry, as well as Cavalry. The saving of expense would be great, for, if I am not mistaken, one regular Native Cavalry regiment costs as much as three times the number of irregulars. But the saving of expense would be nothing compared to the gain in efficiency," 1339 1340 "A Staff Corps to be formed for service in India, to consist of an unlimited number of officers of all ranks. All officers of the local armies and of the Line now holding permanent Staff or detached appointments, excepting such as are purely military, but including service with irregulars, to have the option, subject to the approval of the Indian Government, of being transferred to the Staff Corps or returning to regimental duty … Promotion in the Staff Corps to be governed by length of service, and to be irrespective of departmental position … The whole of the officers of irregular Native corps to be on the Staff list. … We conceive, however, that officers so circumstanced must hold a commission for their substantive rank in lieu of their former regimental commission." 1341 1342 1343 "But what the officers complain of on this head is, the immediate and prospective super-session in rank of regimental officers by those
 1344 1345 "Under the measures directed by the right hon. the Secretary of State, the chief cause of complaint, as frequently brought to the notice of Government by his Excellency—namely, the super-session of regimental officers by their juniors of the Staff Corps—has been removed entirely. It may at the same time be observed that, while some officers will continue to suffer super-session, the privileges now conferred on the army generally are specially advantageous to the officers who have not joined the Staff Corps, and to those who have been unfortunate in their promotion. It is not for the Commander-in-Chief to question or discuss the measures deliberately sanctioned and directed by Her Majesty's Government in redress of the grievances of the officers of the Indian service, but his Excellency maybe permitted to say that, without cancelling the amalgamation arrangements altogether, he does not think that a more equitable scheme could have been devised than that which the Bombay authorities desire to suspend." "It is scarcely possible that extensive changes in the army should ever be made without unfavourably affecting the position of some individuals relatively—that is, as compared with that of some others—and the instance in question is no exception to this rule. But we think that there can be no doubt that, by the measures ordered in your despatch, substantial hardship in the matter of promotion is avoided." 1346 1347 "If in the process of passing from a war to a peace establishment any regiments are reduced absolutely, and the strength of the army reduced to a corresponding extent, then the number of colonels must necessarily be reduced also, and the number of allowances at the same time." 1348 1349 1350 Army List, 1351 1352 1353
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : I have sometimes been accused of being unwilling to rise until late in these Indian discussions, but on this occasion I am desirous of presenting myself to the House at the earliest possible moment, not only to answer the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, but to state the general course which has been pursued by the Secretary of State in Council upon
 1328 1329
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, in his judgment the amalgamation, as it was called, of the Indian army had not been carried out with stinginess; but, on the contrary, there had been great profusion and cost, the result being that even those who had derived benefit from the profusion were dissatisfied. The great error had been the creation of a most extravagant and unnecessary Staff Corps; but the greatest mistake of all was committed by the House in passing the Amalgamation Act of 1860. That was an Act which, under the pretence of stopping recruiting from England for service in India, at once annihilated a most admirable service, which with some amendments and revision might have continued with the highest possible advantage to the State. At that time a perfect mania seemed to have attacked the authorities at the Horse Guards and the India Office and even to have reached Calcutta with respect to Indian affairs. They appeared to imagine that henceforth India was to be governed by 100,000 English bayonets, and that the only question to be decided was whether it was to be done by means of the Queen's troops or of a local service. The plan of ruling India by brute force broke down from financial considerations. It was found that sufficient money could not be raised in India to pay 100,000 British troops sent from this country. It was at first proposed to retain only some 20,000 or 30,000 Native troops, who were to be employed on unhealthy stations, where the English soldier could not exist. But all this had entirely passed away; sounder opinions prevailed, and the Native troops now amounted to 155,000 in number, but, as he was informed, they were very inefficient, owing to a relaxation in the regimental organization. In proof of the profusion connected with the amalgamation, he need only cite the case of several hundred cadets being sent out to the Indian service during the last year of its existence,
 1369 régime, 1370 élite 1371 pari passu régime
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If it is his intention to introduce a Bill to amend the thirty-eighth section of the Drainage Act of 1863, which limits the Power of the Board of Works in Ireland to make advances to any Drainage Board to one moiety of the amount proposed to be expended by such Board; and, if so, when he will be prepared to introduce the Bill?
 COLONEL SYKES : Sir, the question before the House is one of very grave import, more than 712 British officers and gentlemen, comprising 23 general officers and 280 field officers, have appealed to the House in individual petitions to redress wrongs for the violation of their rights and privileges by the Secretary of State for India, and which were guaranteed in two separate Acts of Parliament. My right hon. Friend has, in my opinion, in his speech, very unfairly endeavoured to diminish the weight and sincerity of those 712 petitions of British gentlemen, by adducing a solitary instance of a recreant petitioner who denied the object for which his solo signature had been attached to his own petition. I would fain hope, for the honour of a British officer, that my right hon. Friend has been misinformed. But though he had made out a dozen cases of unfounded grievances, the remaining 700 are entitled to consideration. But the question is not confined to the wrongs of individuals; it involves also the larger and more important question of the adoption of a new policy in the military government of the Empire of India, in which he dormant the seeds for future development of inevitable disaster. I will, however, on the present occasion, confine myself to the question of the redress of grievances, and reserve the consideration of the new military policy to a future time. I shall have to prove to the House that the whole of the wrongs inflicted, and the present serious discontent, are traceable to the rejection by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for India of the advice given to him by several official bodies and distinguished officers, all of great experience, whom he had consulted. After the mutiny of the Bengal army, with the exception of fourteen regiments of In-
 1354 Vict. Viet. & Viet. Vict. "That the advantages as to pay, pensions, allowances, privileges, and promotions, and otherwise, secured to the military forces of the East India Company, by the Act of the 21st and 22nd year of the Queen, cap. 106, sees. 38, 56, and 68 respectively, shall be maintained in any plan for the re-organization of the Indian army, anything in this Act contained notwithstanding." 1355 1356 "The cadet (I quote his words) who went into the army in 1860, who, perhaps, would never see a day's service, will rise to the rank of colonel or general officer in a regular course by seniority, by successive steps, and without interruption from the day he enters." 1357 modus operandi 1358 "To the amalgamation advocated by the majority of the Royal Commissioners, the Committee perceive other and almost insurmountable obstacles. The first is that it would occasion a breach of the Guarantee Clause 56." "Except at exorbitant cost to the State the Committee have failed to discover any practicable suggestion by which the inherent difficulties of amalgamation are attempted to be met." "I believe that whatever may have been our opinions before on account of political convenience and the guarantees given by Parliament to the officers of the Indian army, all the considerations must be swept entirely away." "It is necessary to look the state of things straight in the face and blot out altogether all local and partial or class considerations, the Parliamentary Guarantee being provided for in some other manner as best may be done." "I need not add that these views, in my opinion, embody a sound policy, and the time is not far distant when it will be found absolutely necessary to revert to it." 1359 "Believing as I do that that measure (amalgamation) if carried out will prove most injurious to this country, and that it will inflict grievous injustice on the servants of the East India Company, I have deemed it my duty to record a solemn protest against its adoption." "That the interests of India, and therefore those of the Empire at large, require that the army of India shall henceforth be, to the same extent as heretofore, a localized army 'serving in India." "It is certainly very desirable not to touch the armies of the two minor Presidencies for the present, if it can be avoided." "If on any grave question it is competent to the Minister to set the Council on one side, and to consult them or not at his pleasure, it is obvious that the objects of the Legislature will be frustrated, and that the Council must entirely fail in the efficient performance of the duties intrusted to them by Parliament. We are, therefore, of opinion that the course adopted by the Secretary of State in refusing to bring the Report of the Political and Military Committee on the future organization of the Indian army before the Council, or allowing the subject to be discussed there, is contrary to the provisions of the Act of the 21 & 22  Vict. 1360 "Saw so many difficulties and injuries resulting from it to the extent even of rendering it impracticable;" 1361 "Officers will not be finally removed from their regiments, and transferred to the Staff Corps until after a period of probation, and they become permanently appointed to the Staff." "By applying the principles which have been laid down in raising new regiments, and generally in all army augmentations. "If the present organization is maintained, and it was maintained in the Madras and Bombay armies, we feel some difficulty in suggesting that promotions shall not be made in room of every one of these retirements." "We conceive it would be absolutely requisite to promote in the room of these retiring, and so with any Corps that is maintained." 1362 "It is almost useless to add that any measure which retards the flow of promotion, and postpones the prospect of succession to the highest paid rank of the service, must inflict a very heavy disappointment and carry with it the sense or serious injury, if not of positive wrong, in the minds of the officers of the Indian army." 1363 Vivâ voce 1364 Geo. 1365 1366 1367 1368
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, certainly an opportunity would be given to discuss the new Minute, and if its provisions did not meet the right hon. Gentleman's wishes he could again introduce the Motion which he was to have moved that night.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sorry that his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education was not present; but in reply to the Question which had just been put, he might state that he believed that it was his right hon. Friend's intention, in the course of a very few days, to lay upon the table of the House an altered Minute to the effect stated by the right hon. Member.
 MR. BAINES : Sir, I am sure the House will favour me with its indulgence whilst I once more appeal to its sense of justice and wisdom to redress an acknowledged wrong, pressing upon the great majority of the people. I say an acknowledged wrong, because the defective state of the representation has been admitted as such by the highest authorities in the kingdom. Indeed, I know of no subject in modern times on which there has been a greater weight and concurrence of authority. Nor is the question admitted merely as a grievance, but also as a grievance demanding practical and immediate remedy. With this view no less than five times has the defective state of the representation been recommended by Her Majesty on the Throne to Her Parliament, with a view to practical reform. Four Prime Ministers, at the head of five Administrations, have introduced measures for that purpose. This House itself has passed the second reading of a Bill for the Reform of the representation without a division; and the House which preceded it still more emphatically acknowledged the grievance by rejecting a Bill presented by the then Government, in consequence of its falling short of the amount of extension of the franchise which they thought should be granted. Above all, the constituencies of England and of the United Kingdom have at the last general election expressed their opinion on this subject in a way not to be mistaken. For it is notorious that this was the question that was submitted to the constituencies at that election, and that they sent us here, charged above all other things with the duty of reforming the representation of the people. 1373 1374 1375 1376 1377 1378 1379 1380 1381 1382 Chronological Register of the British Parliament, 1383 1384 "I beg the House to consider well those effects of time, and what has been the character of the twenty-five years that have elapsed since the Reform of 1832. They form no ordinary period. In a progressive country and a progressive age progress has been not only rapid but precipitate. There is no instance in the history of Europe of such an increase of population as has taken place in this country, during this period. There is no example in the history of Europe or of America, of a creation and accumulation of capital so vast as has occurred in this country in those twenty-five years. And I believe the general diffusion of intelligence has kept pace with that increase of population and wealth. In that period you have brought science to bear on social life in a manner no philosopher in his dreams could ever have anticipated. In that space of time you have in a manner annihilated both time and space." 1385 1386 1387 1388 1389
 MR. BAZLEY  said, that in seconding the Motion, he must congratulate the hon. Member for Leeds for the excellent speech in which he had brought forward this Bill. He thought the speech was worthy of all praise because it truly represented the opinions and feelings of a large proportion of the working classes of this country. All classes had become, as it were, more federated in consequence of the spread of education and the means afforded to the great body of the people to form opinions, equally with the upper and middle classes, on all the great events which took place from day to day. The people out of doors were close observers of what passed within the House, and he believed that they would obtain—and that at no distant day—not only a considerable extension of the franchise, but a redistribution of political power. Much had been said about the apathy of the public on this question; but he believed that the charge of apathy attached more to that House than to the people out of doors. Broken pledges had not done much to give the people of the country confidence in their representatives. On both sides of the House the necessity of Reform was admitted by leading politicians; and on both sides measures had been introduced which would have enfranchised the people to a great extent, and provided for a redistribution of political power. Neither side, however, had been able to carry the measures they had proposed, and he feared that those failures had not tended to increase the confidence of the people in the present Parliament. He feared impressions prevailed that the conduct of the working classes in the northern counties and the manufacturing districts had to some extent diminished the confidence of the Legislature in the great body of the working classes in this country; but it was a mistake to suppose that the active and intelligent men of the North, because they occasionally spoke out in plain language, were disloyal, and not fit to be intrusted with political power. On the contrary, his belief was that in expressing these opi-
 1390 1391 1392
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, I rise to move the Previous Question, and in so doing I must claim the indulgence of the House for a short time. I do not feel with the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley) that the fact of 80,000 Sunday-school children having been enabled to sing the National Anthem upon the opening of Peel Park is a sufficient reason for conferring the franchise upon the parents of those children. Neither can I adopt the view put forth by the hon. Member who moved the second reading (Mr. Baines) who, in his last observations, urged that the franchise ought to be extended in the manner he proposes because of the existence of railways and electric telegraphs. I must, however, refer to some former observations of the hon. Gentleman, who, as far as I could gather, seemed to reproach the Government with inconsistency upon this question. I have no desire to pronounce whether they have or have not been inconsistent in the course
 1393 1394 1395 "Your petitioners believe that any measure short of manhood suffrage will fail to secure justice, or give entire satisfaction to that great body who are at present deprived of political power." 1396 "Nevertheless, they pray that, as an instalment of political justice, your honourable House will pass into law the provisions of Mr. Baines's Bill, which confers the franchise on all inhabitant householders paying a £6 rental, and whereby the number of Parliamentary electors within the borough of Blackburn would be increased from 1,845, as at present, to upwards of 7,000." 1397 s. 1398 The Times d. "After him came Mr. Ayrton, who expressed exactly similar opinions, notwithstanding that he had been elected solely and simply because he advocated manhood suffrage. He would not follow Mr. Ayrton, as his twaddle was too contemptible to notice." 1399 "You have no business to set your foot in those walls—a man of such opinions as yours has no right to a seat in there." the "None of the Reform Bills hitherto brought forward were acceptable to the working classes. The admission of 150,000 by the £6 franchise cannot for a moment be considered satisfactory. We ask for manhood suffrage, equalized electoral districts, ballot, triennial Parliaments." 1400 1401 "My dear Lord—Returning from a trip of 400 miles, I found your letter. I had been away some time graining the cabins of the big steamers that run from Grand Haven to Wisconsin. I consider the time favourable for a consideration of the suffrage question, but only for a consideration of it. Any action of a satisfactory kind is impossible without a long, careful, and searching inquiry into the intellectual and moral condition of the masses, directed in good faith by the heads of parties, with a view to the extension of the suffrage. There is no ground between the present standard and manhood suffrage, save educational tests or the evidence of providential habits. The proposal of a £6 rental qualification would be an insult to those among the working classes whose intelligence, loyalty, and patience deserved consideration. Stop any workman you meet in our cities, he will tell you that his rent amounts to at least a sixth of his weekly earnings, or a fifth of his yearly income; this is of necessity, but from choice the proportion of an intelligent workman's rent to his income is much higher. I know London, Manchester, Glasgow, and many other towns and cities well, but do not know any mechanic, having respect for himself or his family, who would live in a £6 hovel. Workmen, heads of families, pay for lodgings 5 s., s., s., s., s. s. "Universal suffrage was part of my youthful creed, but I have seen it in operation. The illusion is dispelled. There is no man in America who will deny the existence of the most frightful baseness and corruption in all political matters here, and while you are pressing forward this nation wants to go back. Educational tests are proposed by most, but many, desirous to throw the odium on emigrants, propose that all persons shall reside twenty-one years here before becoming entitled to vote. This would be a long apprenticeship to liberty for a freeborn Briton. It is easy to talk about the working classes, but there are few who have studied them. The Volunteer army has got the flower of them; those who enter the ranks are dead to faction." 1402 "I think that fancy or provident franchises might well be carried out on the following or other bases:—1. By giving a vote to all who could show that for two years they had had not less than £50 in any chartered or Government savings bank. The effect of this condition would be to increase providence among the working classes to a very great degree. 2. By giving votes to all who pay income tax, and to all entered as Government annuitants under the recent Government Annuities Bill. As regards the question of Reform, the working classes at this moment, so far as I see, take but little interest in it. They look more to substantial comforts than to Reform. This much I do know, that they have little sympathy with that class of Reformers who would as yet have had the factory children working all but interminable hours in the factories, who would have had still the young engaged in the bleaching and dye work, all but chained to the stoves, and who are at the present time totally indifferent as to the long hours that the young are engaged in the mines of this country." 1403 1404 "In this sort of talk (not caring for individual representation) and in these instincts, surely one may trace the true principle of representation—that it should be a representation of classes and of great interests, not of individuals. A Parliament elected on the former principle (the organic principle) is a true mirror of our national life. A Parliament elected on the latter principle (the principle of disintegration) is a smashed mirror—each fragment represents something, but what the whole represents who shall say? Now a mere lowering of the franchise is a step in this last direction; neither right in philosophy nor likely to meet the healthy desire of the people, to have the wage paid class (as a class) more proportionately represented." 1405 "Houses which in 1832 were let at £10 would now bring a rental of £12 10 s. s., s. A laugh. 1406 1407 History of the Indian Mutiny "In that country (India) public men are happily not exposed to the pernicious influences which in England shrivel them so fast into party leaders and Parliamentary chiefs. With perfect singleness of aim and pure sincerity of purpose they go with level eyes straight at the public good, never looking up in fear at the suspended sword of a Parliamentary majority, and never turned aside by that fear into devious paths of trickery and finesse." 1408 1409
 MR. BLACK,  in seconding the Amendment, said, that he considered the course proposed by this Bill to be exceedingly dangerous, that it was only the first step in a downward progress towards revolution. What is it that this Bill proposes to do? It is to confer the electoral franchise on every occupant of premises of the yearly value of £6—which premises, it is explained, must consist of a dwelling-house exclusive of land, and the house must be of the yearly value of not less than £3, or 1 s. d. 1410 1411 "Your petitioners desire the enlargement of the Reform Bill, extending the borough franchise to all householders." "We the undersigned loyal subjects of Her Majesty are industrious working men who pay our share of the taxes and help to maintain and increase the national wealth. We think it unjust that we and our brethren throughout England should as a rule be declared unworthy to enjoy the rights of citizens. We pray, therefore, that another Reform Bill may be passed to give to all honest, industrious, and loyal men their rights of election." 1412 "There were evidently two modes in which Reform might be approached. The one was to consider the right of voting as a personal privilege possessed by every man of sound mind and of years of discretion as an inherent inalienable right, belonging to him as a member of a free country. According to this theory the votes of the whole male adult population form the only basis of legitimate government. Other political writers and eminent statesmen while of opinion that a free and full representation of the people forms a necessary condition of free Government acknowledge no personal right of voting as inalienable and essential. They consider that the purpose to be attained is good Government, the freedom of the people within the State, and their security from without, and that the best mode of attaining these ends is the problem to be solved. It seemed to me that these last reasoners were in the right."
 MR. LEATHAM : Sir, it is an admitted maxim that it is never too late to mend, and we may all further admit that it is never too late to learn. Now, if I recollect rightly, the hon. Member who has just sat down (Mr. Black) gave his constituents a few years ago a series of speeches in approval of the measure proposed by the noble Lord the then Member for the City of London. [Mr. BLACK: No, no.] Then I am misinformed. The hon. Gentleman is a fitting seconder of the Amendment which has been moved by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire, because the noble Lord the Member for the City of London stated that he withdrew his Bill in deference of the speeches of the hon. Gentleman and of another hon. Gentleman not now a Member of the House (Mr. Massey). I do not propose to reply to the arguments of the hon. Member, as both his arguments and his conclusions were quite inaudible where I sat. I should, however, like to say a few words with reference to the extremely able speech of the noble Lord who has moved the Previous Question. The arguments of the noble Lord naturally fall under two heads; first, those which are proper to his Motion, which is a Motion for time; and secondly, those arguments which are not proper to the present Motion, but to another Motion, which, whatever may have been the noble Lord's inclination as evidenced by his speech, yet, sitting upon this side of the House, he seemed hardly to have the courage to move—namely,that the Bill be read a second time upon this day six months. I will first dwell upon those arguments—or rather I ought to say assertions—which are proper to his Motion. I The noble Lord said that this Bill ought not to be supported—in fact, that it ought never to have been introduced at all—because it has not been introduced by the Government. I might say, in reply, that when a similar proposal was introduced as part of the Bill of the noble Lord then Member for the City of London, as a Government measure, it did not receive the support of the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire. But how does he suggest that this question should be kept alive in Parliament if, when the Government is too weak or too supine to deal with the subject, independent Members are to be equally precluded from doing so?
 1414 1415 1416 "Under Vellum and Plumpkin we have become a great nation. Under Vellum and Plumpkin our ships have covered the ocean. Under Vellum and Plumpkin our armies have triumphed over the strength of the hills. To turn out Vellum and Plumpkin would be, not Reform, but Revolution." 1417 forte, "We know very well what takes place at a Parliamentary election in this country. The man of princely fortune has, when he goes to the poll, no more votes than the humbler dweller in a £10 house, because we know very well that his wealth, his station, and his character will give him an influence which will adequately represent his property, and the Constitution shrinks from a plurality of votes in such a case."—[ 3 Hansard, 1418 1419 1420 1421 1422
 MR. LOWE : Sir, in order that I may obtain and merit the indulgence of the House I shall endeavour to confine myself as much as possible to the exact question at issue in this debate, which is, as I apprehend it, whether it is desirable to extend the franchise in boroughs by lowering its pecuniary amount. That appears to me to be a sufficiently large question for a single speech, without touching any other part of the subject of Reform, because it involves the consideration whether it is or is not expedient, in the existing circumstances of this country, to make a further advance in the direction of democracy. I congratulate the hon. Member for Leeds on having to-day succeeded in enlisting the advocacy of the hon. Member for Huddersfield in favour of his one-barrelled Reform Bill, although I have no doubt that hon. Gentleman would have preferred to handle a revolver. I cannot, however, congratulate the hon. Member for Leeds on the arguments in support of his views which the hon. Member for Huddersfield has advanced. Let the House for a moment reflect upon what fell from him towards the close of his speech. He said that if this Bill were passed it would form an aristocracy among the working classes, which would be regarded by the remainder of those classes with jealousy and dislike. He reminded us of the agency which Trades' Unions afford ready to the hands of those who would be animated by this jealousy and dislike to enable them to extort from this House further reforms. Is the prospect he thus holds out to us satisfactory? Does he give us any hope that when this Bill has passed, we shall have settled anything, or does he not make it quite clear that we shall have unsettled everything? If I am to judge by this debate, no position is happier or easier than that of those Gentlemen who undertake to advocate the cause of democracy in the House of Commons. It is a task which seems to require the smallest amount of thought and least copious vocabulary of words. One hon. Gentleman says the working classes are "wrongfully" excluded from the exercise of the franchise; another describes their exclusion as "unjust;" a third looks upon them as being in consequence "degraded;" while a fourth speaks of them as being "slaves." So we go on until we have an accumulation of about a dozen such terms, by the use of which some hon. Gentlemen seem to think they have done sufficient to prove their case, and to throw the  onus probandi 1424 "Is it right, I ask, that in the face of such dispositions the present law of almost entire exclusion should prevail? Again, I call upon the adversary to show cause, and I venture to say that every man who is not presumably incapacitated by some consideration of personal unfitness or political danger is morally entitled to come within the pale of the Constitution." á priori á priori onus probandi á priori á priori á priori 1425 Anti-Jacobin 1426 "Many persons do not inquire if a State be well administered if the laws protect property and persons, if the people are happy. What they require, without giving attention to anything else, is political liberty—that is, the most equal distribution of political power. Wherever they do not see the form of Government to which they are attached, they see nothing but slavery, and if these pretended slaves are well satisfied with their condition, if they do not desire to change it, they despise and insult them. In their fanaticism they are always ready to stake all the happiness of a nation upon a civil war for the sake of transferring power into the hands of those whom an invincible ignorance will not permit to use it except for their own destruction." Principles of Morals and Legislation á priori 1427 ignava ratio, 1428 "He thought with a smile upon England the while, And the trick that her statesmen had taught her, Of saving herself from the storm above By putting her head under water." "How, then, are we to arrive at just conclusions on a subject so important to the happiness of mankind? Surely by that method which, in every experimental science in which it has been applied, has signally increased the power and knowledge of our species, by observing the present state of the world, by assiduously studying the history of past ages, by sifting the evidence of facts, by carefully combining and contrasting those which are authentic, by generalising with judgment and diffidence, by perpetually bringing the theory which we have constructed to the test of new facts, by correcting or altogether abandoning it, according as those new facts prove it to be partially or fundamentally unsound. Proceeding thus—patiently, diligently, candidly—we may hope to form a system as far inferior in pretension to that which we have been examining and as far superior to it in real utility as the prescriptions of a great physician, varying with every stage of every malady and with the constitution of every patient, to the pill of the advertizing quack which is to cure all human beings, in all climates, of all diseases." 1429 á priori onus probandi, á priori 1430 "Your petitioners complain that they are enormously taxed to pay the interest of what is called the National Debt, a debt amounting at present to £800,000,000, being only a portion of the enormous amount expended in cruel and expensive wars for the suppression of all liberty by men not authorized by the people, and who, consequently, had no right to tax posterity for the outrages committed by them upon mankind." "Your petitioners deeply deplore the existence of any kind of monopoly in this nation; and while they unequivocally condemn the levying of any tax upon the necessaries of life, and upon those articles principally required by the labouring classes, they are also sensible that the abolition of any one monopoly will never unshackle labour from its misery, until the people possess that power under which all monopoly and oppression must cease. And your petitioners respectfully mention the existing monopolies of the suffrage"—pointing, of course, to universal suffrage—"of paper money"—looking naturally to unlimited issues and greenbacks—"of machinery"—meaning property, because machinery is only one kind of property—"of land"—of course there could be no question about that—"of the public press"—such portion of it as was opposed to their views—"of religion, of the means of travelling and transit, and a host of other evils too numerous to mention, all arising from class legislation." "Evertere domos totos optantibus ipsis Di faciles." 1431 "The simple fact of these savings being effected, and of these houses being erected by the will of working men is an immensely significant one. All these owners of houses are freeholders, and every man has earned his own freehold from a desire to possess it. While in the same locality, employed at the same work and the same wages, and without any extraordinary drawback, a vast number of those who possess no such properties, live on from day to day, regardless of every enjoyment which is not sensual, exhibiting no desire for an elevation of character among their fellow men, wasting their money in profitless pursuits, or in degrading pastimes, and being for ever unprepared for the commonest vicissitudes which bring such misery in their train." d. 1432 £8 Quid superest de corporibus? 1433 prestige 1434 1435 1436 1437 1438 1439 1440
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE  proceeded, and said: Mr. Speaker, I think it highly natural that, after five hours' debate on a question which was once reckoned great and important, some Member of the Government should rise to answer the great, exhaustive, and philosophical speech that has just been delivered to this House—a speech, than which, however I may differ from its conclusions, I will venture to say, none, even at the time of the great debates on the Reform Bill, was ever surpassed in force or energy by any gentleman opposed to reform of any kind. I could have wished that our great leader—I am speaking of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—would have risen, for he is probably the only man in the House who is equal to the work of answering such a speech—I say I could have wished that at its close he had sprung to his feet instead of putting the  onus probandi 1441 1442 "That no re-adjustment of the franchise will satisfy this House or the country which does not provide for a greater extension of the suffrage in cities and boroughs than is contemplated in the present measure." "Deserted in its utmost need By those its former bounty fed," 1443 Non meus hic sermo. 1444 1445 £5
 MR. AYRTON  desired to observe that the debate must be adjourned, because the House had not heard the sentiments of the Government, and it was quite evident that a quarter of an hour (it was now half past five o'clock) would not suffice, as several Members of the Ministry might wish to speak on this question.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he quite agreed with his hon. Friend. The House
 1446
 SIR GEORGE GREY : A Member of the Government, though not a Member of the Cabinet, did rise ["Oh, oh!"]; but seeing the indisposition of the House to listen to him, I advised my hon. and learned Friend not to throw away his speech by attempting to force it on a reluctant House. ["Oh, oh!"] I am aware that several Members wish to address the House, and at the hour we have arrived at there is no alternative but to adjourn the debate. As to the day on which the debate should be resumed, if my hon. Friend the Mover of the Question will consent to name Friday I think it may be resumed on that day. ["No, no!"] But, in the absence of my noble Friend at the head of the Government, I can give no pledge with regard to the time. ["Oh, oh!"]
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think that the House, under the circumstances, has a right to require from Her Majesty's Government that they should give an early day for the renewal of this debate; and I am of that opinion for two reasons. In the first place, it is impossible for us to forget the circumstances connected with this question under which the present Government was formed. In the second place, I hold that it is the duty of the leader of this House to give the House an opportunity of continuing such a debate. Sir, the leader of the House is the trustee of the honour and interests of the House. He does not sit in his place for the mere purpose of transacting the business of the Government. He is, I repeat, the trustee of the interests and honour of
 1447 1448
 MR. BAINES : I beg to say that I understand that Friday is an evening on which this debate might be resumed. [ Cries of
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I spoke of Friday, because there is every prospect that the Motion which stands previous to Supply will occupy but a short time; and I told my hon. Friend if that were the case the Government would be willing to put this Question second. They could not put it first, because, according to the Standing Orders, Supply must stand first. ["To-morrow, to-morrow!"] The Government cannot give to-morrow, because that day has been fixed for the Resolutions on the Budget, and the public interest would suffer if their were postponed, therefore Friday is the earliest day. ["Monday!"] We shall now put it for Friday—["Monday !"]—and if we shall be unable on Friday to bring it on at an early hour, I shall communicate with my noble Friend at the head of the Government with a view to make arrangements for bringing it on as early as possible.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I beg to move that the debate be adjourned to Monday.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I think that this question ought not to be left in this undecided state. The House has a right to know on what day precisely the debate will be resumed. It certainly ought not to be left contingent upon the disposal at an early hour of desultory discussions and Motions that may or may not be brought forward. It appears to me that the best thing to do under present circumstances is to decide that the debate be adjourned
 1449 de die in diem.
 MR. GREGORY  said, it was impossible that the debate could come on on Friday, as he himself had a Motion fixed for that evening which he was determined to proceed with. It was, therefore, impossible that he could enter upon the subject matter of his Motion and to continue this debate at the same time.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  reminded the House that there was a Standing Order under which the Government had the arrangement of all the Orders for every day except Wednesday. If this debate be fixed for Monday it would be placed at the end of all the other Orders, and, therefore, could not come on until at a very late hour. If the right hon. Baronet would consult with the noble Viscount the leader of the House no doubt some more convenient arrangement would be effected. Let the adjourned debate then be fixed for Friday, and if it could not then be resumed they could fix another day on which it could be taken without fail. ["No, no!"]
 MR. DISRAELI : What the House can do is to come to an agreement that this question shall betaken on Monday; unquestionably the Government can arrange the business of the House as they think fit, but it does not follow that an Order of the Day, placed last upon the paper, must necessarily be delayed until all the previous Orders are disposed of. The right hon. Baronet will probably be enabled to-morrow to say whether the adjourned debate can be brought on first on Monday or at some other convenient time.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Let the House determine and let the Government give notice to rescind the Standing Order on Monday, in order that this question may have precedence. They frequently do this in respect of matters of special interest to themselves—why should they not take the same course as respects the adjourned debate?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The Government have no intention whatever to avail
 1450
 MR. BAINES : I think after the assurance given on the part of the Government, I ought to adhere to Friday. ["No, no!"]
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is well that we should understand the position we occupy. The financial Resolutions stand for to-morrow, and we have no reason to suppose that there will be any opposition, or that the discussion upon them will occupy any very great length of time; still we are entirely in the hands of the House, and notice has already been given of one Motion relating to those Resolutions. Now, suppose we do not get those financial Resolutions through tomorrow night, I am by no means prepared to say it would be our duty to surrender Monday for the disposal of this question. ["Monday!" "Friday!"]
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that he was glad that the Question of his hon. Friend gave him an opportunity of removing a misconception which was very wide-spread, and which had worked and was working much mischief in elementary schools. Although the payments on examination under the Revised Code were made on reading, writing, and arithmetic, it was not the object or the policy of that Code to interfere with the teaching of other elementary subjects, such as history, geography, or grammar, heretofore taught in the National schools. So far was this from being the case, that Instructions to Her Majesty's Inspectors were issued in September, 1862, very soon after the Code came into operation, in which this subject was thus noticed:—
 "The grant to be made to each school depends, as it has ever done, upon the school's whole character and work. The grant is offered for attendance in a school with which the Inspector is satisfied. If he is wholly dissatisfied (Article 50), and if the reasons of such dissatisfaction are confirmed
 1466 e
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in consequence of the Report of Mr. Baker, Inspector of Factories, as to the employment of children and young girls in the Clay Yards of South Staffordshire, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose the further extension of the Factories Act, or other legislation with reference thereto in the present Session, with a view to the prevention of the excessive labour and demoralizing scenes described in such Report?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the restoration and reparation of the Palace of Westminster had commenced more than twenty years ago, and the expenditure on the Crypt formed part of the general contract applicable to the whole building, and it was not possible after the lapse of so many years to distinguish what portion of the expenditure was particularly applied to the Crypt. There was one item, however, referring to it upon which, being a special contract, he could give some information, and that was with regard to the decorative painting and gilding; the whole cost of that work was only £630. ["Hear, hear!"] Hon. Members were doubtless surprised at the smallness of the sum, and it was right to state that the contract was very favourable to the Government, and the work he (Mr. Cowper) apprehended would cost the decorator more than he would receive from the Government. Mr. Crace, being a man of public spirit and faithful to the discharge of his duty, spared no expense or pains to make the decoration of the building worthy of it. The hon. Member also asked what use the Crypt would be put to. It was thought right upon public grounds that such an admirable specimen of the architecture of the 13th century should be restored and open to public exhibition, when the taste for architecture was so widely diffused, and when its cultivation was carried on so successfully in this country. It was not proposed to restore the Crypt to the exact use to which it was put in the time of King Stephen, when it was used as the only Chapel of the ancient Palace of Westminster, nor to the use to which it was put after its restoration at the end of the 13th century. He thought, however, that it would be very convenient to the persons resident within that building, and to many Members of that House and the public at large, if they had opportunities
 1469
 MR. T. G. BARING , in reply, said, the annual Turnpike Continuance Act continued, from year to year, all Turnpike Trusts whose Acts had expired, excepting such as were placed in the Schedule or in the body of that Act. Those placed in the Schedule were fixed to cease on the 1st of November of the ensuing year, in order to give Trustees notice and time enough to apply for the continuance of their Trusts by new private Acts of Parliament. Trusts placed in the body of the Continuance Act were those which, having been placed in the Schedule the year before, had not been renewed by private Acts or made arrangements satisfactory to the Home Office. Those Trusts were fixed to cease on the 1st of November of the current year. His right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) stated early in the Session that as a general principle it was deemed right that Trusts free from debt should be excluded from the operation of the Continuance Act. It was not proposed to deal with all such Trusts at once; but, speaking generally, only with those against which complaints had been made. Trusts to be dealt with this year would be put in the Schedule of the Continuance Act in the usual way, so as to cease on the 1st of November, 1866. Ample time would thus be given to them to wind up their affairs, make representations to the Home Office, or apply to Parliament for new Acts.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that he had been selected by the great and important branch of commerce which was affected by the alteration in the tea duty, to bring its grievance under the notice of the House, partly because he had for the last twenty-
 1472 s. d. "The Committee will understand that if the proposal to reduce the duty on tea to 1 s. 1473 d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. 1474 d. s. d. "What is the consequence of the course that has been taken with respect to the tea duty? Why, in the first place, a distinct promise was given to the parties engaged in the trade, and I confess that think it a most serious evil that that promise should be broken. It is all very well to come down to the House and say that, whether you grant a remission of the duty on tea or not, no loss will fall on the dealer. I think nothing could be more harsh—I will not say dishonest—than such a statement."—[3 Hansard, "It is most unjust and impolitic to break faith with the dealer, and to defend the non-performance of your promise to him by the allegation that the loss will fall on the consumer and not on him." "That the House will not be led by any such narrow policy, to exult in the gains that are to be got out of the dealers by a disappointment of the expectations they have been led to entertain." 1475 "It is expedient to give as long a notice in regard to these duties as is possible, because a short notice is always embarrassing and disadvantageous to merchants and dealers."
 MR. CAVE , in seconding the Amend-mend, did not go quite so far as the hon. Member for Honiton. He thought that as a general rule all trades must be liable to the chances of a change of duties. When duties were suddenly raised those who possessed large stocks in bond complained, and when they were lowered the complaint came from those who had large stocks duty paid. When the tea duty was last lowered, in 1863, the same number of days only elapsed before the law took effect as on this occasion, and he thought the Chancellor's answer to the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford on that occasion was conclusive. He had, therefore, declined accompanying the deputation the other day; but on looking more carefully into the question, in consequence of the Motion of the hon. Member for Honiton, he had been surprised to see how much ground had been given to the objectors by the Chancellor himself, and it was upon this ground alone that he supported the Amendment. The hon. Member had gone fully into the question; but he would take the liberty of reading again the exact words of the Chancellor in the debate on the Budget on the 16th of April, 1863—
 "The Committee need not apprehend that the proposal thus to fix the duty upon tea only for a limited period (that was for a year only) will have any disturbing or unsettling effect, for it is thoroughly understood by the trade and by the country that when the tea duty shall be reduced to 1s. per pound the reduction will be, so far as we may presume to look forward into the future, a final measure."—[3  Hansard, "The 1 s. 1476 "I think it would be good policy, even if we are to put it on no other ground than the furtherance of the great change adopted last year, to make a reduction upon that (namely, the licence) duty."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have nothing to complain of in the speech of my hon. Friend (Mr. Moffatt) except to say that the extracts which he has quoted from my speech in 1856 are entirely irrelevant to the matter in hand. The words are perhaps stronger than I
 1477 1478 pro hâc vice 1479 primâ facie, 1480 d. 6d. 1481 "It will be most convenient to renew the tea duty only until August, 186i. The Committee need not apprehend that the proposal thus to fix the duty upon tea only for a limited period will have any disturbing or unsettling effect; for it is thoroughly understood by the trade and by the country that when the tea duty shall be reduced to 1s. per lb. the reduction will be, so far as we may presume to look forward into the future, a final measure."—[3  Hansard, 1482 "In consideration of the expectation specially founded upon the declaration of Her Majesty's Government in 1863, in respect of the tea duty, the said reduction shall be postponed till the 1st day of June, 1865."
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that he had to express his thanks to the right hon. Gentleman for having given way upon that point. He could state that certain dealers not far from St. Paul's Churchyard had expended large sums in erecting warehouses and laying in considerable stocks of tea, and if the duty had been at once reduced they would probably have lost not less than £1,000. He thanked the right hon. Gentleman for the course he had taken, and complimented him upon the very ingenious manner in which he had escaped defeat.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the rigid rules of action adopted in the case of the French Treaty had inflicted the severest loss upon both his constituents and those of the hon Member for Coventry. He expressed his thanks to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for not having opposed the House in the expression of its opinion, and for adopting a plan which would relieve a very large class of dealers from severe loss. The money they would have been deprived of would merely have been put into the pockets of the large holders of tea in bond. He was glad to see that the House had resumed its proper place in this matter, as, without its sanction, the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not have done that which he believed to be an act of justice.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the question in reference to the tea duty was now happily settled, although upon somewhat peculiar grounds. He agreed with the general principle which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had laid down as to the inconvenience of and want of precedent for postponing the reduction of the duty, but the House could hardly have taken a different course, considering the special grounds laid before it. He seized the
 1483 "If the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade was just in stating the malt duty to be 12½ per cent upon beer for the purpose of comparison, for the sake of argument,"—a very curious distinction—"he would take it at 20 per cent upon the barrel less probably 1 or 2 per cent for the licences, and that to reduce beer, 'that was porter,' one farthing per pot, it would be necessary to reduce the duty on malt to 1 s. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I said it would be necessary to reduce the duty on malt to 1 s. d.
 MR. HENLEY : That was to say of the duty of 2 s d. s. d. s. s. s. d. 1484 s. s. s. d., s. d. s, d.,
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he could not help taking that opportunity of expressing his cordial thanks to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the concession he had made on behalf of the people. He felt it would be most gratefully received by the tea dealers throughout the country.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that he begged to be allowed to make a very few observations in addition to the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) to which he must call the serious attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had not felt the other night at liberty to controvert the statements of the right hon. Gentleman himself, or question the authority of the Department of Inland Revenue—at least, without further information on the subject. It seemed now that "finality" must no longer be attributed to the right hon. Gentleman's proposals, and he must say he heard that admission with great satisfaction, when he remembered that on the occasion to which he referred the right hon. Gentleman, in clear and explicit terms, declared that the extinction of the malt duty would be the death warrant of indirect taxation. He
 1485 s. s. s. s. s. d., 1486 1487 s., s. s. d., 1488 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. s. d. d.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he did not share in the astonishment which some Members had expressed that the agricultural body should have been ignored completely in the present Budget. The reception which the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave to the deputation of agriculturists a short time ago showed him that they had no chance of redress. Last year a deputa-
 1489
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  would refer to the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) and the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), which were of a practical character, rather than to the vague and somewhat harsh imputation of the gallant Colonel who had just sat down. The hon. and learned Gentleman had quoted from his speech his statement that as he understood the proposal for the reduction of the malt duty that reduction would be the death-warrant to indirect
 1490 d. 1491 1492 s. d. s. d.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that that was the only way in which he could account for it, taking the right hon. Gentleman's statement of 20 per cent.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that would not be the case. The statement of 20 per cent referred entirely to the price of beer sold by the barrel, and not sold by the pint or quart; but he did not see how the taking off 1 s. d. d. s. d., d. 1493 s. d. d.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he should be glad to know from the right hon. Gentleman, how two bushels of malt, at 2 s. d. s. d., s. s. d., s. s. d., d. s. d., d., s. d. s. s. d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he proceeded on two different principles, according to the operation he had in hand. When he was calculating the loss to the revenue from any given measure, he proceeded on the strictest possible considerations; but when bespoke of 20 per cent he did not proceed with the same rigour. He stated that the 12½ per cent spoken of by the President of the Board of Trade was perfectly just for his purpose, if not, indeed, absolutely just; but taking a liberal view of all the elements, and putting everything in the position most favourable to his opponents, he would put the tax at 20 per cent. The 20 per cent, however, was made up of the tax on malt, together with the addition of the tax on hops and the brewer's licence. The figure of 1 s. d.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman's statement amounted now to this—that to produce a reduction of a certain
 1494
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he was afraid that he must be added to the number of those who took exception to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman proposed the other day to relieve the heavy barley lands by levying the duty by weight instead of by measure. The Chancellor of the Exchequer laboured under a complete misconception as to the result of this proposal. The barleys obtained from the heavy soils were heavier than those obtained from the barley, generally used for malting, by two or three pounds a bushel, and were of less value by 2 s. s. 1495 in formâ pauperis,
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, the agriculturists were not entirely ignored in the Budget, but were glad to have the duty of 2 d. d.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the last speaker had been speaking less for East Sussex, where his property was situated, than for Westminster, where he hoped to be re-elected at the next dissolution. Had the hon. Baronet recently canvassed East Sussex, he would have found very little division of opinion on the subject of the malt tax. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer made rather a strange assertion in his Budget speech, when he stated that the experiments with regard to the feeding of cattle on malt had been quite conclusive. The right hon. Gentleman said that experience had settled the question, and that it was found that malt was practically useless for that purpose. He (Colonel Barttelot) said the experiments
 1496 versus Journal of the Farmers' Club, 1497
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he considered that the agriculturists had been very hardly treated. The present Government owed their accession to power a good deal to the assistance given by agriculturists, which would perhaps be remembered when their assistance was again required. He did not think that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had acted rightly in respect of the malt tax. While the duties on every other species of industry had been either diminished or altogether removed, nothing whatever had been done in respect of the manufacture of malt. The right hon. Gentleman had gone into calculations to show how little the reduction of the duty would do in lowering the price of beer, but he did not seem to have taken into account the additional profit which the dealers in beer put on that article in consequence of the existence of the malt duty. The right hon. Gentleman said it would be something like an injustice to Scotland and Ireland to reduce that duty; hut, he had often when in Germany thought how preferable it would be to see the people of Ireland and Scotland in fairs consuming the foaming tankards of pure beer, such as they had in Munich and Vienna, rather than the raw spirits now consumed in such quantities by the people of Ireland and Scotland at such festivities. The slovenliness of agriculture had been often complained of, and the Irish had been told to contrast the neat farming of Belgium with theirs; but it was the general custom of the larger farms in Belgium to have their own malting kiln, and where they were not large enough to support one, two or three farms joined together for that purpose. He believed that if the malt tax were repealed something of the same kind would take place in England, and he, for one, would rejoice to see it.
 MR. DUTTON  said, that so far from there being the diversity of opinion referred to by the hon. Baronet the Member for Westminster (Sir John Shelley), there never was a question on which the farmers were so united as their opposition to the malt tax. He should support such repeal on the pure principles of free trade whenever the question came before them. The consumption of beer had proved to be stationary a3 compared with the progress of the population, and he asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer if such a state of things was satisfactory to him. He believed that a remission of a portion of the duty would be a great advantage to the Exchequer and to the community at large, and especially to agricultural labourers, who it was notorious could scarcely ever, except on high days and holidays, obtain beer from one end of the year to the other.
 MR. LAWSON  said, he wished to say a word in favour of tea as against beer. They were not to argue the question as to what was beneficial to a particular class, but what would be the most beneficial to all. The grain of the debate had been pretty well thrashed out. He was not going to discuss the question whether it was desirable to reduce the duty on account of the food of cattle, but whether a reduction of the duty would conduce to the good of man. One of the arguments of the repealers was that by reducing the duty we should promote public sobriety by enabling men to drink their beer at home with their families instead of in the beer shop; but he could not understand how cheapening the material of the beer could have that effect. The beer-seller would increase his trade, or sell stronger beer; and he did not see how stronger beer was likely to produce sobriety. The fact was, that a reduction of the duty would be mischievous. It would enable the beer-sellers to offer greater temptations to the people at a cheaper cost. He believed that there was a desire on both sides of the House to do what they believed to be in the interest of the working man; but what he wished to point out was, that they sometimes, with the best intentions, made great mistakes. The working man was not allowed in that House any means of expressing his opinion, his wants, or his wishes. There was a very striking instance of the mistake they made in their well-meant endeavours to benefit the working classes. He alluded to the Beer Bill,
 1499 1500
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then proposed to amend the Resolution by omitting the words "on and after the 6th of May, 1865," and adding the words, "provided that on special grounds the said reduction shall not take effect until the 1st day of June, 1865."
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Committee to the position in which the income tax now stood. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in proposing the reduction of 2 d. 1502 1503
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to an alteration of the time at which the reduction of the duty should come into effect. Great inconvenience would arise to the Scotch insurance offices from the time proposed in the Resolution, and, as no considerable loss could accrue to the revenue from the alteration which he was about to propose, he trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would show the same consideration in this case which he had done in a former instance. The 25th of June was the time at which most of the policies were effected in England; but in Scotland the 15th of May was the great period for effecting insurances and renewing policies. That being so, if the scale of duties were to commence on the 25th of June, the Scotch Companies would be put to the inconvenience either of issuing a receipt for the period between the 15th of May and the 25th of June, or of proceeding on the double scale of duties. No injustice would be done by taking the 15th of May as the date for the whole kingdom, because the duties upon policies of fire insurance effected during the pre-
 1505
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he would have been very glad to carry throughout the evening the accommodating character which he appeared to have acquired; but it was not in his power to accede to the Amendment, for several reasons. In the first place, the narrow surplus mentioned in the Financial Statement had been still further reduced by the Vote of the House that night, and it would be most unwise to incure any further diminution. Secondly, the proposal of the hon. Baronet would be retrospective legislation of a kind that was entirely without precedent. It was perfectly certain that the Bill could not become law until after the 15th of May, and therefore to fix that day would be an innovation of a serious character only to be justified by the gravest reasons. Lastly, he could not accede to the argument founded upon inconvenience. Unfortunately, they had different quarter days in England and Scotland, and those of England had been adopted in the Bill as the most appropriate. He was sorry any inconvenience should be felt in Scotland, but Scotch transactions being in a very small minority, it would have been a great mistake to have adopted the Scotch date in preference to the English.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that he wished to ask a question with regard to the operation of the Resolution. He understood that all who had paid their insurances on the 25th of March, which was the quarter-day on which insurances were
 1506 s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, with regard to the question of the hon. Gentleman and other similar ones which might arise, he wished to observe that the Government proposed to go on precisely as they had done last year, and if they were to depart from the regulations then made it was quite evident that they would raise a crop of questions not only belonging to the present Session, but, retrospectively, questions which had been settled last year which would involve them in great difficulties. The two proceedings were connected by so many links that they must be regarded as parts of one transaction. No allowance was made last year for payments in advance for more than a year, and he proposed to follow the same course this year. With regard to the other question, he was a little at variance with the hon. Member in his idea of the fact. He was very doubtful whether there were any cases of payments in advance falling in the period of the reduced duty, where the money had already found its way into the hands of the Government. If the hon. Member was as conversant with the practice of insurance companies as to paying their duties as he was with the general bearing of the question of fire insurance, he would find that the payments of duty were mostly considerably in arrears. The money, then, in such cases as he described, would be in the hands of the companies, and would form a matter of account in settling with them. At the same time, if any
 1507
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he regarded the remission in the Fire Insurance Duty as very gratifying to the House and the country. The hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. Sheridan) was, he thought, rather unreasonable the other evening when he expressed his disappointment at the extent of the reduction. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken the Resolution of the House, proposed by the hon. Member himself, as his rule and guide, and had obeyed it literally. There was, therefore, in his opinion, no ground of complaint against the right hon. Gentleman. It was further to be remembered that, taken in connection with the other remissions of taxation, the Chancellor of the Exchequer left himself no margin for a larger reduction of Fire Insurance Duty. From the terms, however, in which he communicated his intention, the House was justified in the certain expectation that before very long the whole of the Fire Insurance Duty would be removed. It had been stated that the lower duty would recoup itself by the impetus it would give to the practice of insuring. He, for one, had never used that argument. He denied the propriety of keeping any duty whatever on Fire Insurance, and he accepted the definition of the tax by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as decisive. The right hon. Gentleman said the duty had been called a tax upon prudence, but he gave a more correct and more telling definition. He described it as a tax upon property with two large exemptions—an exemption to the imprudent and to men of large property. Accepting that definition, he (Mr. Hubbard) regarded a Fire Insurance Duty of 1 s., d., d. d. s. s. s. 1508 d. s.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not seen his way to a more considerable reduction of the Fire Insurance Duty. The objection to such a duty was threefold. It was a tax on prudence, on property of a particular kind that was exposed to risk by fire, and a restraint on a branch of legitimate trade, capital, and enterprise. The tax pressed very heavily on the class of small houses which, if sold, would bring only from ten to fifteen years' purchase, but which were burdened by heavy local imposts in the nature of poor rates, property tax, charges for management, and the risk of loss from failure to pay rent. In the borough he had the honour to represent there was a great variety of opinions upon political subjects, but every man was of the same mind as to the impropriety of this tax, which was a blot upon our financial system. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would, before long, see his way to the entire removal of the tax on fire insurances from our fiscal system.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that duties paid to insurance companies
 1509
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the practice was, when a person insured to carry on the fraction of a quarter, if there were one, to the next quarter-day, and generally the policies would run twelve months from that quarter-day. The insurances of the four quarter days were separately dealt with, but were not paid at once into the Exchequer. The companies had a certain time allowed them. Practically, the companies were always a quarter in arrear at the Exchequer; but they paid on each quarter-day for all the yearly policies renewed or effected.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the wealthier classes of the country were extremely astute in finding reasons to escape from the operation of particular taxes, but he did not find that they were equally on the alert to suggest modes by which other and more equitable taxes might be substituted for those withdrawn, to which they could themselves make an equitable contribution. The Fire Insurance Duty had been denounced upon every moral and political ground, but he had never heard in these debates a suggestion as to how the Chancellor of the Exchequer was to reach the richest classes, to whom the remission would be a great gain. No doubt the attempt to reach property through the medium of the Fire Insurance Duty had been attended with injurious effects; but originally the tax was one of the most constitutional ever imposed. In very early times taxation was placed upon all visible property—not, as some politicians imagined, upon land merely, but on all kinds of visible property. In course of time, no doubt, the land was solely charged, but it was because it was the most obvious source of revenue, visible property of other kinds finding means to escape its proper share of contribution. It was in order to reach the property which thus withdrew itself from taxation, and from being visible became invisible, that the device of a duty upon insurance was first adopted. No better evidence of wealth could be afforded than when a man collected in his house a large amount of unproductive property—not only tarnishing his residence sumptuously, but accumulating and surrounding himself with works of art. Manifestly, such a man could well afford to contribute to the public burdens. Some centuries
 1510 1511
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, that in order to do what the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) required, it would be necessary to go a step further and compel every one to insure, to get at what he called the unproductive property of the country. He thought it would have been much better if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had reduced the duty to 1s. than to 1 s. d., s. d.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he was at a loss to understand why the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets had called it unproductive property because it was not insured, and so far from its not being taxed, he begged to state that it was taxed both for national and local purposes. Insurance was not a question between rich and poor. If a man's house were burnt down, it was a State loss, inasmuch as the payment, and the security for the payment, of a certain amount of rates and taxes were both lost to the State. The tax upon insurance was no more a tax upon property than a bet on the Derby was a tax upon property. Insurance meant nothing more than this—the owner bet the office 1 s. d. s. d.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he thought
 1512 s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, they were not.
 MR. PEEL  said, the object of the Bill was simply to enable the Commissioners of Woods and Forests to pay out of the capital of the land revenue a sum of £2,500 towards a fund to which the commoners of the island would contribute an equal amount. That fund was to be applied to compensate parties who claimed to have a portion of the forest allotted to them in severalty, in the event of those claims being found to be well founded at the re-hearing which would take place under the Act lately passed by the Legislature of the Isle of Man.
 MR. PEEL  said, the claims rejected on the first occasion would be re-heard by one of the Commissioners, and if any of the claims were allowed compensation would be given, not in land—as some of the lands had been sold—but in money. The boundaries of these waste lands had been accurately defined, and a very liberal arrangement had been made as to the rights of the commoners. The hon. Gentleman had made no objection to the disafforestation of these lands, and the feeling in the Isle of Man was in favour of it. He did not think that a Select Committee of that House was the tribunal best fitted to judge of the matter, and he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not persist in his Motion.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he believed that since the world began there had never been a more cruel Government than that of Cromwell in Ireland. He might refer to the massacres of Drogheda and of Wexford in proof of that statement. Those massacres had hardly ever been paralleled, and the government of Cromwell in Ireland could only be regarded as an unmitigated evil.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, there was not any provision made by the Bill for the payment of the debts due by the roads. The Bill seemed to be one to authorize the discontinuance of the payment of debts. He did not think there was any possibility to frame a Bill that could carry out these objects.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped there would be no objection to the introduction of the Bill.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he believed his hon. Friend the Member for Clonmel must be mistaken in reference to the Return from which he had quoted. It appeared to him that the distribution of the force proposed in the Bill was better than that which at present existed.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the salaries of the Colonial Governors had been fixed at a high standard, because they had not pensions, and he was astonished to find they were new about to receive them. He hoped the proposition did not include India.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that various inhabitants of the island had been wrongfully deprived of their rights. The waste lands were not a forest at all, and they ought to have been dealt with in a manner analogous to the course pursued with regard to inclosures. It had been customary to hold portions of land which were called "intacks," and which were clothed with all the incidents of personal property; but the Commissioners, being all English lawyers, thought that these intacks did not constitute a right, because they were unfenced, and the land was warned back into the forest. Some persons who had obtained an inkling of what was about to take place contrived to secure their rights by running up a slight fence, while others who did not obtain that information were deprived of long established rights. He hoped the Government would allow the whole subject to be fully inquired into, more especially as the parties who claimed this property had no one in the House to represent them. What he had hoped was, that the hon. Gentleman the Secretary to the Treasury would have agreed to refer the whole question to the Select Committee at present sitting on Epping Forest and the open spaces round the metropolis. But, as this had not been done, he should move that the order for the third reading be discharged, and the Bill referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked if this re-hearing would enable the parties to re-establish their claims to the rights of which they had been deprived, or would it only entitle them to compensation?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What sum has been expended upon the Crypt connected with this House, under what heading of the Estimates this sum was voted, and to what use or purpose it is intended to apply the Crypt as now embellished?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that the salaries of the Colonial Governors were, with very few exceptions, paid by the colonies. But the Colonial Governors were partly servants of the colony and partly of the Imperial Government, and their Imperial duties were as important as their colonial duties. The Government, therefore, thought that the pensions should be paid by the Imperial Government. There were, moreover, difficulties, almost amounting to impossibilities, in the way of charging these pensions upon the colonies, because the Governors were frequently transferred from one colony to another after short periods of service, and it would be found impossible to frame a scheme under which the colonies could he made to contribute to a common fund for the purpose of defraying those pensions.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman would not alarm himself about the magnitude of the expense which the mea-
 1518
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I wish, Sir, to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it has come under his observation that one particular morning paper was enabled to publish the substance of his intended Budget on the morning before its communication to this House, and whether it is in accordance with his intention that such anticipation of his Financial Statement should take Place?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the Bill would have no reference to our Indian possessions. It only applied to the colonies in the usual sense of the word.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he should preface with a very few remarks the Bill he now asked permission to introduce. The subject had already been brought more than once under the consideration of the House by different hon. Gentlemen who took an interest in the subject. He thought it would be generally admitted that the position of Colonial Governors was a most responsible one, and that the gentlemen who filled it ought not to be called on to exercise parsimonious savings with a view to make provision for their declining years. It was also one in which the holders had no claim for consecutive employment. According to the rule laid down by Mr. Huskisson, their employment terminated at a given period, it was uncertain and could not always be immediately renewed. It was, therefore, felt desirable that some provision should be made in the nature of a pension for those who had held this particular office. This class presented the single exception to the rule of retiring pensions. Throughout the Civil Service such a provision was made. In the diplomatic service there was the same provision. Even those engaged in the political service of the country had some provision in the shape of pensions. It appeared right,
 1515 1516 guasi- 1517
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was sure the hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Vansittart), when he found that his statement with reference to the tendency of the Colonial Governors to speculation was incorrect, would regret that he had made a statement which was calculated to produce a painful impression on those to whom it referred. The hon. Member was mistaken in one point, because he (Mr. Cardwell) had distinctly stated that the pensions would be regulated by the length of service. As to the amount, the usual mode of calculating pensions was with reference to the salary.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he had to complain that the police force in Roscommon was to be reduced from 347 to 337 men. There was the less reason for such a change inasmuch as by the Act passed a few years ago the force in that county had been reduced from 437 men to 347: and the county had at present an additional body of fifty men to maintain at its own cost.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to know when the debate on the Union Chargeability Bill was to be resumed. He understood that that Bill was the first on the Orders for Monday, but the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman would have the effect of throwing all the arrangements into a state of uncertainty.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he intends in the Continuance Act for this year to Schedule for discontinuance all Turnpike Trusts that are out of debt; and, if not, under what special circumstances and upon whose representation will exceptions be made; and whether it is intended to continue in force till November 1866, in accordance with the usual practice in Continuance Acts, all the Trusts which are to be included in the Schedule to this year's Act, so as to give time for representations to be made to the Home Office?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, there could be no doubt that under Oliver Cromwell's rule "the condition of Ireland" problem had been to a great degree solved, and that the prosperity of Ireland had attained a wonderful development. At no period had Ireland been more prosperous and happy, and his policy showed the true spirit in which that country should be governed. He hoped, therefore, that it was not without consideration that the Government had consented to the repeal of this Act, which was an ancient relic of that system.
 LORD PROBY , the Controller of the Household, brought up the Queen's answer to the Address voted by the House—
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If the allowance paid to the Fire Insurance Companies of the United Kingdom, for collecting the existing Duty, is to be abolished; and, if not, whether the present rate of allowance is to be revised, with a view of altering the same to meet the reduction of duty proposed by the Government?
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that the effect of the Bill would be entirely to change the allocation of the police force as fixed by the Act 20 & 21  Vict. 1513
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that the Government Returns gave the number of policemen in Tipperary at 1,032, while the number was set down in the Bill at 784; and it therefore appeared that there was to be in that case a reduction of 248 men.
 MR. BLAKE  said, it was not very long since a man had been sentenced to seven years' transportation at the Cork assizes because he happened to call begging at a stipendiary magistrate's. He thanked the hon. Gentleman for moving to repeal this Act, and he hoped some hon. Gentleman would undertake the task of endeavouring to prevent criminal justice being administered in Ireland in the present harsh and oppressive manner.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would explain the object of the measure. Within the last few months in Ireland one of Her Majesty's Judges, Baron Hughes, had sentenced a man for the offence of vagrancy to seven years' penal servitude. The Judge said that the poor man having been presented by the grand jury under a penal law, and having been convicted of begging, he had no option but to sentence him to penal servitude, and the man was sentenced accordingly. That took place under the 6th of Queen Anne, c. 11, being an Act for the suppression of Tories, Robbers, and
 1522 "Wednesday, June 10, 1657.—On the Motion of Mr. Downing for a three years' assessment on Ireland, Major Morgan said—'We have three beasts to destroy that lay burdens on us—1st is a public Tory, on whose bead we lay £200, and £40 upon a private Tory's. 2nd beast is a priest, on whose head we lay £10; if he be eminent, more. 3rd beast, the wolf, on whom we lay £5 a head if a dog; £10 if a bitch." "Any person may be presented by the grand jury as a Tory, and if such person does not render himself to the justices within the county, he shall be proclaimed by the Lord Deputy, or other chief governor of Ireland, and shall thenceforth be convicted of high treason, and suffer accordingly." 1523
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland a Question with reference to the Dublin Exhibition. He might state, by way of explanation, that the programme of the music to be performed at the opening of the Exhibition had been submitted to Lord Wodehouse for his sanction. Me understood Lord Wodehouse had struck out several pieces of music, and the programme as it now stood did not contain one Irish piece. He would venture to ask the right hon. Baronet, Whether it is a fact that the arrangements for the opening of the Dublin Exhibition were submitted to the Lord Lieutenant for his approval; and, whether his Excellency has sanctioned a programme from which Irish music has been excluded?
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would repeat one part of his Question—whether the programme had been submitted to Lord Wodehouse for approval. He also desired to know whether the right hon. Baronet had ever heard that Handel himself had said that he would rather be the composer of a certain Irish melody than of any of his own works?
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, he had also received complaints of possible injustice. He suggested that a clause should be inserted, that if the parties on a re-hearing established their right to the land, it should be restored to them. If that were done he had no objection to vote for the third reading.
 MR. DILLWYN  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MARSH  said, he did not anticipate any heavy charge from this measure. His hon. Friend (Mr. Vansittart) had referred to Sierra Leone, but it was evident that if any Governor remained long in that colony he would not require any pension.
 MR. MARSH  said, up to a recent period the Governors of colonies generally received valuable perquisites in addition to their salaries, but these had been all abolished. He thought the time had arrived when pensions ought to be granted to them. Indeed, he wondered it had not been done before.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he had to suggest the propriety of postponing the consideration of the proposed measure until next Session, when much might be done in the way of abolishing many of the Colonial Governorships—especially those in the West India Islands—which wore utterly useless. He believed the colonies were far better able to provide pensions for their Governors than we were.
 MR. HANBURY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has received a Memorial from the Court of Common Council of the City, requesting his sanction to the removal of Executions from Newgate to within the walls of the City Prison in Camden Road?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, it was proposed that the allowance to the Fire Insurance Companies, in the shape of a percentage upon the duties collected by them, should
 1468
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, before I answer the Question of the hon. Member perhaps he will allow me to apologize to him for not having been in my place on Tuesday evening to give him a reply. But the fact is, I was otherwise closely engaged. I was occupied with an army of deputations, headed by Members of Parliament, from which I could not escape. With regard to the first part of the Question of the hon. Member, it did come under my observation that one particular morning paper was enabled to publish the substance of
 1467
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he believed it to be a mistaken principle to regulate the pensions by the amount of salaries received by the Governors. The promotion of Colonial Governors was the result of interest, and while one man with interest might receive a large salary in a mild and healthy climate, another without the necessary means of obtaining promotion would be sent to spend years in a place like Sierra Leone, which was a perfect Golgotha. He believed that the right hon. Gentleman's predecessor had complained to the House of the difficulty under which he laboured in procuring a Governor for the colony. And yet the salary of the latter Governor might be much less than that of the former. They were, in point of fact, not going to regulate the pensions by the length of time which the Governors had been in the public service, but by the amount they had received as salaries. He might mention, in answer to the hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh) that the lieutenant-governors and the Governors in the Indian service were not allowed to trade in any way whatever. They were strictly prohibited from speculating, buying land, taking shares in public companies, or mixing themselves in any public concern, but this was not the case in the colonies, where the Governors, the secretaries, and the clerks oftentimes engaged in speculation. In fixing, therefore, the pension of Colonial Governors, no reference ought to be made to Indian Governors, because they stood on a wholly different footing. He did not say this in disparagement of the claims of our colonial governors, but simply in reply to the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Salisbury. His sole object in rising was to ask the right hon. Gentleman to reconsider the matter, and to regulate the pensions by the periods of service.
 MR. BAINES  said, he believed that the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman would be the most convenient and acceptable one to the feelings of the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, with refer-
 1470
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was true that the Union Chargeability Bill was fixed for Monday, but it appeared to be the wish of the House that the debate on the Borough Franchise Bill should be resumed as early as possible.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that an inquiry was now in progress about work in Clay Yards, but it was not yet completed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that no such memorial had been received, nor was it likely that it should, as it was not in the power of the Secretary of State under the existing law to comply with any such requests.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he wished to ask what proportion of the payment of the pensions would fall upon the colonists themselves. If not any, he thought the pensions should be regulated according to the amount of salaries paid by this country.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that as the question before the House related only to the introduction of a measure for giving pensions to Colonial Governors, he would confine himself to expressing the great satisfaction which he felt at the course adopted on this occasion by Her Majesty's Government.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Bill would only take 130 men from all the Irish counties, and it was manifest therefore that it would not remove 248 men from Tipperary.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he possessed no official knowledge upon the subject. He believed, however, that the programme was settled by the Dublin Exhibition Committee, which was composed of Irish gentlemen. He understood that compositions of Mozart and Handel were to be sung by 1,000 voices, and it was perhaps
 1471
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he believed that the programme was submitted to the Lord Lieutenant, but of course he had no voice in the matter. He believed that it was also submitted to the Prince of Wales.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had made a full statement of the provisions of the Bill the other evening. The object of the Bill was to provide for the establishment in Belfast of a police force which would not be under the control of the municipal authorities. Recent events had proved the necessity of such a measure, recommended, as it had been, by the Report of the Commissioners specially appointed to investigate the subject, and he believed it met with general approval. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), who was unable to be present upon that occasion, had assured him that he had no opposition to offer to the Motion for the second reading of the Bill. It was proposed that 130 of the police force already in Ireland should be stationed in Belfast, and of that number fifty-nine would be taken from the county of Antrim, and fourteen from the county of Down; but the fact was, that as Belfast occupied portions of each of these two counties, they already supplied it with those men. The remainder of the 130 men would be taken from various counties; but he had to inform the hon. Member for Limerick and the hon. Member for Clonmel that there would be none removed from Limerick or Tipperary. He hoped the House would then assent to the second reading of the Bill, and they could afterwards consider its details in Committee. He proposed to introduce in the fourth clause an Amendment, which would leave undetermined the number of men to be added to the 130 at Belfast, so that the Lord Lieutenant could exercise a discretion in the matter. He would only further observe, that the present police force in Ireland had been established to meet the requirements of a
 1514
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether an Inspector is justified in threatening to recommend that one-tenth of the Grant earned by a School in respect of the proficiency of the Children in reading, writing, and arithmetic should be withheld in case grammar, history, or geography are not taught therein?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that in laying a Minute of the Council of Education upon the table of the House, it might be convenient if he made a short explanatory statement. The House was aware that at the time when the Revised Code was passed, no change was made with respect to endowments. The result was that if an endowment did not provide more than 30 s. 1536 s. s.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he had no desire to enter into any explanation contrary to the wish of the House, but if he did not do so, the only course which remained open to him was to lay the Minute on the table of the House without any explanation whatever, and to leave to some other hon. Member the task of raising a debate upon it at some other time. He had adopted the course which he was now pursuing because he was informed by the authorities that it was not competent for him to place the notice upon the Orders of the Day. If it was not the wish of the House that he should proceed with his statement, he had no desire to do so. His only object was to give to the House that information which was often not sufficiently afforded by the Minutes themselves. By the present Minute it
 1537
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that he had no desire to proceed with his statement unless such a course were unanimously approved by the House. He should, therefore, content himself with laying the Minute upon the table.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was glad to find that the hon. Member who had just spoken had taken a comprehensive survey of the principles upon which our national collections of art and natural history should be dealt with. He trusted the question would now meet with the earnest attention of the House, and that the tendency to witticisms and levity which had so often characterized the discussion of the subject would be laid aside, and that the House would assist the Government in their endeavour to give ample accommodation to our art collections. He was sure the
 1548 1549 1550 1551
 LORD NAAS  said, that considerable interest was felt in Ireland with regard to this matter. It was doubtless well known that the Curragh, which was a large open space many miles in extent, had been used from time immemorial by the public for various purposes, sometimes military, sometimes agricultural or pastoral. A large portion of it also had been used for the racing. It was impossible to define exactly the rights of the Crown over this extensive plain; in fact, he believed that hardly any Member would venture to offer a confident opinion upon the subject. In years past the Crown seemed to have the power to give charters to certain individuals as to liberty of pasturage. Other rights had doubtless been exercised by the Crown; and of late years rights had been exercised to a considerable extent in the way of granting leases for small portions of the Curragh for various purposes. A notable instance of this had occurred lately in the plain having been taken possession of by Government for a camp and for rifle ranges in connection with it. They would find, on the other hand, that there were extensive public rights in connection with the Curragh; that rights of pasturage were claimed by certain corporate towns in Ireland; that in some Acts of Parliament the Curragh was described as a common; and that almost within his own recollection the county of Kildare appointed an officer—a Conservator of the Curragh—whose duty it was to see that no encroachments were committed. It had also been asserted by lawyers that the public possessed the right of traversing any portion of the Curragh on horseback and on foot. Some time since some women were summoned for trespassing on the Curragh, but the magistrates refused to convict on the ground that the charge could not be maintained unless the prosecution proved an ownership in the soil. A stipendiary magistrate, acting upon the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown, did subsequently, he believed, commit some of these people. The question was, however, re-considered; and it was generally held by those competent to give an opinion on the matter, that the magistrate had no right to send those persons to prison at all. He mentioned this circumstance merely for the purpose of showing how doubtful were the rights claimed by
 1567
 MR. PEEL  said, that since June, 1854, the Curragh had been used as the site of a large encampment. The numbers were to be limited to 10,000, but they had not always been so. The Curragh was Crown property, subject of course to those common lights referred to by the noble Lord. It was decided, after some communication between the late Lord Herbert when at the head of the War Department and the Office of Woods and Forests to lease the Crown rights to the War Department for the term of twenty-one years, subject to termination, if deemed advisable, at the end of seven or fourteen years. It was not intended to introduce any Bill during the present Session; in fact, no Bill was required to authorize the Commission-
 1568
 LORD NAAS  wished to know if the whole of the Curragh was included in the lease?
 MR. PEEL  said, that it was, subject to the rights possessed by the Turf Club for racing and other purposes. The lease had, of course, been made subject also to such rights of commoners and others as might be found to exist. All that would be leased would be the Crown rights, whatever those rights might be.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that when the camp at the Curragh was formed the Government said there would be no infringement of the rights of the commoners, but he had always apprehended an interference with those rights. He had from the first objected to the course adopted by the Crown in reference to this matter, because the Crown possessed no rights whatever upon the Curragh. He believed that a more atrocious invasion of public property had never been heard of. There used to
 1569
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he was not so anxious as his hon. and gallant Friend to go to law about the matter, hut he had no conception that such a cool and deliberate scheme of spoliation as that apparently contemplated by the Government would have entered their heads. It was a matter of notoriety for years past that the Government had a faulty title to this land. But the affair was much worse than he thought, and he was glad it had been brought before the House. They had no right to transfer the land to the War Department, yet they proposed not only to do that, but to make permanent erections upon the Curragh. The camp there was a nuisance and an eyesore, and yet it was sought to perpetuate it. There was no knowing where all that would end. The Curragh was a place of national renown, and ought not to be cut up and destroyed. The bargain which the Government were about to make was not only illegal, but would be most obnoxious to the whole country. Barely 12,000 sheep were allowed to feed where there used to be 30,000, and the office of the ranger was to be put in abeyance. It was most essential that there should be an officer like the ranger to look after the Curragh and make such regulations as were required for the convenience of the community resorting to it. He earnestly hoped that Government would re-consider the matter before coming to a final determination upon it.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he understood that his hon. and learned Friend who moved the Amendment did not intend to divide on the second reading of the Bill, with the understanding that there should be a meeting of Scotch Members to consider the measure after the second reading. Beyond that no undertaking had been made by him (the Lord Advocate), and he intended to carry the Bill this Session if possible. The Scotch Members would meet to discuss, and not to decide upon the provisions of the Bill, and every Member would be perfectly free to take what course he might think proper. With regard to the Bill of the hon. Member for Greenock, he had given no pledge whatever, and it was his present intention to oppose it.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he understood that the learned Lord Advocate had consented to hold a meeting of the Scottish Members to consider this Bill, and that it was not therefore the intention of the hon. and learned Member for the Ayr burghs (Mr. Craufurd) to persevere with the Amendment which he had moved on the second reading.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose for the purpose of taking exception to the explanation which had been offered to the House by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in seeking to acquit the Government of the responsibility which devolved upon them for the present position of affairs in reference both to the National Gallery and the British Museum. So far as he could recollect there was considerable vacillation of opinion in regard to the National Gallery anterior to the time when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli) as Chancellor of the Exchequer, announced to the House that his Government had come to a deliberate conclusion on the subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Gladstone) would probably remember that when that announcement was made it was received with unanimous approbation, he might almost say with acclamation, by hon. Members on both sides of the House. And what was the nature of the announcement? That the long-pending negotiations—they ought rather to be called intrigues—for the purpose of removing the National Gallery to Kensington would be brought to a close; that the Government were determined to disconnect themselves altogether from the Kensington party; that the National Gallery would be devoted to its original object, and that some arrangement would be made for the benefit of the Royal Academy. That being so, the present Government acceded to office, and
 1561 1562 1563
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he approved of the course which was proposed to be taken. His object in introducing his Bill was, that the whole question should be considered
 1572
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he rose to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it is the intention of the Government to adopt the suggestions contained in the evidence given before the
 1534
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he rose to order. He wished to know whether it was competent for the right hon. Gentleman to make a statement when the papers had only just been laid upon the table of the House.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that he viewed that as another instance of the great inconvenience which had arisen since the passing of the Act 14 & 15  Vict.,
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that in consequence of the Treaties between France, Prussia, and the Zollverein States a considerable reduction would take place in the Zollverein Tariff; that reduction would extend to all countries, England included; and that would be the case whether the treaty between this country and the Zollverein should be concluded before the 1st of July or not. He hoped, however, that would be the case.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS,  in reply, said, he believed the evidence to which the hon. Member referred was that of a lady, Miss Twining, who appeared as a witness before the Poor Law Committee. She referred to the great want of improvement in the system of proper nurses for the sick poor in the workhouses of London, and stated that in most of these workhouses there was no such attendance at all. Now, he found that this was an overstatement of the case. The Metropolitan Poor Law Inspector had always urged the guardians to employ competent persons as nurses for the sick, and the fact was that upon inquiry, which he (Mr. C. P. Villiers) had directed in consequence of this evidence, he found that there were no less than ninety-three paid nurses in the different houses in London, and that out of the thirty-nine workhouses there were only eight without them. There was, however, great reason to doubt whether they were efficient for the purpose for which they were employed, and there was no doubt a great difficulty in proving who were competent persons; but, in consequence of communications lately received at the Poor Law Board from Miss Nightingale, who superintended establishments for the purpose of properly training nurses, and who was now taking much interest in the state of these houses, there was every reason to suppose that well qualified persons could be obtained, and in number equal to the demand for them, should the guardians be willing to engage them. The Poor Law Board had already issued a Circular to the guardians of all Unions and Parishes in London urging them to employ such persons, together with proper assistants, and it was to be hoped that they would now exercise their discretion in doing so. With respect to the supply of expensive medicines, such as quinine, &c, which the hon. Member inquired about, the Poor Law Board had issued a Circular to all the unions in England and Wales on this
 1535 "Article 118. Any person may visit any pauper in the workhouse, by permission of the master, or, in his absence, of the matron, subject to such conditions and restrictions as the guardians may prescribe."
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would adopt the course which had been taken on the understanding that the Bill would be brought before the meeting of Scotch Members and that he would be at liberty to reserve to himself the right of action when the Bill next came before the House.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he rose to order. He objected to the right hon. Gentleman making any statement, as no notice had been placed upon the Votes. The right hon. Gentleman, by the course he had adopted, was anticipating other Motions which were coming on that evening.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he did not think it desirable to continue the discussion. He thought the Government from what bad taken place must be convinced that it ought to pause before embarking on the illegal course which they were contemplating. He denied that the Crown had any right whatever to these lands, and maintained that there ought to be a full and fair public inquiry, with a view to the protection of the public interests, before the proposed lease was entered into. What was complained of had arisen in consequence of Irish interests not being understood by any one connected with the Government.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that in 1852 the Government and the people were directly at issue with regard to the removal of the National Gallery. The Government endeavoured to drag all the public exhibitions and buildings down to Kensington, but the House succeeded in keeping them where they were. When Colonel Mure's Committee was appointed in 1852 not one hon. Member whose views were in favour of keeping the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square was allowed to serve upon it. He declined, therefore, to be bound by the decision of a tribunal against which at the time of its nomination he protested as being unfairly constituted. The right hon. Gentleman said they accepted the Report of that Committee as the best exponent of public opinion. How, then, was it consistent for the Government to introduce a Bill, as they were about to do, for severing the collection of the British Museum, a proposal directly in opposition to part of the Report of that Committee. He shared the regret already expressed that the Government in this matter had not formed 3ome comprehensive plan and acted upon it. It was especially to be regretted that the right hon. Gentleman, who was a distinguished patron of art, justly celebrated for his taste, had not applied himself to the mastery of the whole subject a few years ago, when a decision by him would have been attended with very great advantage. Bearing in mind how London was spreading in every direction, the Government, as it appeared to him, ought to fix upon some central position such as that lying at the bend of the river between those two magnificent edifices St. Paul's and Westminster Abbey, and
 1564 1565
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the fact that the paper was laid upon the table of the House by command caused a distinction as to the necessity of giving notice. The right hon. Gentleman, however, had said that he had no desire to proceed with his statement if it were contrary to the wish of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman concluded with a Motion that the papers should lie upon the table of the House the subject would be open for debate.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, there was nothing out of order in the course which the right hon. Gentleman was pursuing. He was moving that the Minute be laid upon the table. He understood that the right hon. Gentleman purposed to make a statement not of a nature to invite discussion at present, but calculated rather to furnish the House with information which might be available for a future occasion.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to move—
 "That this House has heard with regret that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland has approved of a programme of music for the opening of the Dublin Exhibition from which all Irish music has been excluded." 1573
 MR. WALPOLE : The concluding portion of the statement of the right hon. Gentleman has, I confess, rather alarmed me. I had hoped that the declaration of the Government would have been more definite and clear as to what they intend shall be done. Some months ago I presented to the House a petition from the trustees. All the difficulties were stated in it. The petition stood over simply and solely that the Government might take the subject into serious consideration, and my right hon. Friend concludes without informing us what the Government would do, or whether the opinion of the House should be taken on that which would be the basis of all future proceedings—namely, the continuance of the collections together, or their separation. Unless the opinion of the House be taken on that point. I foresee that sufficient accommodation will not be provided. The hon. Member for
 1552 1553 1554
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Before, Sir, you pass to another subject I will say a few words especially in answer to the appeal of my right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Walpole). First, however, I must refer to the speech of my hon. Friend (Mr. Gregory) who brought forward this Motion, and whose speech resolved itself into a Bill of indictment against Governments generally and the present Government in particular. According to him everything is wrong about the British Museum and the National Gallery. The Government have always adhered to unpopular plans and rejected popular ones; and the unpopular plans have always been those of the Government and the popular ones those of my hon.
 1557 1558 1559 1560
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the reduced Tariff on British goods in Prussia and the Zoll-verein will come into operation on the 1st July next?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the condition into which our science and art collections had fallen. He thought no occasion could be more appropriate than the present to endeavour to rescue these collections of art and science from the chaos and confusion in which they had been so long involved, and that the present time was well suited for arriving at some final decision with regard to the future management of these collections. They were near the end of their days, they were in the placid humour which gilds the autumn of life, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had exhibited a
 1538 1539 1540 1541 "The practice followed in France might afford a suggestion towards the solution of these difficulties here. The works of the great living masters were placed in the Luxembourg, where they remained until time and death and the judgment of posterity entitled them to removal to the Louvre." 1542 "That Her Majesty would be graciously pleased to take into Her Royal consideration, in connection with the site of the present National Gallery, the practicability and expediency of forming by degrees a gallery of Original Portraits, such Portraits to consist, as far as possible, of those persons who are most honourably commemorated in British History as warriors or as Statesmen, or in Arts, in Literature, or in Science."—[3  Hansard, 1543 1544 1545 1546 ex-officios The Times 1547
 MR. TITE  said, he did not think the Government were to blame with reference to the National Gallery, as they had proposed a scheme last year to remove it to Piccadilly, which had his humble approval, but which received the support of only a minority of that House. He thought it would have been much better to erect a new building wherein they could make efficient arrangements and avoid all the
 1556
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he gathered from the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) that he contemplated the erection of some temporary building at the back of the building in Trafalgar Square. [Mr. COWPER; Not temporary.] He did not understand it to be, strictly speaking, a temporary building, but he understood him to say that they should make the best of the buildings they now possessed, with the view hereafter that these buildings might be taken down and something better put in their place. He maintained that this was in reality making a temporary arrangement. We were a great deal too fond in this country of erecting temporary buildings, or "make-shifts," and we spent immense sums of money very unwisely in that way. If all that the country spent in make-shifts had been applied to the erection of one building they would have had one that was both useful and handsome. A well-considered plan should be proposed for a handsome building which would be a per-
 1555
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to know whether the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Greenock (Mr. Dunlop) upon the same subject, and which the majority of Members from Scotland believed to be a better Bill than that of the Lord Advocate, was to be read a second time, so that the two Bills might be considered together. If that were not done, it would be under a great disadvantage as compared with the rival measure.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he also rose to order. He was aware that the right hon. Gentleman had fairly enough given notice on the previous evening of the course which he intended to pursue, and that notice was, no doubt, recorded in the newspapers, but it was impossible for them to obtain their information from the newspapers. When he heard of the intentions of the right hon. Gentleman, he looked upon the Votes without being able to discover any notice of the course which the right hon. Gentleman proposed to adopt. He thought it very desirable that explanations should be given, but he submitted, at the same time, that it was not desirable that statements should be made without there being any opportunity afforded for answer or debate.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he wished to know, if the right hon. Gentleman proceeded with the statement, whether it would be competent to raise a debate in reply to the information given.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, it was true that Lord Chelsea, the junior captain, had been appointed to the vacant majority over the heads of the remaining captains. It was no doubt true as a general rule, but by no means an invariable rule, that such appointments should be made by seniority, but several reasons had been held sufficient to justify a departure from that rule, one of which was local influence and position in the county. The militia was essentially a local force, and the influence and position of the officers of that force were always taken into consideration. In the present instance the lord-lieutenant had represented to the Secretary of State that the position of Lord Chelsea in the county was such as to render it for the advantage of the regiment that he should be appointed to the majority, and the Secretary of State had, therefore, recommended the confirmation of his appointment.
 MR, CRAWFORD  said, he would also beg to ask the right hon. Baronet, Whether he has received any official account of the Financial Statement of the Indian Government in India?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that he had received no information at all upon the subject. With reference to the more general part of the hon. Member's Question the colony referred to stood in exactly the same position to England as any other British Colony, and any man escaping from it to this country could be arrested by means of a proper warrant issued by the local authorities.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that it would be as inexpedient for the House hastily to adopt the course suggested by the noble Lord as that proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Walsall, because if there was one thing more desirable than another it was that the confidence of the House should not be unduly withheld from Committees to whom it referred inquiries of this description. The observation of the noble Lord led him to the conclusion that he had not very long or
 1612 onus 1613
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What steps he has taken, or proposes to take, to remedy the very serious evils which have been brought to light by the evidence taken by the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the condition of mines, and which was reported last Session.
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, I wish to ask the indulgence of the House to a personal matter, arising out of the debate that took place in this House on Wednesday last, on the Borough Franchise Extension Bill. In the course of that debate I made a statement relative to what had taken place at an interview between the hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. W. E. Forster) and Mr. Mason Jones, as I was told, in the lobby. That statement I made upon authority which I believed to be sufficient, and the circumstances attending that interview appeared to be such as to justify my making the statement I did to the House. Subsequent to the debate I received a letter from Mr. Jones, in which he asked me for my authority, and said that I had misrepresented him. I declined to give up my authority, but I at once said, that nothing could be further from my intention than knowingly to misrepresent any gentleman, and that I should not have the slightest hesitation to express my regret publicly to the House for having misrepresented him. That led to a correspondence between us, and a meeting—and the result was, that the meeting ended in the most friendly manner, for we shook hands at parting. The part of the statement which I made, to which Mr. Jones takes exception was that part in which I stated that he apostrophised the hon. Member for Bradford in certain words, those words being "that he had no business to sit in that House." Mr. Jones said he did not use those words, and therefore I am bound to state that my informant in that respect was completely in error. With reference to the former part of my statement, in which I said that the hon. Member for Bradford had been asked to attend a meeting, and that on his declining to attend this meeting Mr. Jones addressed him in words to the effect, "Then, sir, we don't want you;" my statement on that point is admitted to be substantially correct; but Mr. Jones went on to say that he did not want
 1603
 MR. DENMAN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Junior Captain of the 3rd Middlesex Militia has recently been appointed to the vaeant Majority of that
 1599
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that this debate had presented some rather remarkable features, and one of the most remarkable was that lately presented by a Member of the Government, whose object in rising appeared to be to defend himself and his Colleagues against the attacks of his own party. Of that speech, however, the right hon. Gentleman's own supporters were better judges than himself. All that he could gather from the right hon. Gentleman was that he supported a £6 franchise Bill; but, although he supported the second reading, he said the Government did not go to the hustings pledged to a £6 franchise. It had been said that there was a civil war raging on the other side of the House. Now he did not consider it a civil war, but simply a struggle of prudence
 1650 "To show the anomalies which exist in a few of the principal towns in the mode of rating—a house of 2 s. s.; s.; s.; s.; s.; 1651 s. s., s. 1652 "Why are you afraid of the unenfranchised millions, who marry, keep house, rear children, and pay taxes? And why do you Tories, and those very wise gentlemen the Whigs, who think like Tories "—(the gentlemen, by the way, whom the hon. Member for Birmingham supports)—"vote for the exclusion of these millions?" 1653 s. d. 1654 "Owing to the superior class of houses now built and building, and the desire of the working classes to occupy them, large numbers are annually growing into the franchise." "A very large proportion of the working classes of St. Philip and Jacob Without and of Bedminster are upon the register. I take those as two large parishes in Bristol where the artisans preponderate. There is a very large number on
 1655 elite "In a good half measure of Reform there are at least two essential requisites. 1. It should be aimed at the really worst features of the existing system, since it does not profess to do everything it should do what is most required, it should apply a corrective where one is most urgently required. 2. It should be conceived with an eye to the further changes which may be expected hereafter, whatever change it introduces should be a step in the direction in which a further advance is, or will hereafter be desirable." 1656
 MR. W. O. STANLEY , as a Member of the Committee, said, that Mitchell had been convicted of forging signatures to petitions from Pimlico, from Westminster, and from another place, the evidence as to which he made no attempt to disprove.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he trusted that those hon. Members who had shown impatience during this discussion would bear in mind that they were dealing, not with an abstract question, but with a question affecting the liberty of a fellow subject. The question was, whether they should send a man to Newgate, and it would be a disgrace to the House of Commons if such a question were not entertained in the most patient and impartial temper. His hon. and learned Friend who had just sat down (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) stated that Mitchell had ample opportunity of giving evidence before the Committee. But that was the very point on which the House had to decide; and any one who read the evidence must, as it seemed to him, arrive at the opposite conclusion. Mitchell was examined on the last day the Committee sat, and he then declared that he desired two things—first, that he should have an opportunity of cross-examining his accuser; and, secondly, that he should be allowed to produce witnesses to show that the evidence of Mr. Nethercliffe was erroneous. One would naturally imagine that such a request would at once be complied with; but the answer of the Committee was that "they had already evidence enough to report to the House the result of the inquiry." Under these circumstances he could not vote for depriving that man of his liberty; and he begged to move, as an Amendment, that the Report be referred back to the same Committee.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I could have wished, and once I almost believed, that it was not necessary for me to take part in this debate. I look on this discussion as the natural Epilogue to the Parliament of 1859. We remember the Prologue. I consider this to be a controversy between the "educated section of the Liberal party," and that section of the Liberal party, not entitled, according to their companions and Colleagues, to an epithet so euphuistic and complimentary. But after the speech of the Minister, I hardly think it would become me—representing the opinions of the Gentlemen with whom I am acting on this side of the House—entirely to be silent. 1692 1693 1694 1695 1696 1697 1698 1699 1700 1701 1702 1703 1704 1705
 MR. BUXTON  said, it was not his business to defend the Government from the attacks that had been made upon it; but he did not think that any man of plain common sense would have taken the course which the Government had pursued on this subject. They had fulfilled their pledge by bringing in a Reform Bill; but, through the conduct of Gentlemen on both sides, they found it impossible to carry it, and they were ultimately obliged to withdraw it. Although they had not deemed it advisable to bring forward their own measure again, they had voted for similar measures when proposed by others. His hon. Friend the Member for Huddersfield (Mr. Leatham) qualified his speech in various ways, but the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne gave them a very distinct answer to the question by saying, "Do nothing, but stay where you are." Now, that answer had the merit of being simple and straightforward, but it had the demerit of being entirely impracticable. He (Mr. Buxton) wished to deal with the practical question, what
 1661 1662 guasi 1663 1664 bond fide 1665 1666
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he believed that some £12,000 was found on the occasion referred to by the hon. Baronet, and that certain portions of the money were distributed among the troops by Sir Hope Grant under the orders of the Government. He was not aware that any money had been kept back, or that there was any further sum to be distributed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, it was not his intention to raise any Loan of the nature referred to by the hon. Member.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, I have not yet received any official accounts of the financial measures proposed in India, but I have received private letters upon the subject, containing a copy of Sir Charles Trevelyan's speech and the Report of the proceedings of the Council of the Governor General by which the Act was passed imposing these duties. I must confess that the course which has been taken is directly the reverse of what I had reason to expect, and, moreover, that it is not the course I myself should have thought right to propose. I only received these letters yesterday, and, in point of fact, have not yet had time thoroughly to master their contents, but I quite agree in the opinion that on questions so much affecting the trade between India and this country, it is of the greatest possible importance that the commercial interests of this country should be informed, as speedily as possible, what it is intended to do. I therefore summoned together this morning as many of the Council of India as I could assemble for the purpose of giving the matter our best consideration, and I may now say that with their entire concurrence it will be my duty not to sanction the imposition of the Export Duties.
 MR. HORSMAN : I assure the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli, who had risen at the same time) that I make him every apology for interposing between him and the House; but he can command its attention at an hour when Members less eminent cannot hope to do so; and therefore I hope that he will forgive me if, for a few moments, I venture to trespass upon your patience. Sir, those who have listened to the very able, argumentative, and ingenious speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Halifax, who has just sat down, cannot fail to have been struck by the very marked distinction which is discernible between the small and insignificant and harmless character of this Bill, as described in his speech, and its larger character, and more important and inevitable tendencies as illustrated by his arguments. Ostensibly, it is a Bill to introduce a £6 franchise in boroughs; but, logically and practically, it is a Bill to abolish the £10 franchise established by the Reform Act, and to substitute a new franchise under which the great bulk of the operative population shall be admitted to vote. I am sure that my hon. Friend who introduced the Bill will not object to
 1675
 MR. HORSMAN : The explanation of my hon. Friend drives me for a moment to an entirely new line of argument. I should be extremely sorry to misrepresent him, but I think that by reminding him of his own arguments I need not despair of making him a convert to my construction of them. What has been the burden of his speeches? They have gone to prove that the operative class are, as a class, so virtuous and intelligent that they ought to be admitted to the franchise. [Mr. BAINES: Not universally] [Order!] If my hon. Friend will be patient, I will remind him of his argument step by step. He gave us, as I am sure he will remember, a great quantity of industrial statistics to prove the fitness of that class; he told us of their material and mental and moral elevation, and enlarged upon the thousands of newspapers they read and the millions of letters they write. He dwelt upon their cooperative societies, their savings' bank deposits, their schools, and institutes; and, on one occasion, he told us that there were no fewer than 3,000,000 teetotallers, principally of the operative class. Now I want to know what could be the meaning of this vast amount of statistical information all about the operative class, and introduced into a speech on the lowering of the borough franchise, except to show that as a class they were fit for the franchise? 1676 1677 elite 1678 1679 1680 1681 1682 1683 1684 * 1685 1686 1687 Mr. Sbrsman 1688 1689 1690 1691
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he had, at the instance of several hon. Members, and also as a public duty, consented to servo on this Committee, and he must beg therefore to say a few words, The allega-
 1610 1611
 MR. STANSFELD : Sir, I am not desirous to enter into party or personal questions raised on former occasions; I have no letters from America or from the colonies with which to amuse the House; I have no conversations in the lobby to report. I rise for the simple, and I hope legitimate if not very interesting, purpose of supporting the second reading of this Bill. We have heard from many Members who have spoken in this debate exhortations to speak as candidly as we are supposed to do behind the Chair or in the lobby, without having the fear of the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire before our eyes. I entirely give my assent to this exhortation, and I think the speech of the noble Lord and those who followed him on the same side, are entitled to the merit of frankness. But it is a totally different question whether their speeches represent the fair and average opinion of the majority of this House—and that is a matter upon which I would beg leave to take issue with them. We have had Reform before this House and the country some thirteen or
 1667 1668 facilis descensus averni, 1669 1670 "The simple fact of these savings being effected, and of these houses being erected, by the
 1671 "I ask the House upon which of the classes here described will the Bill of the hon. Member for Leeds operate? Not upon the provident, but mainly upon the improvident class. For the provident are not only in possession of the franchise—they have soared far above it, and have got into the region of freeholders. It will, therefore, apply to the men who waste their time in these profitless and degrading pursuits, in order, I suppose, that they may be elevated and fished out of the mire in which they delight to grovel, introduced to power, and intrusted with control over the Constitution of the country. …The question for you now to determine is whether you ought to bring down the franchise to the level of those persons who have no such sense of decency or morality, and of what is due to themselves and their children—whether you will, so to speak, degrade the franchise into the dirt, imperil your institutions, and put yourselves in danger of their overthrow, or whether you will make this franchise a vast instrument of good, a lever by which you may hope to elevate the working classes—not in the manner in which a mawkish sentimentality contemplates, hut really to raise the working classes in the social scale by fixing the franchise at a reasonable level, requiring a little, and only a little, effort on their part to attain." 1672 1673 ignava ratio, doctrinaire 1674 non possumus
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that as the member of the Committee who had dis-
 1607 "You are not asked to swear to it. Do attend to the form of the question. You have stated that you are well acquainted with the character of Mitchell's handwriting. Look carefully at that signature of the name of Hawes,' and state whether you have any belief, or can form any judgment, one way or the other, as to whether that is in Mitchell's handwriting. Do not appeal to anybody else, but exercise your own judgment. From your knowledge of the character of Mitchell's handwriting (and you have apparently some of his handwriting in your hand), do you see any resemblance so as to enable you to form a belief one way or the other?—Well, I should not like to swear. "You are not sworn, you are only asked to speak to your actual belief. Do you see any sufficient resemblance to his handwriting to enable
 1608 "But do you think that it is not so wholly dissimilar as to make you say, in your judgment, that it might not be written by him?—Decidedly Dot." 1609
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that in his reading of history he had come across a decision very like the present. In 1793 there were jurors appointed by the Committee of Public Safety, and they were told they need not hear evidence, as they were already sufficiently informed in the case which were to come before them. They did so, and people were executed under their decisions. If the statement of the hon. Member who had just spoken was correct, that was precisely what this Committee had done. He did not know one word about this matter, But the House were exercising a great penal power, and he advised them not to take one step without carefully considering to what it would lead. The accused said, and he was supported by a Member of that House that he had been denied the opportunity of being heard. The hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Charles Forster) said the man had had every opportunity of being heard. He (Mr. Roebuck) wanted to know which of these statements was right. He was there a most helpless individual. He was at the mercy of the hon. Member for Walsall and the hon. Member behind him. One Gentleman declared distinctly that every opportunity had been given to the man of being heard, and the other declared as distinctly that the Committee decided that he should not be heard. They sat in that House as the representatives of a great body of people, whose pride was the impartiality of their Courts of Justice; they were about to exercise one the privileges of a court of justice, and send a man to prison; and were they not bound to take the same course of proceeding that a court of justice followed? He unhesitatingly appealed to the House to say in this matter that the House was not sufficiently informed.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is his intention to propose any Loan in this country for the purpose of the Indian Government?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that his hon. Friend was quite aware of the history of the undertakings at Chatham and at Portsmouth, but the meaning of his question was in one respect not quite clear. If his hon. Friend meant to ask whether there was any plan on the part of the Government for a deviation from the system of providing year by year by Votes of that House for the expenditure of the year, he could only say that there was no such plan in contemplation; but it had long been felt in the public departments, and especially at the Admiralty, that a great disadvantage and waste of public money arose from attempts to limit the formation
 1604
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not give a positive answer, as everything would depend upon the money market and the state of the finances of the country.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Sir, the right hon. Gentleman began his speech by saying be would tell the House what he would do with reference to this subject, and what would be the future policy of the Government in regard to it. Now, I ask is there any Gentleman on either side of the House who, having heard that speech, has any idea what that policy is to be—except a policy which I never expected to hear from any Treasury Bench, and still less from the present one—namely, that the policy would be regulated by their interest in the Government. I am glad that this question has been brought forward. I have always felt that there was little chance of this Bill being carried in the present temper of the House; but I did think it would be the means of raising the whole Reform question before the House. We have the Reform question now before the House, and the chief point we want to know is, not what the Ministers will do in the support of this particular Bill, but to know whether, at the election speedily coming, they are or are not a Reform Ministry? We who are called upon to support them want to know whether we shall be supporting a Reform Ministry. We who sit on this side of the House have a right to know who we are supporting; and the hon. Gentlemen on the other side, who have only recently ceased to be Reformers, have a right to know who they are opposing. What has the right hon. Gentleman told us about that? He repeated the pledge made when the present Ministry came into power in I860. Are they released from that pledge? I will not attempt to measure the amount of sincerity shown by them or their supporters; but does the fact that they brought forward a Bill and withdrew it release them from the pledge given on this Reform question? Who has the power of releasing them from that pledge? Has my right hon. Friend who sits near me (Mr. Horsman), who was no party to the contract, the right of releasing
 1641 1642 1643 1644 élite "It may be fearlessly asserted that the fixed traditional sentiment of the working man has begun to be confidence in the law, in Parliament, and even in the executive Government."—[3  Hansard, "I venture, however, to make this prediction—that if they do unite their fortunes with the fortunes of Democracy, as it is proposed they should do in the case of this measure, they will not miss one of two things. If they fail in carrying this measure, they will ruin their party; and if they succeed in carrying this measure they will ruin their country."—[3  Hansard, 1645 1646 "The present franchise, I may add, on the whole—subject of course to some exceptions—draws the line between the lower middle class and the upper order of the working class. As a general rule, the lower stratum of the middle class is admitted to the exercise of the franchise, while the upper stratum of the working class is excluded. That I believe to be a fair general description of the present formation of the constituencies in boroughs and towns. Is it a state of things, I would ask, recommended by clear principles of reason? Is the upper portion of the working classes inferior to the lowest portion of the middle? That is a question I should wish to be considered on both sides of the House."—[3  Hansard, á priori The Times 1647 Blackstone, 1648 The Quarterly Review, 1649
 MR. GREGORY  said, he thought it must have struck every one who had either heard or read the debate of last Wednesday that accusations of insincerity were scattered with most remarkable profusion by almost every Liberal speaker upon almost every Liberal Member of the House. First, his noble Friend below him (Lord Elcho) accused the hon. Member who introduced the Bill (Mr. Baines) of being insincere, because on an occasion for testing the Liberal opinion of the House selected by the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White) he bolted from the House, and that with so much precipitation as to prevent the hon. Member with whom he came in contact from continuing the performance of his Parliamentary duties for that evening. Then the hon. Member for Hud-dersfield (Mr. Leatham) turned his at-
 1614 1615 1616 1617 "The speakers at the late Bradford meeting, Mr. Stansfeld, Sir F. Crossley, Mr. Baines, and Mr. Forster, pleaded for no more (Mr. Stansfeld alone gave advice which would secure more) than the partial enfranchisement plan—a policy which palters with the popular hope, which fears to look the light in the face, which offers the least measure that can be called an improvement, settles nothing, and perpetuates the old disappointment.…No partial enfranchisement can produce direct political improvement unless large enough to effect a substantial transfer of power.…There may be no reason to refuse partial enfranchisement; but it would be as indecent in the working classes to exult in it as it would be in ten men who were taken from a wreck by a choice of the captain, and who should throw up their caps in the face of all those left to their fate." 1618 onus s. 1619 1620 "The National Reform Union of Manchester does propose an extension of the suffrage 'to every householder or lodger rated or liable to be rated for the relief of the poor.' A Bill which included all this would do and would end the agitation. But there is no such Bill drawn. There is no Member who would introduce it. Nor is there any probability of carrying it. The Union gives no sign of preparation or persistency for carrying it. It would require a revolution to carry it. The Union does not mean this. It does not even confront, nor even discuss the grounds of opposition to such a Bill. Its programme runs in the old, tiresome, tame, wearying, struggling, discouraging Radical rut. It proposes a suffrage without guarantees for its qualified action. It gives to the working class the numerical majority. I am not one who believe that the working class would ever vote down the men of property and education. But they might do so. No absolute guarantee can be given that they never would do so, and the men of property and intelligence would have, if this Bill passed, to trust to this event not occurring. They would hold their liberty and interests on sufferance. They would be in the same position in which the unenfranchised now are. Objecting myself to hold my liberty on sufferance, I should be most reluctant to put this risk on the educated and wealthy class. No class ought to be put in this position. No class ought to submit to it. Now, this is the real dilemma which exists. This dilemma the National Reform Union neither recognizes nor provides for. This formidable difficulty no Radical orator meets. This is why the Reform question stagnates and remains where it is. Everybody at times feels this difficulty, yet no one on the side of Radical Reform dares look it in the face, or has the courage to state it, or attempt to meet it. How can it be met except by adopting Mr. Mill's proposal of giving the wealthy and educated classes the protection of cumulative votes? or by acting on Earl Grey's suggestion of giving to the unenfranchised classes a special number of Members who should share in the representation without swamping it? Liberal M.P.' s and the Liberal press appear to have set their faces against such indispensable plans, caricaturing them as' fancy franchises' as though a vast and protective suffrage, which obviated an overwhelming difficulty, could be so described." 1621 "I know towns where ardent Reformers are themselves afraid of an unqualified suffrage. Good Radicals, the most thorough of their class, have said to me, 'There is a mob in our town (there is in every town), ignorant, selfish, venal, and reckless of principle; had they all votes, our present Liberal Members would be unseated at the next election. They would vote against those who seek to raise them.' This is a general feeling in Liberal boroughs. Now there is no plan of a £6 suffrage which selects the worthy and excludes the base. All £6 suffrage is blind; and hence we have Radicals arguing feebly and fearing much the result of the very measure they plead for. Surely this is political imbecility. This is the real dilemma which ought to be put an end to by adopting a plan of protective suffrage, of which the only opponents are Radicals whose policy has long undergone petrefaction." 1622 onus 1623 1624 1625 "An effort was made by Mr. O'Shanassy, in the Assembly, to obtain a grant of £50,000 this year in aid of assisted female immigration. We regret to say the proposition was defeated, partly through the opposition of the Government, but chiefly through the selfishness of the ultra-democratic section of the House. It is a fact that the males in our population outnumber the females by no less than 150,000. Of course, good female servants are scarce, and in demand at rates of wages varying from £30 to £40 a year. The want of a continuous flow of immigration into our territory is one of the main causes of those occasional perils of stagnation in trade and commerce of which the mercantile community, both here and at home, have reason to complain. It really seems at present to be hopeless to expect anything like generous, public-spirited, and far-sighted legislation from our Assembly. This is one of the penalties which must everywhere be sometimes set against the enjoyment of perfect popular freedom." "We have all been aghast, like England, I suppose, at Gladstone's Reform speech. What does he mean by talking of lowering the franchise? If ho had seen it work, as we have in these colonies, to our bitter cost, he would not have talked such" Here was a complimentary epithet he would not repeat. "We have had our Parliament dishonoured and degraded by the wretched place-hunters and demagogues that a low suffrage has forced into power, and Victoria is trying to retrace her steps and to raise the suffrage again as
 1626 "Every man who goes to your colonies repudiates your policy, repudiates your debts, and thanks Heaven that he has at last found a country where industry can have its reward, and where men calling themselves statesmen are not using every engine of Government to deprive him of the produce of his industry and to diminish the comforts and independence of his family. And you, landed proprietors of England, rember that, however many of your countrymen may emigrate,
 1627 New York Times "Providence, Wednesday, April 4, 1860. Beyond a doubt the continued Democratic and Conservative Republican Ticket is successful in this State. The greatest excitement has attended the election, and every device which party tactics could suggest has been employed by both parties to secure their success. The open purchase of votes has been a remarkable feature of the day. The voters when led up to the ballot box would with one hand drop the ticket, and with the other receive the bribe. The negro vote rated high, some coloured brethren receiving fifty dollars each. Individuals of comparative wealth declined to vote unless paid to do so. Voters publicly put themselves up for purchase. Bids would commence at ten dollars and run up to fifty dollars. Great goodhumour and merriment prevailed all day. The excitement was intense. Bands of music, banners, decorated waggons, and hired conveyances of every description paraded the streets from early morning till now. The announcement of Padelford's unsuccessful attempt to bribe the town clerk of Cranstone undoubtedly lost him a large vote. In other towns wholesale bribery was even more open and outrageous. Bonfires, cannon, liquor, cash, and excitement abound. The Demoorats are rejoicing that, with their registry taxes all paid by the Union party, they will go into the Presidential fight stronger than ever. Good order has been maintained throughout. Everybody drinks, but everybody appears to be used to it." 1628 1629 duodecimo
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, that the result of the Report of the Select Committee to which the Order of the Day referred, was that thirteen gentlemen whose names were attached to the petitions had appeared before the Select Committee, and had stated that they had given no authority to any person to sign their names, which had been affixed to the petitions without their knowledge. The Committee, which consisted of the Members of the Public Petitions Committee, had had the benefit of the legal experience of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), and he felt sure he expressed the general feeling of the Committee in acknowledging the great assist-
 1605 d. 1606
 MR. BAINES : amid cries of "Order, order!" was understood to say, that he had said that only a portion of the operative classes would, under this Bill, be admitted to the franchise.
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, If his attention has been called to a recent case in the Common Pleas, "Corbett  v.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, he had felt no desire to take part in the debate until he heard the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe); but that ever since he had heard that speech he had much wished to say a few words, not because he had the vanity to suppose himself a fit antagonist of his right hon. Friend, but because he was convinced that, although his right hon. Friend's arguments derived an appearance of strength from the force of his expressions, and the fertility and ingenuity of his illustrations, yet their intrinsic hollowness would become evident if they were briefly examined even by a speaker of far inferior power. His right hon. Friend claimed to speak with peculiar authority on the ground of his extraordinary consistency. But however much he (Sir Francis Goldsmid) might be disposed to admit the great ability of the right hon. Gentleman, it could not be understood why he imagined himself to be consistent. Shortly after his right hon. Friend's speech, he was reminded by the hon. Member for Liskeard (Mr. Bernal Osborne) that he had supported in 1859 Lord John Russell's Resolution, which pointed directly to some such extension of the franchise as was proposed by this Bill. Again, was not his right hon. Friend a Member of the Administration which introduced the Reform Bill of 1860—a measure which, to adopt the phraseology of the right hon. Gentleman, must be called a "revolver," of which the present Bill was a "single barrel," but the contents of every barrel of which were, according to his present views, fraught with elements destructive of the best interests of humanity? He could understand how on minor matters his right hon. Friend was at liberty to sacrifice his own opinions to those of his
 1657 a priori a priori 1658 a priori 1659 d. s. 1660 ignava ratio
 SIR GEORGE GREY  rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law as to subscriptions and declarations made by the clergy of the Established Church. The right hon. Baronet was about to state the main objects of the Bill, when an hon. Member moved that the House be counted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Towards the close of the debate on Wednesday last an appeal was made to the Government to state explicitly the course which they proposed to take in reference to the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for Leeds for the second reading of this Bill; and also to state their general intentions and opinions with regard to the question of Parliamentary Reform. Sir, the Government are not prepared to dispute the reasonableness of that demand; and they are prepared to give an explicit answer to the appeal which has thus been made to them. A great many hon. Members on the opposite Benches who were here at the close of the debate on Wednesday were not in attendance at the commencement. Had they been here before they would have known that the Motion for the second reading and the Amendment for the Previous Question had not been put from the Chair till an advanced hour of the day; and that after they had been put only three speeches were addressed to the House. It was clear to me through the whole debate that it was impossible but there must be an adjournment. By desire of my Colleagues I had come here, in the absence of my noble Friend at the head of the Government, to take part in the debate;
 1630 1631 1632 "I shall not discuss the character of that measure till it is brought forward; but I have reason to believe that there certainly will be in it a diminution of the borough franchise. I do not know what it is intended to do with regard to the counties; but as far as my opinion goes I should wish to have, to a certain extent, a diminution of the franchise for both counties and boroughs. I think the objects of such measures should be as they have been proclaimed before the country, to give the working classes a share of the electoral franchise.—[3 Hansard, "The question of the borough franchise must be dealt with; and it must be dealt with, too, with reference to the introduction of the working classes. We admit that that has been the opinion of Parliament, and that it has been the opinion of the country as shown by the hon. Gentlemen who have been returned to this House. We cannot be blind to that result. We
 1633 Hansard, 1634 Laughter 1635 1636 1637 1638 1639 1640
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in the absence of his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland he could inform the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) that he had received a letter from the Lord Lieutenant stating that the impression which appeared to exist in the mind of the hon. Member that he had struck out Irish music from the programme of the opening ceremony of the Dublin Exhibition was incorrect. All his noble Friend had done was to suggest that the musical performance should be shortened, in order that the ceremonial might not he too long. The music was all chosen from the works of Handel, Haydn, and Meyerbeer.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the course which had been taken with respect to the Report was this. It had been thought right to confer with the Members of that Commission, several of whom were Members of that House, on the subject. On many of the points raised in the Report it did not appear possible that any legislation could take place, but there were other points on which it might be expedient to legislate, and he had accordingly called a meeting at the Home Office, when that matter was fully gone into; and it was decided by a majority of the Members of that Commission that with a view to the accomplishment of the object in question it was inexpedient that any hasty
 1600
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is the intention of the Government in India to impose Export Duties on the more important staples of that country, and whether the Home Government approve of that course of policy?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been called to the Correspondence between the Secretary to the Admiralty and the Secretary to the Treasury relating to the proposed extension of Basin and Dock accommodation in the Royal Dockyards, from which it appears that an expenditure of more than £2,500,000 at Chatham and Portsmouth is in contemplation, of which sum not more than £90,000 has been provided for in the Estimates for the current year; and whether it is the intention of the Government to propose any plan to this House for providing for the remainder of the contemplated expenditure; if so, when such a proposal is likely to be made?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, What was the total amount of the booty taken at the Begum's Coote, Lucknow, in December, 1858; what proportion of that amount was awarded to the troops by whom it was captured; whether the whole amount which was awarded has been distributed; and, if not, when the final distribution may be expected? He might just mention that there were a good many private soldiers in this country who believed that they were entitled to receive some money, and to whom it would be a satisfaction to learn their true position in respect to this matter.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he believed this Resolution related to the renewal of £1,000,000 Exchequer Bonds. They had been lately doing a good deal in the way of reducing the National Debt, and he trusted that they were not going to renew these bonds again.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the letter referred to by his hon. and gallant Friend was received at the War Office and returned to the senior officer in command of the Corps with a notification that everything respecting the subject must be forwarded to the War Office through the lord-lieutenant of the county. It was irregular and contrary to the discipline of the Volunteer Force that any such representation, or, indeed, any collective representation at all bearing upon the discipline of a Corps, should be made. If the letter in question, therefore, had reached the Secretary of State through the proper channel, it would have been their duty at the War Office to point out to the lord-lieutenant the irregularity of the course adopted. With regard to the latter portion of the Question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, he had only to state that the appointment was recommended by the lord-lieutenant, and was accordingly approved by the Secretary of State.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in moving the Order of the Day for the resumption of the adjourned debate, said, that he wished to state to the House what he considered the wisest and safest mode of proceeding. Since the discussion of the previous evening he had endeavoured to make himself master of all the facts connected with the Report of the Committee, with a view to tender his advice to the House as to the course which they should pursue. The question was whether a resolution should be adopted with a view to commit to prison a person who was said to have been guilty of a gross breach of the privileges of the House, and he had no hesitation in saying that having regard to the gravity of the offence the Motion of the Chairman of the Committee was a right and proper one. The question under consideration was whether the resolution proposed by the Chairman of the Committee should be adopted, or the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) who desired to have the matter referred back to the Committee. The Motion was made under peculiar circumstances, and the case had been somewhat altered by the presentation of a petition from Mitchell complaining that the Committee had not afforded him a sufficient opportunity of defending himself—that the evidence of Mr. Netherclift was unfounded, and that he was prepared to refute it on oath and by witnesses, but that he had had no op-
 52 53 bona
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : The hon. and learned Gentleman is confouning the London and Westminster petitions.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the first part of the
 49
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that it undoubtedly was the intention of Her Majesty's Government, at the earliest period at which it could possibly be done consistent with the due attention which so important a subject do-served, to submit a measure for the Amendment and consolidation of the Bankruptcy Laws. As he had previously stated, it was not likely that this would be done this Session. With regard to the question whether such a measure would provide for the abolition of the power of imprisonment of debtors, and compel the payment of money tinder any judgment or order of any Court, the hon. Member was aware that the Committee had recommended generally the total abolition of the power of imprisonment for debt. That subject would therefore he considered by the Government with all the authority which the recommendations of the Committee could give it, but it was not in his power to anticipate the final decision of the Government any more on that than on the other recommendations of the Committee. He had no reason to doubt that there would be a desire to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee, provided no difficulties should arise to prevent those recommendations from being carried out.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for St. Ives whether lie intends under these circumstances to proceed with his Insolvent Debtors Bill?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the notice had been worded so as to be vague in its terms; he had, therefore, suggested the terms which the hon. Member had now adopted. A great many petitions had been presented from miners, complaining of what they conceived to be some defects in the administration of the Act for the Regulation and Inspection of Mines. As that Act had been in operation for some years, it was a fit subject for inquiry, though he doubted whether a Committee could now conclude its labours in time to make a Report during the present Session, If the hon. Member thought it right to take the Committee under these circumstances, there would be no objection.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought a Royal Commission, which would have been able to visit localities and look personally into the matter, would have afforded a more effectual means of inquiry that a Select Committee. At the same time, he thought it would be very dangerous for the House to resist the demand made
 73
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not aware that a Royal Commission had been asked for. He had understood that a Committee was what it was wished to obtain.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wanted to know whether inquiry were to be limited to coal mines, or to extend to different metalliferous mines, such as those in Cornwall?
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Act mentioned only referred to coal and iron stone mines, and the petitions were limited in the same way.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, it was to be regretted that there was so little time left forgoing into the question. He agreed with the bon. Baronet opposite (Sir James Fergusson) that a Royal Commission would have afforded a more satisfactory means of inquiry than a Select Committee. The case made out by the working miners was so strong, that it was impossible for the House to resist the inquiry. He hoped the Committee would sufficiently appreciate the strong feeling that existed on the part of these men, to determine that something should be done. It was very desirable that they should, if possible, make their Report this Session; but if that could not be done, they might recommend the Government to appoint a Royal Commission.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he did not think the House would do any good by going into the evidence in detail, as the case was to go again before the Committee. He had read it all very carefully, and the conclusion he had drawn from it was that the Committee were warranted in the judgment they had come to, so far as Mitchell was concerned; but, looking to the course the matter had taken, he thought it right that further inquiry should be made, so as to give the accused every opportunity of defence that he would have before a court of justice. It was a serious charge against Mr. Mitchell, and the House ought to be very tender in respect of any course which they took on this occasion. But there was, in his judgment, a far more important question which the Committee would yet have to consider. The Report was not an exhaustive one as regarded another person named in the case, and, no doubt, the first application which Mr. Mitchell would make, when the Committee re-assembled, would be for liberty to cross-examine Mr. Strutt. The moment the Committee met again the conduct of Strutt must be re-considered. It was the last request of Mitchell that he should be allowed to re-cross-examine Strutt. Who was Strutt? He was  fons et origo mali. 57 "You must be very careful about the petitions, as the gentleman who has seen them makes some very candid remarks, and I am inclined, from what he says, not to require any more signatures," 58
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether there is any objection to lay upon the table of the House a Copy of his own Despatch of 8th August last, and of the Minute of Lieut.-Col. Strachey, late Secretary of Public Works, upon the policy of the Government undertaking the construction of the necessary Irrigation Works in India, in preference to intrusting their construction to private companies?
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he was sorry to hear the remarks which the noble Lord had made with reference to the Members of the Committee.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he had no intention of casting any imputation upon the Members of the Committee. He had referred particularly to the two hon. Gentlemen who had spoken at length on adverse sides of the question.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he believed it would be more satisfactory if a Committee of five were named by the Committee of Selection for the purpose of deciding upon this case. After the expression of opinion which some of the Members of the Committee had made in that House he was afraid that but little weight would attach to their votes upon the subject.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he did not think they could agree to such a Resolution as that proposed, when the hon. Gentleman had not suggested what would be a proper communication between guard and passengers. The hon. Gentleman had been rather severe on the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of I Trade for the unfeeling way in which he had spoken of the number of lives lost on railways. But he believed that there was a very exaggerated idea in the public mind as to the loss of life on railways. Only the other day he had seen an account of the loss of life in the streets of London during the last year, and it actually exceeded the whole number of lives lost by accidents on the whole of the railways in the kingdom. Last year when Mr. Briggs was unfortunately murdered, he had brought the question before the House. He had received many letters containing suggestions on this subject, but he found that there was only one mode of communication that was satisfactory, and that such a mode was not possible in this country because there was not sufficient space for the guards to pass. The loss of life to guards from the footboard system was very great on the Continent. He would urge upon the hon. Gentleman, therefore, that that was not the proper time for proposing such a Motion as the present, and that he ought to be prepared to point out the proper mode of communication between passengers and guards.
 MR. LEFROY  said, that the public owed his hon. Friend (Sir William Gallwey) a debt of gratitude for the part be had taken in this matter. There had, according to his own knowledge, been great complaints as to the neglect which had been shown. He was not prepared to state the number of dreadful acci-
 66
 MR. LEFROY  seconded the Motion,
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he hoped the discussion would not be longer continued, as he did not see what good end could be obtained by such a course. He trusted that the matter would be speedily disposed of, and that the House would not again be troubled with it.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, the Minute to which the hon. Gentleman referred had been received, but it had not yet been answered, and it was not usual to produce such documents before they had been answered. When the answer had been sent there would be no objection to the production of the Minute.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he had no desire to prolong the debate, but he did hope that the House would show every possible indulgence to the Committee in order to enable them to come to a satisfactory conclusion upon the subject.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that while giving the right hon. Gentleman credit for his sympathy with unfortunate passengers imprisoned in a railway carriage
 69 70
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would give notice that he should at an early day call attention to the subject on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, be would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with reference to the proceedings against Constance E. Kent and the refusal of the Reverend A. D. Wagner, Perpetual Curate of St. Paul's, Brighton; and also of a person calling herself Superioress of St. Mary Hospital, an Institution attached to that Church, to give evidence of certain facts on the ground that the same became known to the said Reverend A. D. Wagner "under the seal of confession" and to the said Superioress under some like pretence—Whether the Government will introduce any Bill this Session for the purpose of preventing such persons as the Reverend A. D. Wagner from officiating as clergymen of the Church of England and receiving the emoluments thereof; and whether the Magistrate was justified in allowing the said Reverend A. D. Wagner and the said Superioress to refuse to give evidence on such grounds?
 MR. THOMPSON  said, that the hon. Baronet had not made any suggestion as to the manner in which his object was to be carried out. He had been discreet enough not to suggest any remedy to the House, although he asserted that a remedy was easy. It certainly would be a very remarkable piece of legislation to inflict pains and penalties upon persons for not doing nobody knew what. However, he would assume that all that the hon. Baronet intended to do was to give expression to a feeling which prevailed extensively out of doors—that the railway companies were doing nothing to remedy an evil universally recognized. He thought, however, that he would be able to show that they had not been neglectful of their duty. A few months ago the Railway Clearing House appointed a Committee, composed of some of the ablest railway managers in the country. The Committee publicly invited tenders of inventions for effecting a communication between railway passengers and engine drivers, and the result was, that 196 inventions were laid before the Committee, and more than half the inventors attended in person to explain their plans. In the Report drawn up by the Committee, attention was directed to what had been done by a former Committee which had inquired into the subject in 1852 and 1853. He might observe that so good were the conclusions arrived at by that former Committee considered to be, that a Railway Commission appointed in France, in consequence of the murder of a Judge in a railway train, had reported that they were sound, and adopted them as the basis of its own recommendations to the Government. That Commission was composed of Members of the Government and the Legislature and eminent engineers, but had on it no gentleman connected with railways. It found that, in all probability, the Judge had owed his death to the footboards, which enabled a person to walk from one end of a train to the other, and thus facilitate the escape of the murderer, and consequently the Commission arrived at the conclusion that a connection by footboards was not one which afforded to passengers any great
 64 65
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Special Committee upon Armstrong and Whitworth Guns has made any Report in reference to the 12-pounders; and, if so, whether, he has any objection to lay it upon the table of the House?
 MR. PAULL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government, at the earliest possible period, to submit to Parliament a measure for the Amendment and consolidation of the Bankruptcy Laws; and, if so, whether such measure will provide for the abolition of the power of imprisonment of debtors, to compel the payment of money under any judgment or order of any Court, including Comity Courts and other Courts for the recovery of small debts?
 MR. PAULL  said, that after the answer given by the hon. and learned Gentleman he should take immediate steps to discharge the Order.
 MR. PEASE  said, it had been his lot to fill the position of a railway director for a great number of years, and he must utterly disclaim the remarks of the hon. Member for Norfolk (Mr. Bentinck) as to this question being a matter of money. He
 71
 MR. BONHAM CARTER  said, that it was, in his opinion, most important that the Members of Committees which had to
 59
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he was glad that the suggestion of the noble Lord had been accepted, but regretted that the Attorney General should have thought it necessary, as the Committee were now to re-consider the case, to dwell so strongly on all the points which he thought told against Mitchell. The hon. and learned Gentleman said that twelve or thirteen persons came before the Committee, and stated that their signatures to the petitions were forgeries, and he led the House to believe that these forgeries were committed by Mitchell. [The ATTORNEY GENERAL: Some of them But the fact was that the expert, Mr. Netherclift, when pressed with regard to the signature of Charles Eales, a clerk of the House, declined to say positively that the writing was Mitchell's, and as to Walmesley, Smith, and the Rev. Mr. Jennings, he said the signatures were not in Mitchell's handwriting. Netherclift was then asked to write down a list of the names which he thought were in Mitchell's handwriting; and not one of those persons whose names he put down as forgeries had been examined before the Committee.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he must state to the House that he should respectfully decline again to serve on the Committee.
 MR. HENNESSY : Notwithstanding he was on his trial for forgery, leading questions were put to the witnesses in Mitchell's absence, and not only when he was absent, but even when he had absolutely been ordered to withdraw. The only means Netherclift had of knowing the handwriting of Mitchell was by having certain receipts placed in his hand, for he had never seen Mitchell write, and from them he pointed out the characteristics of Mitchell's handwriting. He himself with several other Members noticed the signa-
 55 56
 MR. LAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade the following question respecting the Report made by Messrs. Robert Galloway and Thomas Gray, the officers of that Department, as to the mode of working out the Chain Cables and Anchors Act of 1864, copy of which Report was laid upon the table of the House on the 8th day of March, 1865, and which contains the following paragraph (No 13):—
 "The great majority of chain makers also object strongly to any maker being allowed to test his own cables for the purposes of giving a certificate of public proof; and many makers, who intend to go to the expense of making their machines perfect, have expressed their determination not to take out a licence, but to have all their work tested at a public machine:"
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that he considered the attacks made upon the Government and the railway companies unjust. They had taken the matter into their consideration, and had formed a plan which they believed would accomplish good, and they ought at least to have the credit of doing what they could until the plan they proposed had been tried. At present it was impossible for the guard to communicate with passengers when the train was proceeding at anything like average speed, on account of the extreme rapidity of the motion, which would render loss of life to the guard imminent were he to make any such attempt. He was sure that the company of which he was a director would most readily adopt any invention which experience should prove to be a successful one. If the plan under consideration was found to answer he had no doubt it would be carried out by the railway companies with a liberal spirit.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he was sure the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir William Gallwey) did not wish to insinuate that he was indifferent to the dangers to which passengers were exposed in the cases to which he had referred, where they expected every moment to be killed without having the power to arrest the attention of the company's servants. He sympa-
 67 bonâ fide 68
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the power of the Board of Trade, under the Chain Cables and Anchors Acts was simply to give effect to the provision, of that Act, and if any person applied for a licence for a testing machine, all that was necessary was that the Government Inspector should report that the machine was a proper one, and able to test the strength of the anchors and chains.
 47
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had
 72
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : If the hon. Gentleman will move for the papers he can have them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in answering the Question he would first of all thank the hon. Baronet for designating him as "a prominent Member of Her Majesty's Government," for he presumed that it was himself to whom the hon. Baronet alluded. He had not received the notification referred to by the hon. Baronet, and he was not quite certain that he was acquainted with its terms, lie was not aware, and he believed that his noble Friend at the head of the Government was not aware, that it meant anything more than an expression of that speculation upon the subject which generally prevailed. Ho believed that it did not rest upon the authority of any Member of the Government, and certainly not upon the authority of the "prominent Member of Her Majesty's Government" alluded to by the hon. Baronet.
 MR. COX  said, that as one of the Committee who dissented from the opinion of
 60
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether a Letter, dated Aberdeen, the 17th February, 1865, and signed by five Captains, four Lieutenants, and two Ensigns of the 1st Aberdeenshire Volunteer Rifle Corps, against the appointment of Lieutenant William Jopp, a supernumerary Lieutenant in the 10th Aberdeenshire or Inverary Rifle Corps of Volunteers, to a Majority in the 1st Aberdeenshire Rifle Corps, has been received at the War Office; and whether the Secretary of State for War has approved the supersession of the Captains of the Regiment?
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, he believed that the Committee would be perfectly ready to adopt the suggestion, as it
 54
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that Her Majesty's Government bad no intention of proposing to Parliament any Bill of the kind referred to by the hon. Member. The case to which the Question referred was one which was heard before a full bench of magistrates, and he was not aware that the magistrates did allow any witness examined before them to refuse to answer any questions which they believed to be material to the ends of justice. They received sufficient evidence to justify the committal of the prisoner for trial. If at the trial any witness refused to answer questions, the Judge who presided would deal with the case according to his discretion.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he was a Member of that Committee, and lie wished briefly to defend them from the charges of the lion, and learned Member for the King's County. He was glad that the conduct of the Committee, of which he had been a Member somewhat reluctantly, had been justified by such lion, and learned Gentlemen as the Attorney General and the lion. Member for Tiverton who had just sat down. The letter to Mr. Cole, one of the officers of that House, was identified as being in Mitchell's handwriting by one of Mitchell's own clerks. The Committee throughout the proceedings had been influenced solely by a desire to render impartial justice. Mitchell had endeavoured to evade the Committee by giving an address where he was not known. Unwelcome as the duty would be, he was ready to enter with them again into an investigation of the case, but he hoped that when their labours were concluded they would not again be treated with the same unfairness they had experienced from the lion, and learned Member for Sheffield who, before the evidence could have been known to the House, had compared their conduct to that of the Committee of Public Safety at the time of the French Revolution.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the notification issued by a Committee at Oxford promoting the re-election of a prominent Member of Her Majesty's Government that the Election will take place in the second week in July next, has been made on the authority of any Member of Her Majesty's Government?
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY , in rising to move a Resolution upon the subject of the communication between guards and passengers on railways, said, he had to complain of the inconvenience which the business of private Members suffered from the introduction at such an hour of debates like the one with which the House has just been engaged. The question was whether this communication was possible or not. He wished to ascertain from the Government whether it was practicable or not to establish direct or indirect communication between passengers and the drivers of trains. Although the Motion which he had placed upon the paper might not—considering the science and mechanical skill in the country—settle the matter with which it dealt once for all, it would at all events tend to its settlement for some time
 61 62 "That it is the opinion of this House that the safety of the public requires that, pending the Report of the Royal Commission, some immediate provision should be made for compelling railway companies to make arrangements for establishing a proper communication between guards and passengers."
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY : Will the right hon. Gentleman name a time when the scheme will be adopted?
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, the hon. Member who had just spoken had, perhaps, never heard the proverb, "Companies have no souls." They all knew that the individuals with whom they dined, and whom they met in society, were quite different persons when they became associated in corporation. They were to understand that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) was pledged that the railway companies, within a reasonable time after the result of the experiment, would find a means of communication between the drivers of engines and passengers, through the guard. The right hon. Gentleman opposite had said that the means of communication, which it was hoped would be discovered by the Railways Committee, was to be applied only to express and fast trains, which were to be brought up at the next signal station after receiving the intimation to stop. But suppose the recurrence of such an accident as that which had recently occurred between Reading and London, would the right hon. Gentleman say that the train was to continue in progress to the next station? However, after what had taken place, as the House appeared to consist mainly of railway directors, and he had therefore little chance of carrying it, he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his Motion.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, from the appearance of the House at that time, there was very little chance of the question of church rates being settled in the way proposed; at the same time if his hon. Friend
 91
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he was opposed not only to the manner in which this tax was levied, but to the tax itself, and it would be inconsistent with the views entertained upon the subject by most of those who sat on the Ministerial side of the House to agree to a measure that would, no doubt, improve the mode of imposing the tax, but which was designed to perpetuate it. It would have the same effect upon this question that the change with
 92
 MR. NEWDEGATE* : Mr. Speaker, I find that the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Charles Douglas) has given notice of his intention to oppose the second reading of this Bill, as he had done on two former occasions. The object of those Bills was the same as that for which I now ask the consideration of the House. I have referred to the records of the speeches of the hon. Baronet on these Bills, and I must say that, although they have one merit—that they were not long—their length is out of all proportion to the matter which they contain. I know not, Sir, whether the hon. Baronet wishes to imply, by this renewal of opposition, merely that he dislikes the consideration of the subject contemplated by this Bill; perhaps that is the reason why his opposition is very persevering. I remember that the hon. Baronet was once a Tory; but he now seems to have changed his party, and to have joined the Ultra-Liberal section of the House; but I am not aware of any great change in his opinions. The hon. Baronet, however, serves the purpose of a political weathercock, and shows whence the opposition to this Bill emanates. Nothing-appears to be more conspicuous than the excessive liberality of the Ultra-Liberals on some points, and their excessive illiberality upon others. It was only the other day that hon. Gentlemen of that party were anxiously supporting a Bill which would have lowered the franchise to £6 in
 75 76 77 78 "That it would be unjust and inexpedient that church rates should be abolished until some substitute for them has been supplied." 79 80 Liberator Nonconformist 81 82 83 84 85 Nonconformist "In one respect only is there any striking difference between the society of 1844 and that of 1865. That is in its name. The Conference which met in November 1853 substituted for the title of The British Anti-State Church Association,' that of 'The Society for the Liberation of Religion from State Patronage and Control.' It certainly did no harm. I will not affirm that it did much good; but unquestionably it is its later designation, or rather the abbreviated form of it, 'The Liberation Society,' that has won for it a conspicuous place in the history of the country.' 86 "Is our movement tending to narrow, sectarian, or false issues? Is not the issue—towards which it is manifestly making progress, marvellous progress—broad, national, religious? To what is this owing? Not to the transcendent wisdom of those who have been intrusted with the guidance of the society's affairs, but to the force of that irresistible current of events of which the committee had sought to take 'advantage. They have acted all along on the principle that to obey is better than sacrifice.'" "Conservative candidates everywhere express a willingness to assent to any measure which will meet the objections of its (the church rate's) opponents, without endangering the existence of the Establishment." "Under such circumstances, the work which will devolve upon the society's friends in connection with this particular object is not likely to be less arduous than it has been, They have not
 87 "The Committee do not conceal from themselves that their difficulties are likely for a time to keep pace with the activities of the supporters of the existing system," "And will increase in proportion to the extent to which the controversy passes from the region of abstract speculation into that of practical statesmanship." 88 89
 MR. HEYGATE  said, that the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) was in error when he said that no steps had been taken by the Conservative party to propose a satisfactory settlement of the church rate question. The hon. Member, he thought, must have a very short memory. In the first place, he must observe that it was not exactly the duty of the Opposition side of the House to initiate any measure on the subject, but it was rather the duty of the Government to do so. It could, not, however, be said that those on his side of the House had sat silent, and had done nothing in the matter. During the Administration of the Earl of Derby, the right hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole) had proposed a conciliatory plan, and the late right hon. Members for Preston and North Wilts (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) had also proposed a plan which, had it been met in a fair spirit by the Government opposite, and with a sincere desire to settle the question, would have done so long ago. The real truth was, that this church rate question was a valuable one for Gentlemen opposite. With regard to the present proposal, he believed that the only settlement of this question
 94
 MR. GILPIN  said, he willingly joined issue with the noble Lord who last spoke. The noble Lord said that the present state of the question of church rates was satisfactory for the interests of the Church. He was quite willing to allow the noble Lord to judge as to what was for the interest of his Church, and on that point he (Mr. Gilpin) would not pretend to give an opinion. But he disavowed for himself and for his friends the insinuation of the noble Lord that they, the Dissenters, were disposed to maintain this grievance for their own purposes. He regarded church rates as a grievance, and no settlement would be complete or satisfactory, or ought to be satisfactory, which did not provide for the entire abolition of compulsory church rates. He gave the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegato) credit for a sincere desire to settle the question on what he supposed to be equitable grounds. But hon. Members had been brought up in different schools, and he did not himself recognize the justice of his own place of worship being despoiled of its furniture for the sake of furnishing and decorating the Established Church—of his own church in Houndsditch having its furniture annually carried away on trucks to deck the Church of the noble Lord opposite.
 MR. COLLINS  observed, that there was at present no legal form of withdrawing an Objection, and he hoped that the hon. Gentleman who had charge of the Bill would endeavour, before its final passing, to supply that deficiency.
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not see the necessity for any positive enactment upon that point, but he would try to ascertain whether he could meet the wish of the hon. Member for Knaresborough.
 MR. HUNT  said, he proposed to introduce another provision in its place, and he would therefore propose that it should be negatived.
 MR. HUNT  said, that the maximum of costs at present was £1, which was obviously insufficient. The Committee which sat upon the subject last year had recommended £5; but he thought the general view of the House would be met by a maximum of £3.
 Mr. EVANS and Mr. COLLINS  were of opinion that £3 would be sufficient.
 MR. C. WYNN  said, that the two revising barristers and an election agent who were examined before the Committee of last Session held that £5 was the proper maximum.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  objected to £5 as excessive.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  would support the proposition of the author of the Bill.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  hoped the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Wynn) would divide upon the question. The time had come for putting a stop to the wholesale system of objections. Persons were often obliged to go down from London to the West Riding to defend their votes, and when they arrived there the objections were found to be frivolous and vexatious. He hoped, then, that £5 would be made the maximum.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  said, there was no necessity for the clause. The revising barristers' courts had been in existence now for upwards of a quarter of a century, and he was not aware that during that time any complaint had occurred that they had not been conducted in a proper manner, or that the officers of the court had not been treated with respect; and, therefore, there was no necessity for the introduction of the power of committal. On the other hand, it was to be remembered that revising barristers, though entitled to much respect, were most of them young and inexperienced members of the profession, and he thought the Committee should hesitate before they gave them the power of committal. No grounds had been shown for its introduction into the Bill, and he moved its omission.
 MR. COLLINS  said, the power of committal would only extend to one day. He considered that the revising barrister ought to have power to keep order in his own court.
 MR. HUNT  said, he had been requested by several revising barristers to bring this question before the Select Committee in consequence of the great difficulty they experienced in keeping order in their courts. The only way of doing so at
 101
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was opposed to the clause, and considered that the Committee should pause before they gave the power. The revising barristers in Ireland exercised other judicial functions. English revising barristers, though they generally discharged their duties well, were young and inexperienced, and the Committee should be careful in giving them the power of committal. A revising barrister would now be perfectly justified in giving a man into custody who obstructed the proceedings in his court. With regard to making long speeches, he was afraid that was a complaint that was often made of persons who made them other than in revising barristers' courts, and he thought that could hardly be made a ground for committal.
 MR. E. M. FENWICK  reminded the Committee that this clause would give the revising barrister greater power in this respect than was possessed by the magistrates. The only power the latter had was to order a constable to remove from the court any person who obstructed the proceedings. Revising barristers were many of them only of three years' standing, and he objected to their having a larger power in this respect than was possessed by the magistrates, who were generally sober-minded men of greater experience.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Select Committee had made no recommendation upon the subject, and if the clause was to be retained in the Bill it must first be altered. He thought that power to clear the court would be sufficient for all practical purposes.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the clause gave authority generally to the revising
 102
 MR. HUNT  said, that the revising barrister had no power to order a policeman to remove a person creating disturbance in his court. He should be satisfied if this Bill should give the barristers such a power. He should bring up a clause for that object.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  said, disturbance was, no doubt, often caused by the inadequate accommodation provided for the revising barrister in holding his sittings. The sheriff should be empowered to provide proper accommodation for the revising barrister while revising the list of voters.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  objected to the clause, and moved its rejection.
 MR. HUNT  supported the Clause, observing that its provisions were founded on the recommendation of the Committee.
 MR. COLLINS  also supported the clause.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  thought the clause ought to be omitted.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause, as it stood at present, did not give the objector the power of substantiating his objections by cross-examining the voters.
 MR. HUNT  said, many voters were objected to simply on the strength of their living at a great distance from the Registration Court, in the hope that they would not take the trouble to assert their rights. He proposed by the clause to give the voters power to make the necessary declaration before the nearest magistrate.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the clause was very one-sided, and was not in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there was a great difference between a mere statutory declaration, and the proposed  ex parte
 MR. WALTER  said, his recollection, as a Member of the Committee, coincided with that of the Under Secretary. There was a great difference between treating the matter as an abstract question and dealing with it practically. The desire of the Committee was to throw difficulties in the way of unscrupulous objectors, but they had not drawn up any formal clause like that now proposed. He agreed with the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire that any proposal to assimilate the declarations with the affidavits of the Court of Chancery would at once condemn the clause.
 LORD STANLEY  was of opinion that it would be extremely difficult to render the clause operative even if it were included in the Act.
 MR. HUNT  said, that he did not purpose extending the provisions of the Bill to voters in boroughs as well as in counties. He was desirous that the Bill should become law by the next registration, and he was afraid that great delay would be caused
 104
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. He thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire was not justified in the unprovoked attack which he had made upon him, and ho should decline to notice personalities; but was willing to give the hon. Gentleman credit for honesty of intention, steadiness of purpose, and a desire to do that which he believed to be just and right. The hon. Gentleman, however, must excuse him for differing altogether in opinion with him as to the utility of introducing this Bill at that stage of the last Session of a moribund Parliament. When, therefore, the hon. Gentleman gave notice of his intention to move the second reading of his Bill, he (Sir Charles Douglas) felt it equally his duty to give notice of his intention to move its rejection—thus taking precisely the same course this Session as he had adopted in the last. It appeared to him that it was the general desire and feeling of that House, as well as of those who took an interest in the question, that it should be submitted at the general election to the hustings, and that it was useless to attempt any such settlement as that now proposed in the last days of an expiring Parliament. He disclaimed any such intention as that which was imputed to him—namely, that he was threatening an hustings agitation on the subject—all he de-
 90
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  hoped the hon. Member for North Warwickshire would not put the House to the trouble of dividing on the question, as it was quite clear that neither party had the least intention of accepting his measure as a settlement of the question. A division would not represent the opinions of the House on the question. It was clear that in order to effect a compromise of this question, they must, on the one hand, satisfy the friends of the Church that the proposal would be a better arrangement than church rates; and, on the other, the great majority of those who objected to church rates. The present measure did not satisfy the friends of the Church, and would not conciliate Dissenters. It would, therefore, be a waste of time to renew the discussion of a question upon which they had had such long and such warm debates on former occasions. It had been said by the hon. Gentleman opposite that the Conservative party had made no attempt to settle this question. His hon. Friend near him (Mr. Heygate) had shown the injustice of the imputation, but he (Lord John Manners) begged to remind the House that the Conservative party had endeavoured to deal with the question in what he believed to be the only right manner—namely, by introducing a Bill on the authority of the Government. But the proposal made by the Government of Lord Derby was rejected by the very party with whom the hon. Member who made that unfounded charge acted. The measure of Lord Derby's Government on the question, was exactly that which the hon. Member had expressed his desire to see introduced. But the fact was proposals for the settlement of the question had been made by that side over and over again, and the rejection of them had always been by the friends of Dissenters. Political Dissenters were probably satisfied with the present state of the question, and as a member of the Church, he (Lord John Manners) did not regret that they had succeeded in defeating the various proposals made on the subject. By maintaining their present po-
 95
 MR. NEATE  said, he agreed with the hon. Gentleman the Member for North Warwickshire that before they abolished church rates it was necessary that a substitute should be provided, and the hon. Gentleman had done his best to do so, and had made a good, though not a successful, suggestion to meet the difficulty. The  onus
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the opponents of church rates objected to pay one farthing to the maintenance of a worship which they did not approve. The maintenance of this injustice was a harm to the cause of religion. The Nonconformists had always distinguished themselves for their loyalty to the present ruling House, it was from the party who had always supported the ecclesiastical supremacy that any danger had arisen. Neither was it with Nonconformists that the prisons were filled, but with those who were claimed as members of the Established Church. The Established Church asserted that they were the wealthiest portion of the community. Why, then, did they seek to extort from their less wealthy brethren the small sum of money required to support their own worship? But this impost was maintained not for the sake of the money but as a badge of superiority, and the Nonconformists working for this Bill asked for justice and equality.
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that as the Church had a claim on the land, the observations of the hon. Member for Knares-borough (Mr. Collins) were unjust. So far from its being tyranny towards the ratepayers, the object of the present Bill was to relieve those who considered this an obnoxious impost from its payment, and to substitute another and a better mode of raising a church rate. While he was ready to acknowledge the reasonableness of the proposal of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire, he could not vote for any measure which contained any further endowment of the Church of England, till by some means or other they should better understand what were the principles and doctrines of that Church, and by what means these doctrines could be enforced on persons receiving the emoluments of the Church. At present, when he came to consider what really was the Church of England, he was in a state of great perplexity. All sorts of strange doctrines and practices were heard of as being indulged in by clergymen professing to belong to that Church, and in one journal supposed to represent a certain section of that Church there was a weekly record of the numbers that had passed over to the Church of Rome.
 MR. LOCKE , in rising to move the second reading of the Bill, said, he was not surprised to find that its objects were but little understood, because it contained allusion to several Acts of Parliament about which very few people knew anything at all. This Bill had been objected to generally because it did not go far enough. He confessed he should like it to go farther in some respects, if it were possible to obtain the assent of Parliament to it; but if the House should assent to the second reading, there would be no difficulty in sending it before a Select Committee, where it could be made a perfectly workable measure. It was not until the 10  Geo. Anne Geo. Polly, The Beggar's Opera, Polly, Geo. Geo. Geo. 105 Geo. Vict., Geo. v. Geo. Vict.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he hoped the right hon. Member for North Warwickshire would not press the Motion to a division—if he would consent to withdraw it he would meet with the unanimous support of both sides of the House. If the hon. Gentleman went to a division, he (Mr. Collins) should be obliged to divide against him, though he should do it with reluctance. And he should do so for this reason—the hon. Gentleman had brought forward the Bill in the full belief that it would materially strengthen the Church, while he (Mr. Collins) believed it would have just the opposite result. He was opposed to the odious system of pew rents, which was nothing better than having private boxes in the Church. At present the ratepayers had the option of making or opposing a church rate, and it would be tyranny to deprive them of that power and privilege. The present system had this other advantage, that it operated as a check upon clergymen having peculiar notions, who might not otherwise be so conciliatory as they might be. It was hopeless to expect that the Bill would receive the sanction of the House, and, therefore, he hoped it would not be pressed.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  thought that the real question was, whether the minority in the country should prevent the majority from voting a church rate if it chose. At one time he had felt very desirous of having this question settled; but when he saw a minority using this question for political purposes, and not desiring to have it settled lest they should lose the advantage
 96
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, before the Question was put, he wished to say a few words on the subject. He was desirous of stating that there was no foundation whatever for the anticipation of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) that he (Sir George Grey) would oppose the Bill simply because it was brought in by a private Member sitting on the other side the House. He thought, on the contrary, it would be most unreasonable to oppose the measure on any such ground. He could assure him that there was no person to whose opinions he was ready to listen to with greater respect, being convinced that, uninfluenced by party motives, he was actuated by a sincere and earnest desire to settle this vexed question. His advice, however, to the hon. Gentleman was, to press this Bill no further upon the consideration of the House, as there appeared to be a general desire that this question of church rates, which had been made the subject of many warm debates in that House in former Sessions, should be allowed to rest as it is for the present; and it appeared to him that that would be the wisest course for the hon. Gentleman to take.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received any recent Reports relative to the investigation into the Land Tenures of Oude; and, if so, whether he is able to state the substance of such Reports, or to lay them upon the table?
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would now beg to ask the Secretary of State for In-
 115
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, there was no occasion for any such Instruction. As the law stood at present the Poor Law Board had ample power to do what the hon. Gentleman pointed at, and there was no necessity to move the Instruction of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman considers the Instruction unnecessary, because the Poor Law Board have now the power of altering the boundary of unions; but the question is, not whether the Poor Law Board has the power, but whether the Committee on this Bill would have power, without the Instruction, to do so; and in my opinion the Committee would not have that power, because the subject matter would not be relevant to the subject matter of the Bill. Therefore the hon. Gentleman (the Member for Norfolk) is in order, and rightly has precedence with his Motion, because an Instruction is not of the nature of an Amendment, but a substantive Motion. If it had been moved on the Motion that I do now leave the Chair then an Instruction would become an Amendment. The Motion would be that all the
 117
 MR. BENTINCK , in moving the Instruction, said, he had two reasons for taking exception to the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman. In the first place the Bill, as it at present stood, would prove extremely injurious in many cases to the less able and less skilled labourer. Nothing could be more injurious to the working of the Poor Laws than a Bill which should have the effect of disinclining the occupiers of land to employ, under many circumstances, those whom he would not employ, if it were not that he would otherwise have to contribute to their support in idleness. He was borne out in this view by the evidence taken before the Committee in 1847. In a memorial of the Board of Guardians of the Sleaford Union, attention was called to the proposal to substitute union for parochial settlements, and the memorialists stated their conviction I hat the parochialties and responsibilities now existing were the means of giving frequent employment to the aged and less skilled labourer, who would otherwise be thrown upon the rates. The same point was supported by the answers given to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) by competent witnesses in reference to the Nottingham Union. There was no doubt that in many parishes the rates were very much diminished, and the condition of the poor very much improved by private charity and liberality. Numbers of wealthy persons in many parishes contributed so largely to the maintenance of the poor that the rates in those parishes were very much diminished, and, the condition of the poor materially improved, and he feared that the effect of this measure would he to induce the discontinuance of that description of charity. Men could not be made charitable by Act of Parliament, and any Bill the effect of which would be to limit individual generosity would be of a most mischievous character. But his principal objection to
 118 d. s. d. 119
 MR. PACKE  seconded the Motion. He said he believed this was a piece of legislation which would rob one part of the community and put the money into the pockets of the other. There were two extremely trying cases in Norfolk, stated in the petitions presented to the House. It appeared that North Lynn and West Lynn would be sacrificed for the benefit of the commercial town of King's Lynn. Nearly the whole of one of those parishes had been taken by a gentleman. His lease was a very long one, and he took it upon the understanding that there would be no alteration with regard to the rates of the parish during the lease. But this Bill would oblige him for the remainder of his lease to pay a very enormous sum for the benefit of the merchants and traders of King's Lynn. A still stronger case was that of Macclesfield Union, which consisted of 41 parishes, 37 of which were agricultural. The silk trade of Macclesfield was subject to great depressions, and these 37 parishes, which had nothing to do with the employment of the great mass of the labouring population, would be called upon to support the distressed silk operatives of the four manufacturing parishes, in times of distress. He trusted the House would not permit a Bill of this kind to pass without further inquiry and consideration.
 MR. NEATE  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down, that it was not right to empower one party to put his hand into the pocket of another, but he contended that that was precisely what the owners of property in agricultural parishes did under the present system. He thought that it would be better to place the agricultural labourer on
 120
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that many unions contained an area of 150,000 acres, while others contained only 3,000, the number of the inhabitants of the largest being 92,000 and of the smallest 3,900. The rate in some of the parishes was as low as 6 d., s. d. s. 121 d. s.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he quite admitted that legally speaking under the existing authority the Poor Law Board had the power to enlarge, diminish, or alter a union, hut this was a power which was most difficult to carry into effect. He could state from his own experience an instance where two or three parishes had been added to a union against their will and to their great disadvantage, and they had no means of disuniting themselves, because the majority bound the minority. He therefore thought it highly necessary that at the outset of this debate the House should move the proposed Instruction to the Committee that the area of unions should be carefully considered. In a paragraph of his letter which followed that which had already been cited Sir E. Head stated that, in his opinion, the safer and practical course for giving effect to a plan of this description would be that the several parishes should for the next seven years contribute to the union fund in proportion to their respective expenditure for the last seven; that at the end of that period the guardians should be required to make a union rate upon a fair and equal valuation, and that for another period of seven years the contributions of the parishes should be regulated according to a ratio compounded equally of the past average and the union rate. It was clear, therefore, that Sir E. Head thought that this question required more consideration than appeared to have been given to it by those who had prepared this measure. It was impossible not to approve of many of the objects for which the Bill had been framed. The diminution of the practice of removal and the practical abolition of the law of settlement would be extremely beneficial. But he should add that cases of removal, as far as he had observed, had of late almost wholly disappeared. When he first became Chairman of the Quarter Sessions in his county, some seventeen years since, those cases formed frequent subjects of complaint and inquiry; but they were now scarcely ever heard of. It was a mistake to think that the large proprietors
 122 s. d. s. d.
 MR. C. E. EGERTON  said, that the present law operated most unequally and unfairly. The Union of Macclesfield comprised forty-one parishes; and three of these, which were town parishes, paid a poor rate of 4 s. d. s. d.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, that he was as much opposed to the principle of this Bill as he was to that of the Act of 1861, and he had presented many petitions against it. In one of them, which came from the Tynemouth Union, consisting of twenty-four parishes or townships, it was stated that, while the rates of agricultural parishes, some of them situated at a distance of thirteen miles from the towns of North Shields or Tynemouth, would be seriously increased under this Bill, the rates of those two places would be greatly diminished. There was, for instance, one rural parish which would have to pay £1,130, instead of £759, which was the average amount of its present charge. The Town of North Shields, on the other hand, which was situated at a distance of thirteen miles from that rural parish, would have its poor rate reduced from £3,628 to £2,680. In the Union of Berwick-upon-Tweed the operation of the measure would be precisely similar, and the figures which he
 123
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, there was an amount of prejudice against the measure of the Government which was not justified by the circumstances. There was no reason for the outcry which had been raised against it. On the other hand, it would appear from the arguments of some hon. Gentlemen that the towns were very heavily taxed while the rural districts were very lightly taxed for the relief of the poor, but such was not the case. Taking the large towns generally it would be found to be otherwise. The whole county of Lancaster was rated at 1 s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d., s. d. s. d., s. d., d. s. d., s. d., s. d., 124
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that one preliminary to this Bill, at all events, should be the re-adjustment of the boundaries of some of the existing unions. The opponents of the Bill had been charged with bringing into collision the interests of town and country parishes, but that collision, which had been so justly deprecated, was not attributable to the opponents of the measure, but to the immature condition of the Bill itself. It was one of the great faults of the measure that it brought these interests into collision from not having first made this preliminary adjustment. The Bill had been brought forward too hastily and inconsiderately. It had been stated, as sufficient excuse for letting town rates spread over country parishes in union with them, that the towns were more heavily rated than the rural parishes, but if the creation of greater wealth in the towns was attended at the same time by more poverty, it was fair that the greater wealth should support the attendant poverty created by itself. The hon. Member for Macclesfield had stated that he should support the Bill because he was an advocate for the abolition of the law of settlement, he wished to see poverty relieved wherever it occurred; but the object which the hon. Gentleman desired to see effected was precisely the one which the Bill signally failed to make any provision for. The Bill did not provide for the support of the poverty by the parishes where that poverty was found to exist. It left unions of incongruous areas, so as to inflict the charge of town poverty on a wholly dif-
 125
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had risen before to make a suggestion, that inasmuch as the purpose of several of the Amendments on the paper appeared to be the same—namely, to obstruct the passage of the Bill—they should at least take the Amendments in their order, and consider the purpose which they professed to be intended to serve. The Amendment now before the House had a distinct object—"to facilitate in certain cases the alteration of the limits of existing unions." That was the professed object of the Amendment, but hardly a word had been said upon that subject. The discussion bad been entirely on the merits of this measure. He meant that there had not been shadowed out in any way any provision or measure by which it was proposed to facilitate the
 126 Vict, Vict, 127
 MR. ADDERLEY : I spoke the language of the petition of the guardians of those parishes.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that if he was in error, he would be very ready to admit it; but he had received communications which had induced him to make the statement he had just made. He had received one communication from Mr. Wyvill, the Poor Law Inspector of the district, an old and experienced servant of the Board. He could not consent to the Instruction proposed by the hon. Gentleman, because he did not know what powers were intended to be conferred, nor did he think that it was at all necessary to subtract from unions every parish which might have to pay something more than it had paid before. As he questioned the accuracy of one statement that had been made, he would also refer to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Haverfordwest (Mr.
 128
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, if the Poor Law Board possessed the authority it was very disinclined to use it. Now-a-days there was the greatest indisposition to allow localities to manage their own affairs. The Poor Law Board were not willing to make those alterations even when the whole of the guardians were in favour of them. He had received a letter from a gentleman who had for seventeen years been chairman of the Bedminster Union, which stated that though the rural parishes of that union were only united with
 129 130
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board was by no means justified in the tone which he had adopted in reference to the proposition before the House, or in the statement that it had been brought forward with the view of obstructing the passing of the Bill. Such observations would not facilitate the passing of the Bill, lie, for one, should certainly vote for the proposition, which he considered a fair one, and one of his reasons for doing so was the confidence which he, in common with the right hon. Gentleman, placed in the opinion of Sir Edmund Head. So disposed was the right hon. Member to rely on that opinion that he had sent him the pamphlet of Sir Edmund Head, to which allusion bad been made by the hon. Member for Haverfordwest, and he deemed it but just to the writer to say that while he ably and successfully advocated union rating, he did so upon two grounds—the first being that it ought to be carefully and gradually introduced, and the second—which the right hon. Gentleman had passed over in complete silence—that before union charge-ability was adopted that change in the law ought to be preceded by a revision of the boundaries of unions. It was, he would observe, hardly ingenuous on the part of the right hon. Gentleman while referring to one portion of the pamphlet to make no allusion to the other. He had, he might add, every reason to believe that the authority of Sir Edmund Head was in favour of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for West Norfolk, and he was happy to find that so eminent an authority as the late Mr. Charles Buller had also been in favour of the revision of Union boundaries. For himself, he had always been an advocate of the principle of union rating, and he believed a great mistake was made by the close parishes when they drove labour away. It must, however, be borne in mind that the extension of the area of rating could not be effected without at the same time causing a very great change in the incidence of taxation throughout the country, and it was therefore the duty of the right hon. Gentleman to do everything in his power towards making the change fall as lightly as possible on the ratepayers.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that it was not denied that there were great inequalities in the area of unions—greater than any that existed in the area of parishes. It was evident that the Poor Law Board admitted the necessity of some alteration of the limits of unions. Now these alterations of the limits of union must necessitate the transfer of a considerable number of parishes from one union to another in which the amount of the rates were probably very different. Thus this transfer of parishes involved the question whether some parishes should pay 5 s. d.
 MR. CLIFFORD  said, that the town parishes might be injured by this Bill, and therefore they regarded it with aversion, but the agricultural parishes would be benefited by it.
 MR. THOMPSON , who had given notice of his intention to move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, said, the large majority by which the Bill passed the second reading had decided the question of principle, and pledged the House to the adoption of union instead of parochial rating. It was, therefore, highly desirable that the Bill, before passing, should be rendered a well considered and comprehensive measure, needing as little alteration as possible. Looking at it from this point of view, the question to which he wished to call attention was the question
 132 133 134 onus probandi 135 136
 MR. FERRAND  said, that as he found he could not consistently with the rules of that House bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice as a substantive question, he begged to second the Motion just made by the right hon. Member for Whitby (Mr. Thompson), than whom he believed no hon. Gentleman was better qualified to deal with that subject as it affected the agricultural interest. It was an extraordinary circumstance that, in the speech in which he moved the second reading of the Bill, the President of the Poor Law Board (Mr. C. P. Villiers) never once alluded to the manufacturing districts. He had listened attentively to the right hon. Gentleman, expecting that he would have justified the introduction of this measure into the manufacturing districts of the north of England; but the right hon. Gentleman did nothing of the kind, although he could deliver a long speech full of bitterness towards the agricultural interests and the parochial system. In consequence of that omission, he (Mr. Ferrand) had felt it his duty to place on the papers of the House the notice of Motion which he found it was now incompetent for him to bring forward. The statement he was about to make would have fully justified him in proposing that Motion, and if he now showed it to be grounded on substantial facts, a strong case would also be made out for referring that Bill to a Select Committee. His notice of Motion was as follows:—
 "The poor rates in aid of manufacturing wages have been and are still systematically levied in the manufacturing districts on agriculture, with the sanction of the Poor Law Board, whereby the burdena on land are grievously increased, and the worst features of the old Poor Law are maintained. That the Union Chargeability Bill will greatly extend the area of this unjust taxation, impose ruinous burdens upon agriculture for the benefit of manufacturers, and create serious discontent." 137 138 "There was a lamentable need of all those requirements which, according to our modern views
 139 Leeds Intelligencer 140 "Parish allowance is far worse than any dole of private charity; because it is more likely to be abused; because it is more certain in its nature, because it is better known, more established—because it approaches in the mind of the poor to the idea of a right. This terrible system has led, among other evil consequences, to the Act of 1796, which provided for the relief of the poor in their own houses, and was, in fact, the introduction of the allowance scheme—a scheme which provided for the partial payment of wages out of the poor rates, and which in its operation has been productive of all the worst mischief that might have been expected from such a source.… I will not say that many farms have been actually abandoned. I will not say that many parishes have been wholly given up to waste for want of occupants—(I know that there are instances of farms here and there, and of one parish in the county of Bucks, I think, which has been reduced to this state)—I will not say that as yet the system has so worked as to lay waste any considerable portion of territory. That it has a direct and necessary tendency to do so; that unless its progress be arrested it must go on till it gain that point—that before long we must reach the brink of the precipice towards which we are hurrying with accelerated rapidity; that the circumstance of one parish being thrown out of cultivation inevitably and immediately tends to lay three or four others waste, and that this devastation, gathering strength as it proceeds, must needs cover the land. Of these facts no man who consults the body of evidence before your Lordships can entertain the shadow of a doubt. Stand where we are we cannot."—[3  Hansard, 141 s. s. s. d. s. s. s., s. 142 s., s. s. s. s. d. "Rules of relief in Keighly Union—Able-bodied paupers, as regards relief given by the Guardians when out of work is a little varied, but, as a rule, 2 s. s. d.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the hon. Gentleman knew he did not refuse; he knew who did refuse the information, and he had the letter in his hand.
 MR. FERRAND  was going to read the Return which had been drawn up in the right hon. Gentleman's own office. The right hon. Gentleman had allowed a Return of the amount paid in relief of the poor, in maintenance and out-relief, distinguishing the classes of persons relieved; but why was the relief paid in aid of wages not given? It was because the right hon. Gentleman knew that the adoption of such a system was illegal; and that the foul blot of relief in aid of wages was fixed upon the north of England to a greater extent than it ever had been upon the south. The right hon. Gentleman was quite right in saying that this part of the Return was refused by the Boards of Guardians, and what did the clerk of one of the unions (Bradford) say? He said that the applications for relief were contained in about 150 books, each comprising about 200 pages, and this extended over the period to which the Return moved for applied, fourteen years. The clerk of the Keighley Union said that the Guardians
 143 144 Standard, 145 146 147
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, there was this difference between the former and present state of things adverted to by the hon. Member for Devonport, that while many years ago there was a strong feeling amongst the poor that their interests would be injured by the change proposed in the operation of the law, they now believed, on the contrary, that they would be benefited. The hon. Member, who directed his arguments chiefly to the effect of the Bill on the manufacturing districts, asserted, first, that a certain agricultural district in the neighbourhood of which they both resided would be more heavily taxed under the proposed Bill, and, secondly, that the increase would be the more unfair, because, he said, it was the practice to give relief in aid of wages. At the second reading the hon. Member told him that he (Mr. W. E. Forster) had an agricultural constituency. He presumed that the hon. Member had since found out that such was not the case. The union of Bradford was the borough of Bradford and consisted of a manufacturing population. The hon. Member stated that of the six townships
 148 149 150 "To the insufficient quantity and miserable quality of the house accommodation generally had by our agricultural labourers, almost every page of Dr. Hunter's Report bears testimony. And gradually for many years past the state of the labourer in these respects has been deteriorating—house room being now greatly more difficult for him to find, and, when found, greatly less suitable to his means, than perhaps for centuries has been the case. Especially within the last twenty or thirty years the evil has been in very rapid increase, and the household circumstances of the labourer are now in the highest degree deplorable." "An extraneous element weights the balance heavily against him, and he loses the fair chances of free trade. The element to which I refer is the influence of the Poor Law in its provisions concerning settlement and chargeability. Under this influence each parish has a pecuniary interest in reducing to a minimum the number of its resident labourers; for, unhappily, agricultural labour, instead of implying a safe and permanent independence for the hard-working labourer and his family, implies for the most part only a longer or shorter circuit to eventual pauperism." "During the whole circuit is so near that any illness or temporary failure of occupation necessitates immediate recourse to parochial relief; and thus all residence of agricultural population in a parish is glaringly an addition to its poor rates." "One of the most powerful causes of insufficient cottage accommodation is the system of close and open villages, a system which prevails through all the Midlands and East of England, and which is doing much mischief by its operation on the quality, quantity, and locality of cottages. It is a hiding
 151 "No farmer of a neighbouring parish will tempt a man with children to disturb his parish settlement, for fear of throwing him on the common charges. The man himself, although he knows that he might find work thirty miles off on a railway or great public work at 2 s. d. "Much attention should be given to those notes. It has been stated with too much boldness, and the statement is universally accepted, because agreeable (no doubt it is true within the limits of the words in which it is put), that the agricultural labourers of England have not diminished in number in the past thirty years. But, though this be true, how different is the whole truth! The agricultural labourers remain within England; they are in the towns. It is the rural labourers who are being swept away, and many people, deceived by confusing the terms, have applied the deceptive solace to a suspicion of something going on wrong." 152 153 154
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board that this Bill would remove the anomaly and grievance of close parishes, and he should be glad to assist the right hon. Gentleman in getting rid of it, but he felt that it was a measure that could not be hurriedly carried into execution. They must not forget that the close parishes had arisen from a system which had been in use for many centuries, and that persons interested in these parishes had inherited the property they enjoyed in them from generation to generation, or had purchased it under that system, and that, therefore, to make any sudden change would be to create considerable variation in the value of the property which they possessed. The discussion which had taken place had induced him to believe that to make the proposed change without its being connected with other concurrent measures would be to inflict great hardships on the rural parishes in unions with manufacturing parishes, as had been exemplified in the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Macclesfield (Mr. Egerton). According to the hon. Gentleman's statement four manufacturing
 155
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that the hon. Member for Whitby had given four or five
 156 onus 157 s. s. d., s. d. s., s. d. s. d. The Times 158
 MR. KNIGHT  said, it seemed to him, that although the battle upon that question had been hitherto fought upon strong grounds, the strongest ground for opposing a union rating had not as yet been taken up. The only experience of a Poor Law in the world, with the small exception of Denmark, was in England; and if they wished to ascertain the probable results of any great change in regard to this subject they must look to the past history of the English Poor Law. He thought that history thoroughly established this fact, that no forced charity, by means of a Poor Law, could be worked successfully over any areas of chargeability except the areas of natural charity—areas in which the rich and the poor were known to each other., and in which the money was paid by those persons to whom, without a Poor Law, the poor would naturally turn for help in the hour of need. They would find that there had been repeated instances, extending from the first commencement of our Poor Law to the present generation, of large areas of chargeability having been tried—the result having been, in every instance, a reduction of these areas of rating from the proved impossibility of working them; and he felt quite certain, if this Bill passed, and large areas were again established in England, that the moment a real pressure came upon the rates those areas would be found perfectly unworkable, whilst the greatest confusion and misery would arise, and they would have to be reduced again to the areas of natural charity. When employment was pressing upon labour—when men could
 159 "The inhabitants of certain northern counties and of many other counties in England and Wales, by reason of the largeness of the parishes within the same, have not, nor cannot reap the benefits of the Poor Law of Elizabeth;" 160 "Endeavoured to compose them of single properties, or groups of properties, in order that the stimulus and individual interest might be exerted for the improvement of the country and the condition of the people." "We found, as a general rule, that the largest town divisions were usually those in which the greatest pressure existed.…And we had little doubt that injustice was done to the more distant rural portions of those electoral divisions, by the support being thrown upon them of the persons who swelled the population of the towns. From this we endeavoured to liberate them, by confining the electoral division to the space benefited by its proximity to the town, and we departed from the parish boundaries, when by doing so we could make the town more central.…The areas, accordingly, attached to towns, will generally be found to be limited to lands within a circuit of one or two miles, and, so far as has been practicable, coterminous with the boundaries of properties.…In support of our general view of reducing the town areas, we may state, that we find the principal towns in the north of Ireland, as Londonderry, Belfast, and others, with very small areas; in the case of Londonderry, only 767 acres; while the rates on those towns have been moderate. In fact the very magnitude of the rateable district has been represented to us, and with great apparent reason, as one of the causes which has led to the present pressure on the rates, from the laxity which has been introduced by it, and not only as having caused it, but as likely to be ruinous in the end to the towns themselves." 161 162 "The subject of rating is beset with difficulty as far as Norwich is concerned, for its parishes are already united for the support of the poor, and whatever advantages are to be derived from the union system, it is now in the possession of. This system is found to be wholly inadequate as a remedy for the evils of which Norwich complains, and it is, therefore, no matter of surprise that the ratepayers should look to a national rate as their only hope of deliverance from the very heavy burden under which they are suffering." 163 164 165 166 d., s., seriatim 167 168 55, 169 170
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, that as the House had refused to hear the last speaker, he now begged to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. RICHARD LONG  seconded the Motion for the adjournment, seeing that the debate had now (half-past eleven) been continued for nearly seven hours.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  thought it a rather strong measure for the hon. Baronet to come there at a late hour—for he had not seen him in the House before—and at once propose the adjournment of the debate. They had been busily discussing that mat-
 171
 MR. HENLEY  said, that like the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) he had been present during the whole of the debate, and he must say it was impossible for anybody to attempt to speak in the state in which the House had been without any endeavour that he had seen on the part of the Government to keep order. If the hon. Baronet had not risen to move the adjournment he would have moved it himself. He wanted to speak on the question, and the course which the debate had taken made it the more necessary that somebody should speak, because a great deal of fresh matter had been introduced. But it required a hardy man to attempt to speak when it was perfectly certain that not one word would be heard. The only way in which a minority could protect themselves when the majority did not exert themselves to preserve decent order, was by moving the adjournment. Considering how thin the House had been, hardly a man, he believed, could recollect such a scene as they had had for the last half hour.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was sure the House would listen willingly to the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire.
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, that when the hon. Member for Worcestershire (Mr. Knight) addressed the House he naturally was compelled to go into details at considerable length—["Order, order!"]—and he was met by the greatest interruption he ever recollected being offered in that House between the hours of eleven and twelve. His speech was, consequently, considerably shortened. As the House had thereby been entirely prevented from giving its attention to what an old official had to say upon the subject, he thought the hon. Baronet was right in moving the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LYGON  said, although he had not been present during the whole of the debate, he had been in the House a sufficient time to appreciate the injustice that had been done to the arguments of his hon. Colleague. He had also been able to appreciate the strong exertions which the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair had made to preserve the impartiality of debate. He therefore moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. FERRAND  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not exactly understand the purport of the observations of the lion. Member who has just sat down, but I must say that I observed that Gentlemen on the other side of the House have shown considerable impatience during the course of the debate as well as those on this side. ["No, no!" "Hear, hear!"]
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, the interruptions which had taken place had been of a most unseemly character. ["Oh, oh!"] He begged leave to differ entirely from the right hon. Gentleman, as the unseemly interruptions appeared to him to come exclusively from the Government Benches. ["Oh, oh!" Hear, hear!"]
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, that one of the most disorderly Members in the House was a Member of the Government. ["Hear, hear!" "No, no!"  and cries of
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  observed, that if the hon. Member for South Northamptonshire and some few of his Friends chose to persevere in these Motions for adjournment they all knew what was the power of a small majority in such a case. Under these circumstances, he would agree to the adjournment of the debate. [ Cries of
 MR. DISRAELI  thought it was much to be regretted, and it was also matter of surprise, that on a subject like the one which had been under consideration such a scene should have taken place as had occurred in the House that night; and he must, after the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the leader of the House say, with the greatest respect for him,
 173
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as the Question had now come back to its original position, he would move the adjournment of the debate, which Motion, he believed, the Government were ready to agree to. [ Cries of and
 SIR GEORGE GREY  agreed to the Motion, as he thought it impossible to proceed further with the discussion at present.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the communications which have passed between Her Majesty's Government and the Commissioners from Canada has led to any change of view respecting the amount to be expended on fortifications in our North American Colonies?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he wished to ask, in reference to the subject which had just been mentioned by the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone), whether the £1,000,000, which was to be expended in building the steam transports to convey troops to India was to be charged upon the Indian Revenue or in the home expenditure?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the cost of building these transports would be defrayed by the Indian Government. The annual charge would be defrayed by the Indian and Home Governments in proportion to the services rendered.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, the expense would be borne exactly in the proportion to the services performed.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, the subject of transport of troops to India had long engaged the attention of the Government of India, who had recommended that if possible the overland route should be adopted. The result of inquiries that had been instituted was to show that the transport of troops to India, taking into consideration the time gained during which the service of the troops would be available, could be effected at a less cost than under the present system. It was, therefore, proposed to establish lines of transports to Alexandria and from Suez to India. The number of transports at present proposed would not be adequate for the conveyance of all the troops it was necessary to send to India, but it was intended in the first instance to build five transports. The Admiralty had been consulted upon the subject, and upon their advice the transports would be of large size, and would cost something under £200,000 each, or altogether, including the cost of landing vessels, rather more than £1,000,000. There could not be the least doubt that those vessels would soon save their cost, and that their use would lead not only to economy, but to an improvement in the health of the troops. The service would be performed in accordance with the recommendations of a Committee which had considered the subject, and of the Admiralty. The vessels on this side of Egypt would be employed for three-fifths of each year in the conveyance of troops to India, and during the remaining two-fifths of the year they would be available for the general transport service of the Admiralty. Arrangements would be made that troops proceeding to India should pass through the Red Sea, between the commencement of October and the end of March, thus avoiding the hot season. The vessels in India would be employed during the same period in corresponding duties, and during the remainder of the year they would be employed in conveying troops from one part of the Indian coast to another and between India and the colonies.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, the noble Lord was aware that whatever rights had existed would be preserved. He had made inquiries for the purpose of ascertaining to what extent the investigation had been going on under the direction of the officers appointed for that purpose, and who were as impartial as men could be. He had received no public Reports upon the subject, but as far as private communications went the purport of them was in accordance with the views of the noble Lord that very few claims to occupancy had been established.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that as soon as the communications referred to had arrived at any result no time would be lost in making them known to the House. In the meantime it would not be desirable to make any statement upon the subject.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, in reference to a paper quoted by him, Whether he is prepared to state in what manner, and upon what principle, the price or value of Foreign Wine is estimated or ascertained upon the payment of the Customs Duty upon importation?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the question was one of considerable importance, but the answer he had to give had nothing in it peculiar to the case of foreign wines. The system organized in this country for ascertaining the value of imports, with great advantage as far as accurate knowlege was concerned, had nothing to do with the payment of the Customs Duty, because the Customs Duty had no reference to the value, and if it had the probability was the value upon which the duty was paid would be different from the true value of the commodity. The object of the system was to give, as far as possible, the true value of the articles brought into the country, and the mode in which this was done might be laid before the House by the publication of the various memoranda issued by the Customs Department, and it was clearly described by the following extract:—
 "In the case of the more numerous and more considerable articles which are entered at the Custom House by quantity alone, the value exhibited in the statistical record is obtained by a process of computation which combines the quantity with the average form of the several commodities. The average prices are supplied by the Inspector of Imports and Exports, in part by some of the leading merchants and brokers in the City of London, and in part by three gentlemen who have the special office of watching the course of the markets, who receive a fixed remuneration from the Treasury, and who collect such prices in the ports of London, Liverpool, and Hull respectively." 114
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to know, whether the expense was to be borne by the Indian Government?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Why the third instalment of the Delhi Prize Money has not been paid according to the recommendation of the Prize Committee, and when it will be paid?
 MAJOR KNOX : I wish to ask the hon. Member for Swansea, Whether he intends to bring the Question of the Irish Church on again this Session?
 MAJOR KNOX : I will now ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he intends to give a day for so important a Question?
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he entirely sympathized with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the embarrassing position in which he was placed by Motions of that description. He had received no communication from any Postmaster on the subject, but the present proposal was so exceptional a one that he felt bound to give it his support. The increase which
 201
 MR. PEEL  said, it would be establishing a very bad system for our public servants, were we to pay them according to the amount of surplus realized by the office in which they were engaged, instead of according to the value of their services. The proposition of the hon. Member who moved the Resolution seemed reasonable enough—namely, that, if additional duties were thrown upon a class of public servants, they ought to receive additional remuneration. The principle involved in that
 202 s. 203 204
 SIR RICHARD BULKELEY  said, he was glad the subject had been brought forward, as it appeared to him the Postmasters in several instances were not sufficiently remunerated. He wished also to call attention to the inconvenience and delay which were often experienced in Post Offices where there was only one clerk to perform all the duties of the office, and expressed a hope that such a state of things would be remedied.
 MR. BROMLEY  said, it was a mistake to suppose that these Westminster Improvements had been any benefit to the poorer classes, though they might have benefited another class. He knew of his own personal knowledge that that was not the case. The classes who had been displaced were not the classes which inhabited Mr. Gibbs's lodging-house. They had disappeared altogether. There certainly was no part of London where greater injustice had been done to the working classes by the removal and the destruction of their dwellings.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, he rose to call attention to the position of the Civil Assistants on the Ordnance Survey, and to ask the Under Secretary of State for War upon what grounds the principle of classification adopted in the Irish Valuation and other Government Offices is denied to this Department of the Public Service. Seeing the increase that had taken place in the cost of articles of consumption he thought that the Government would, before long, have to take into consideration the remuneration of the civil servants of the State with the view to increase it. But the grievance to which he wished at present to call attention was that the system of classification which existed in the War Office, Admiralty, and in other Departments, and by which promotion was regulated, did not extend to the civil assistants of the Ordnance survey. They complained that they were placed under the control of military officers who had the power of promoting them or not. A private sapper might be placed over several intelligent men in the civil service, and those persons depended upon an increase of pay on the caprice or whim of the military officer placed over them. The best way to get rid of the grievance would be to adopt a regular scale of pay, and to
 212 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, there was no analogy whatever between the position of the civil assistants in the Ordnance Survey Office and the clerks in those other public offices to which the hon. and learned Member had referred. He quite admitted that those assistants were very meritorious persons; but many of them were artizans and workmen, and there was no reason why the principle of classification should be extended to them. He had no very accurate knowledge of the duties of the Irish Valuation Office, still he knew enough to show that they were of a very different character from those now under contemplation. In the first place, the Irish Office was not an office superintended by military authority; it was conducted entirely by civil  employés, employés 214
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he must express his surprise and regret at the response that had been given by the noble Lord to the appeal which had been so well and so ably put by the hon. and learned Member for Southampton. The noble Lord relied on the same argument that he had used when last called upon to defend this grievance—he declined to concede the benefit of classification upon the allegation that it would prove prejudicial to the public service. He admitted that classification worked admirably for the public service in the Customs, Inland Revenue, Treasury, and other public Departments, but declined
 215 216
 MR. COWPER  said, it had been the desire of the Government to place the various expenses of each Department, as far as possible, together in the same Estimate. The item for the Geological Museum had, therefore, been transferred to the Science and Art Department, and also the items for the furniture of the museums. With respect to the Tower of London, the portion for the expenses of which a sum was asked in this Vote did not come under the control of the military department, but, being a portion of an ancient palace, was managed by the Office of Works. With regard to Chelsea Hospital, although it was in one sense a military establishment, it had always been treated differently from such purely military buildings as barracks. The building was occupied by the Commissioners of Chelsea, and the cost of repairs came properly under this Vote.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he did not deny that the parks were very tastefully kept, but thought that every Member not actually connected with the metropolis ought to look with the greatest jealousy at this expenditure, and he should like to have an explanation of the circumstances under which they appeared on the Votes. Five additional parks had "cropped up" of late years. Battersea Park was one of them. It was understood that its expenses would be paid by the inhabitants and out of some fund mentioned at the time it was opened. Kennington and Victoria were also now parks. No doubt the arrangement and management of them all were admirable, but he wished to know how much each contributed to the Treasury.
 MR. COWPER  said, he agreed with the hon. Member for Buckingham (Sir Harry Verney) that it would be very desirable to enable carts and omnibuses as well as cabs to go across from Bayswater to Kensington during the day and night, provided that object could be attained without any sacrifice of the pleasure and enjoyment of the parks. The matter was thoroughly discussed in 1862—the Exhibition year—when it was proposed to make a sunken road across Kensington Gardens, and strong objections were urged against making a gash, as it was called, across Kensington Gardens. The reception which the proposal met with was not an encouragement to repeat it. That scheme, however, was much less objectionable than that now proposed by the hon. Baronet, which was to have two tunnels or sunken roads, one on each side of the bridge. One would have to pass under Rotten Row, and would make a disagreeable feature in that part of the park. His hon. Friend had pointed out the disadvantage to which Rotten Row was exposed by not leading anywhere; and, no doubt, it would be very desirable if Rotten Row could be prolonged round the outskirts of Kensington Gardens. It had been considered, and was feasible, but he was not prepared to do anything at present. If the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Dunne) had studied the Estimates more carefully, he would have seen that there were no new parks. Battersea Park was fifteen years old. The expenses of making it were defrayed out of a loan of money made by the Public Works Commissioners, and would be repaid in the course of time. When the land set apart round the park for building purposes was built upon there
 246
 MR. COWPER  said, that all the Royal parks contributed something to this amount, though not one of them was self-supporting, When they came to the Votes
 247
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, they paid much more money than they got back.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that the £99,000 was all for the metropolis, with the exception of £2,000 for Holyrood Palace. There was nothing for Ireland in the Vote, though there was a magnificent park of between 6,000 and 7,000 acres in extent, close to Dublin, and though the Government were at this moment about to make a gross infringement on the public rights by handing over the Curragh of Kildare to the War Department.
 MR. COWPER  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that after the discussion last year respecting the remuneration of Mr. Herbert a Commission was appointed to consider the whole subject of remuneration for the wall paintings. That Commission recommended that the payment of Mr. Herbert for "Moses delivering the Law on Mount Sinai" should be raised to £5,000; and it also recommended that the agreements for those wall paintings should be cancelled, as they were inapplicable to present circumstances. The Government had acted on these recommendations, and were prepared to propose to Parliament the Vote now necessary in order to raise the payment for "Moses delivering the Law on Mount Sinai" to £5,000. They had asked Mr. Herbert what sum he should expect to receive for his next picture, "The Judgment of Daniel," and he named £4,000, which sum the Government were advised would be a proper one to give him; accordingly, an agreement had been entered into with Mr. Herbert for that amount. The design for this picture had been approved by the Fine Arts Commission, and was a fine composition, and there was every reason to hope that the next picture would equal the former in power, and expression, and impressiveness. Mr. Macliso had nearly finished his picture, and would shortly be entitled to receive payment, which was to be raised from £3,500, as it stood under the original agreement, to £5,000. The future paintings of Mr. Cope and Mr. Ward were to be raised by £100 each, according to the recommendation of the Fresco Commissioners, and each picture would in future be made the subject of a distinct agreement. The sum proposed for completing the clock tower and New Palace Yard was intended to be spent in this way:—The side of the clock tower which was now imperfect would have the same front as the sides towards Westminster Bridge and towards the river. It was proposed to take advantage of the higher level of
 249
 MR. COWPER  said, the Fine Arts Commission had estimated for eight pictures, but Government were unwilling at present to commit themselves for that number. The last agreement was for the picture of "The Judgment of Daniel;"
 250
 MR. COWPER  said, that the room in the Lords where "The Judgment of Daniel" was to be placed required by the Peers, who could not give it up to enable Mr. Herbert to paint the wall; the only alternative therefore open to him was to paint on canvas and carry it into the room after being completed. Mr. Herbert, who was the best judge of what his pencil could execute, had told him that the new painting would exectly harmonize in colour, tone, light and general appearance with that now on the wall. The Government had not objected to the station of the Metropolitan Railway, but to the railway taking possession of the tunnel from Palace Yard. The station would be not in Palace Yard, as was proposed, but opposite the tower, on the other side of Bridge Street.
 251
 MR. COWPER  said, that they would be in the Tudor, not in the Gothic style.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the large amount of gas consumed had been already brought under his notice. Dr. Percy, under whose superintendence the Houses were lighted and warmed, had been making a careful measurement of the amount consumed, and they were rather surprised at the office to find how much gas was used in the private residences. The attention of the occupiers of the private residences had been called to the fact, and a considerable saving had already been effected. He had no doubt that next year they would be able to make a further reduction.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the chief expense connected with the crypt at present was incurred in lighting it with gas, and the gasburners would be expensive, as they were obliged to be in harmony with the rest of the structure. He could not say exactly what the restoration had cost, as it was included in contracts for the whole building; the stone work had been calcined in the fire, and had required to be renewed. He should say that a sum of
 252
 MR. COWPER : It is a place of worship, and I presume it will be used as such.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the hon. Member need not have the slightest fear respecting the boilers, as Mr. Fairbairn had reported as to their entire safety, and had undertaken to keep them in order. He was sorry if the drowsiness of hon. Members were attributable to the ventilation, but everything possible should be done to supply pure air and to prevent hon. Members feeling any unpleasant effects from bad ventilation.
 MR. COWPER  said, in answer to a question, that the buildings in Doctors' Commons stood in the way of the proposed new street from the Mansion House to Blackfriars, and would have to be pulled down. No expense would be immediately occasioned by pulling them down, because the Metropolitan Board of Works, which would purchase the property, would be bound to supply another registry, to which the deeds would be transferred until they could be removed together with the whole of the probate registers to one building in the proposed new courts of justice. Then the site of that registry would be for sale, when owing to the opening of the new street it would be more valuable.
 MR. COWPER  said, that one complete design had been made of the whole building, and this Vote would enable one wing and also a tower to be completed. The reason for proceeding with the tower in preference to the other parts was because it would give them a reservoir for water, which would be available against any outbreak of fire in the buildings in Rolls Court.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was glad to hear the hon. Member admit, although he said the Government could not construct a bridge that required any skill, that Westminster Bridge was a handsome structure. He declined to be responsible for what the hon. Member termed "the Government grooves," or trams on the bridge, because from the beginning he thought it a mistake to place them in the middle of the road, and they were now being removed to the sides. His motive for not at once insisting on the correction of the mistake of the engineer in that respect was, that it would have delayed the opening of the structure to the public. The present Vote would cover all the expenses that could be incurred for these alterations. The change in the level was required through Mr. Page the engineer not having strictly adhered to the Parliamentary plan. It would be very desirable that the parishes should undertake to pay for the cleansing and lighting of the bridge, but they could not easily be induced to do so. The answer of the parishes on that point was, that since its erection the bridge had been maintained out of trust funds. Although the item of £2,500 might be an annual
 255
 MR. COWPER  said, that Sir Edwin Landseer had been fastidious in doing this work, for feeling how much was expected of him, he was not content with anything which would fall short of the standard of excellence which he felt his genius could attain. He was happy to say that the model of the first lion was completed, and now in the hands of the casters, being put into metal, and he hoped that the others would follow very rapidly, so that, probably, next year they might see the whole four.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Committee were unanimous that the Patent Office should be near Chancery Lane. They also thought that it was not desirable that the Museum should be in close proximity to the office. They also thought that it might be a museum of general mechanical inventions. The Government felt that accommodation should be at once provided for the Patent Office, while they thought that the museum might wait for further consideration. They also thought that no
 256
 MR. COWPER  said, that this building would soon be removed, but another might be erected.
 SIR WILLIAM ERASER  said, he believed it to be the general opinion that the duty of extinguishing fires in London ought not to be left entirely to the insurance companies, however meritorious their efforts had been, and however ready they were to assist in saving property, whether insured or not. It might be very desirable to establish a central fire brigade in the metropolis, but he thought it would be well if some explanation were given by the Government of this novel item amounting to £10,000.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that the £10,000 would only be made use of if the House assented to a Bill which he should ask leave to introduce next week for the formation of a metropolitan fire brigade. At present the protection of the metropolis from fires was entirely in the hands of the insurance companies, which had proved efficient brigades for their own purposes; but the Committee of 1862 reported that the means now in existence were quite inefficient to protect the metropolis. It was, therefore, proposed to place the duty in the hands of the Metropolitan Board of Works. The insurance companies had agreed to contribute £10,000 a year towards the new brigade; the Metropolitan Board would levy a rate of not more than a halfpenny in the pound within the metropolitan area for the same purpose; and, in consideration of the large amount of Government property and
 257
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there could be no objection to the imposition of a tax on the metropolis for the protection of the property of its inhabitants. But he saw no reason why the country generally should be required to contribute to such a charge. Were not the public buildings insured, and if they were insured, was it not the business of the insurance companies to provide against their destruction? That was a matter in which the great question of general and national, as distinguished from local and metropolitan taxation was involved, and he held such decided views upon the subject that he should feel it his duty to oppose the Vote.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Vote which had been already passed was merely for means for the extinction of fire within the Houses of Parliament; but the £10,000 now asked was to provide for fire brigades outside. One of its purposes was to secure fire engines for the security of property on the banks of the river, including docks, such as those at Woolwich; and a Government contribution was necessary. When hon. Gentlemen considered what the loss would be if Woolwich Dock yard were consumed by fire; and the various public offices, barracks, arsenals, that were to be preserved, they would not grudge the sum required.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, that £10,000 a year represented an insurance upon £4,800,000, and he thought this a most expensive method of insuring public property. He wished to know why the brigade was not to extend to all Government establishments throughout England?
 MR. COWPER  explained that he had intended to introduce a Bill for the purchase of the property opposite the Duke of Buccleuch's house and down to Upper Charles Street. Arrangements could not be made in time for the introduction of a Bill this Session, but he hoped that it would be submitted to the new Parliament.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the hon. Member for Bath deserved great credit for having extricated the property from such con-
 211
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when the Bill for the establishment of the Post Office savings banks was under discussion he had ventured to suggest to the House that the difficulties of the scheme would commence with its success, and that it would not be so easy to conduct it as some hon. Gentlemen seemed to suppose. It had occurred to him that those who had the conducting of the business of those banks would view matters in pretty much the same light as they were regarded in public offices generally, and think that very little ought to be done and a large salary paid.
 199 200
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he had some knowledge of the question which had been brought forward by the hon. and learned Member for Southampton, and could testify to the good conduct and harsh treatment of the public servants to whom it referred. The superior officer in this Department could promote any one in it and give him a higher salary. Such a power was too great for a superior officer of a department to possess, and the principle was objectionable, especially where
 213 s. d. d. s. s.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he was glad that full information was to be given, as it appeared that Parliament was about to be called upon to grant further powers to the Commissioners. The Bill introduced by the Commission contemplated the destruction of 500 houses, a larger number than would be removed for the Courts of Justice. He hoped when the Bill came before the House that a clause would be inserted requiring the Commission to provide accommodation for the people whose dwellings they sought power to destroy. He believed that the Metropolitan Railway would also come into the neighbourhood and displace many other residents at the back of the Westminster Palace Hotel. He hoped also that a com-
 210
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought that a great reason for the expensiveness of these parks was the ornamental gardening, A large garden establishment, with hothouses and expensive plants of all kinds, had recently been commenced at Battersea Park, the cost of which had increased upwards of £2,000 this year. It would be well if the Treasury would put a check on the exuberant fancy of the right hon. Gentleman. He should like to have an explanation of the Ranger's Department, as distinguished from that of the Board
 245
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that he objected to several of the items in this Vote, on the ground that they ought to be included in the Army Estimates, instead of the Estimates for the Civil Service. Not only were they asked for money for the maintenance and repair of the Chelsea Hospital and the Tower of London, both military charges, but the rents of the Army Medical Inspection office—Delahay Street and Delahay Mews—were also
 242
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I hope the House will not lend an indifferent ear to the short statement which I have to make tonight, under the impression that the subject is one simply of local interest. I can assure the House it is one of general, and so far as England is concerned one of universal interest, for it concerns every Board of Guardians in the kingdom. The House will agree with me that it is important there should be a clear understanding as to the relative duties of the Central Board and the Boards of Guardians throughout the country; for unless there is that clear understanding there is necessarily a chance of great confusion in the public business, and great neglect occasionally of the public interests. In the case I am about to bring before the House there appears to have been considerable and injurious neglect. I cannot pretend that I have not myself formed an opinion as to what body that neglect is to be attributed; but I will say to those representing the Poor Law Board to-night that, so far as I am concerned, I bring this question before them in a spirit of candour, in order to give them an opportunity of entering into explanations which may remove a strong sense of discontent and indignation now existing in a considerable district; and if the explanation is satisfactory I shall not hesitate to admit that it is so. The Wycombe Union consists of thirty parishes in the southern part of the county of Buckingham, and contains a population exceeding 35,000. The union house, which is a new structure, built within a few years from the design of Mr. Scott, is at Sanderton, and about six or seven miles from this union house, at a place called Bledlow, there is the union school. Within two or three years a person named Harold Stallwood was appointed master, and his wife matron, of the union school at Bledlow. He was apparently a man well qualified for the post, of fair fame, very good talent, and considerable experience
 217 218 ex-parte, 219 220 221 222 contra bonos mores 223 224 "I am directed by the Poor Law Board to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 27th ult., forwarding a copy of a resolution passed by the guardians of the Wycombe Union, at a meeting held on that day in reference to the resignation of Mr. and Mrs. Stallwood, the master and matron of the school, together with a copy of the evidence taken by the guardians in reference to his conduct towards Ann Allen, formerly an inmate of the school. The Board have also received your previous letters of the 14th and 20th." "In reference to the charges against Mr. Stallwood, I am directed to state that the Board have received a report from the Inspector, Mr. Cane, from which it appears that the master resigned his office unconditionally, and that Mrs. Stallwood resigned at the same time. Under these circumstances the Board direct me to point out that the acceptance of Mr. Stallwood's resignation by the guardians is not necessary to give effect to that resignation and as Mr. Stallwood is no longer responsible as an officer either to the guardians or this board, and that the Board can take no steps with regard to his alleged misconduct." 225 Will. Vict. 226 227 "Gentlemen of this country; we poor paupers ask for justice on the part of our poor children. We should like to know why the master's conduct is not exposed to all the world. If we were to put a rope around a child's neck, or draw a knife across its throat, or if our little females were treated in an indecent manner—if we were to do acts of such brutality, we should be tried and punished. Is there the same law in this land for one as for another? Why are our feelings to be outraged? We appeal for justice. Your humble servant, William Hoare, a pauper in the house."
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the remarkable statement which had been made by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets that there had been a loss of £60,000 upon the investment of the funds of the Post Office savings banks, which did not appear in the account. If that was the case there must have been gross mismanagement. The Government only paid 2½ per cent, and they were receiving interest at the rate of 3½ per cent. The money might, in his opinion, be so invested as to pay 10 per cent. It might be the theory that whenever work was increased an addition was made to the number of clerks employed; but such had not been the case in the Post Office with which he was best acquainted. He thought that as the Government had made a considerable profit upon the deposits invested in savings bunks, they might make a more liberal allowance to the Postmasters who had to conduct the business. He hoped the hon. Member would persevere with his Motion.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had nothing to complain of in the right hon. Gentleman's manner of bringing forward this case. He had done so with his usual clearness and courtesy, and if there had been any inaccuracies in his statement either of the law or the facts this was due, no doubt, to the instructions he had received. As he (Mr. C. P. Villiers) was totally unaware of what was going to be brought before the House, he was not prepared to meet all the details into which the right hon. Gentleman had gone. He had marshalled his facts for the purpose of producing a particular effect, but the
 228 229 Will. Will. Vict. 230 "I have had great experience in examining painful cases of this kind in which children are concerned, and I have frequently had reason to doubt their veracity. Not that their intention is to deceive me, but they are brought out of the ward of a workhouse, they know what they are expected to say, and I am aware of nothing which is more shocking than the disgusting details which are given by those children. I avoid, therefore, entering on such investigations when it is possible." 231 232 233
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, the Commissioners had considered the advisability of making a third distribution, but they found that a number of claims had not yet been preferred, and of course, if they made the third distribution, they would not have had the means of meeting those prior claims. The payment had been suspended only until these outstanding claims had been disposed of.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask, whether the houses were to be built in the Gothic style?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that there were very large estates the funds arising from which were applicable to the building of Westminster Bridge, but those estates had been taken by the Government, and were now merged with the other estates under the management of the Office of Woods, and the present expenses of that bridge would far exceed anything which those estates would yield. The history of the new bridge illustrated the unfitness of Government for the execution of such
 254
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that the existing brigade was supported by those who insured their property; the State did not insure, and it was not right that those who did, should have to bear the cost of protecting the national property. In Manchester and Glasgow the fire insurance offices did not provide brigades, but they were provided by the town.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to know, if Mr. Herbert had abandoned fresco and adopted canvas?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to ask what amount had been expended in the restoration of St. Stephen's crypt. There was an entry of £2,055 only in the Votes for that purpose, but he understood that it had, in fact, cost £30,000.
 MR. CRAUFURD , in rising to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the method adopted for expediting the collection of the Revenue in Scotland, as shown by Return No. 223 of the present Session, said, that he had been induced to do so partly by what had appeared in some of the prints, and partly from a desire to point out the dissatisfaction which was felt at the mode in which the business of collection was transacted. In 1857, an Act was passed fixing the close of the collection for the 1st January, the day on which the assessed and other taxes should be gathered into the Exchequer. Now this regulation had been found exceedingly inconvenient in its practical application, because it differed from the habits of the country in the collection of rents and the payment of the interest of money in Scotland; and it was probable that the dissatisfaction was really attributable to this circumstance. But, in addition, there was a feeling that the collectors, or rather the Comptroller, at the office in Edinburgh was desirous to make a good show by the rapid collection of the taxes in Scotland. No doubt, it was very desirable that a public officer should discharge his duty with ability and with all due expedition; but he ought not to go beyond that to the inconvenience and discomfort of those who have to pay the taxes; but he thought some little excess had been shown by the head officer at Edinburgh to show its zeal and activity. It was said that a course had even been pursued which was scarcely correct—that such was the coercion used towards the collectors throughout the country, that they had been compelled in many instances to advance money out of their own pockets for the purpose of closing the collection at an early period. He at first thought that there might have been a few exceptional cases of the kind; but the office at Edinburgh had published a tabulated statement of the form of collection, which drew his attention to the matter. It appeared from that statement—which being included in a Return for which he had moved was now before the House—that the collection in sixteen dis-
 234 235 236 s. d. s. d.,
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the Committee might at all events rest satisfied that sufficient money would be expended upon those parks so long as the metropolis was represented by such able Gentlemen as the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Lewis). It appeared by a foot-note in the Votes that the income derivable last year from the Royal parks and gardens, and which was paid into the Consolidated Fund, was £3,584 odd. Now a whole crop of parks had lately burst upon us. He wished to know how many of them contributed towards the amount of income to which he had referred.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to know which of the metropolitan parks was self-supporting, and which of them contributed something towards the sum of £3,584 referred to.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that it would appear that none of the metropolitan parks were self-supporting, and that while some of them contributed a small sum towards their maintenance, the others were entirely kept up out of the public purse. He was glad to get the admission from his hon. Friend that they annually voted a large sum out of the public purse for the benefit of the metropolis. He hoped to live to see the day when there would be a successful resistance to this Vote.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that the explanation of the Home Secretary was more remarkable for ingenuity than for candour. He said that this Vote was for the protection of public property. But the proposed fire brigade was for the protection of property generally in the metropolis; and the protection of the public buildings was only a collateral circumstance. This was another attempt to dive into the public purse for the benefit of the metropolis; it would add to the profits of the insurance companies, amounting to a grant to them, so that they also would share in the general taxation of the country. There was no pretext for the Vote.
 MR. WYLD  said, he wished to draw attention to the letters which appeared in the  Standard,
 MR. BRADY  said, if the Vote were agreed to, other large towns would ask the House to make them grants for the establishment of fire brigades. The reduction of the fire insurance duty would greatly improve the business of the fire offices, and there was the less reason for subsidising them with this Vote of £10,000 for that was the real object of the Vote.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he was glad to think there could now be no doubt as to the future intentions of the Government, that Mr. Herbert should have the opportunity of completing the other pictures pointed out by the Fine Arts Commission in the room in which he had already achieved such success.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he thought that a sunken road from Bayswater to Knightsbridge, across Hyde Park, might be made, which would be a great convenience especially to the residents at those places, and which would not in the slightest degree interfere with the objects to which the parks were primarily dedicated. The right hon. Gentleman deserved the greatest credit for the care which he took of the parks. It seemed to him that the House had become a great deal too fond of cutting down the expenditure upon the metropolis. Now, although they need not imitate the immoderate expenditure upon parks they ought not to allow themselves to be influenced by that parsimonious feeling which had been creeping in of late years. People who came to London from all parts shared in the enjoyment of these parks, and it was an object, therefore, to which the country at large ought to contribute.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the rate would be paid all over the metropolis, and why should not the Government pay as well as everybody else for the protection which would be afforded to the Government buildings?
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he did not agree that the Museum should be at Kensington.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, it had been proved before the Select Committee of last year that the Patent Office was crowded and insufficient for its purpose, and he thought that spending any more upon it was like throwing good money after bad. It would be better to take the bull by the horns, and erect a suitable office and library at once.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he thought that the Committee were bound to give the right hon. Gentleman credit for the admirable way in which the parks were kept. He hoped, however, that the general acknowledgment of that fact would not stimulate him to expend more money upon them, £30,000 was, after all, a good sum to pay for keeping up St. James's Park, the Green Park, Hyde Park, and Kensington Gardens.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he wished for information as to the large sum asked for the housekeeping expenses of the Houses of Parliament, amounting to £22,761. There was a sum of £4,775 for gas, the greater part of which, he understood, was consumed in the private residences in the Palace. This appeared to be an enormous sum for the purpose, and he was desirous to know whether the amount of gas was accurately measured by proper persons appointed for the purpose, as he thought there must be great waste somewhere?
 MR. DILLWYN : What is to be the use of this crypt?
 MR. DILLWYN : It is not in my power to bring it on without the assistance of the Hosue. It stands now as an Order of the Day, but I hope I shall be able to induce the Government to give me a day.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, that hon. Gentle men talked of the necessity for insuring the Houses of Parliament, but they had already done that by a Vote of £1,650 which the Committee had passed that evening.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Bill was framed to remedy an anomaly which now existed in regard to chief rents and quitrents arising out of property in the north of England.
 MR. TAVERNER MILLER  said, there were several charities in Westminster which were highly indebted to the Commission, for the lands which they held there, from being waste and profitless, had by the operations of the Commission become saleable to the great advantage of their funds and powers of doing good. In all the transactions which he had had with the Commissioners he had always found them anxious to do what was most for the public good. He was sorry to see an attempt made to get up a prejudice against the Commissioners in reference to this Bill. When it came before the House, it would be found that, so far from pulling down 500 houses, it only took compulsory powers with reference to some twenty or thirty houses. AB to the rest permissive powers only were asked for.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that the House was not asked to vote the whole sum required for the protection of life and property in the metropolis, but only to contribute to the general charge in respect of the property of the nation, such as the Houses of Parliament, the Palaces, the public offices, and Woolwich Arsenal and Dockyard.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) did not exactly make his mouth water, he certainly greatly astonished him when lie talked of investing the money deposited in the Post Office savings banks so as to earn 10 per cent. If the hon. Gentleman could realize what he had promised, he believed that he should be quite safe in asking the House to grant him a sum of money in acknowledgment of so great a public service. When these Post Office savings banks were established, the Government cer-
 205 206
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with reference to the general system of collecting taxes in Scotland, the hon. and learned Gentleman had stated very truly that they were collected in a different way from the manner in which they were formerly collected, and he regards the change as a grievance towards Scotland, arising from the present system of payment. His (the Chancellor of the Exchequer's) means of judgment on the subject are two. The first was the direct assurance of those who were engaged in the service of the Government in the collection of these taxes; the second was the negative evidence derived from the absence of complaints; and he could say, especially with regard to the second of these means, that his belief was that the system of the collection of taxes which had been introduced into, and was
 237 238
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he had had his attention called to the disgraceful and indecent proceedings which take place every Sunday evening in the Upper Street, Islington; and whether he will take measures for the protection of the inhabitants of that locality from the outrages and assaults to which they are now weekly subjected? The inhabitants of Islington, who paid about £20,000 a year for police rates, were much scandalized at the manner in which this public thoroughfare was kept by the police, and naturally believed that if they had the management of their own police such disgraceful scenes as were now witnessed in Upper Street, Islington, would, speedily be put an end to. During the last ten or twelve months it had been impossible for respectable women and young females to walk through this street on their return from their respective places of worship without being subjected to the most scandalous outrages by a set of ruffians who congregated on this wide and open thoroughfare, a fine promenade a mile in length, which the inhabitants were so proud of that they compared it to one of the boulevards in Paris. These respectable females were not only subjected to these indecent assaults, but their ears were polluted by language the most
 239
 MR. COX  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Baronet, whether, in case six policemen were found to be insufficient to control 1,600 ruffians, an increased force would be granted?
 MR. W. LESLIE  said, he wished to ask for some explanation of its objects.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he wished to know, whether the contribution of £10,000 would be repeated in future years? He thought it too large.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, that civil servants were entitled to ask the House to remedy any grievance under which they suffered. No one could doubt that those assistants were an intelligent, educated class of men or that they had been unjustly treated. It was said that they were at liberty to quit the service if not satisfied. Advertisements had been put into the newspapers for men to fill the places of these assistants, but only one applicant would undertake the duties, and he resigned after three months. The survey they made was a credit to the nation; the treatment they received was a re proach to the Government. He had no doubt they would be told that this was a case brought forward in the interests of their constituents; but public servants had a right to come to that House when they had a grievance to complain of, and in this instance there was a substantial grievance. He hoped the Government would agree to this very moderate demand.
 MR. TITE  said, he begged to thank the hon. Baronet for the courteous tone of his remarks. He had on a previous occasion stated the duties of the Commission of 1861, which came to the rescue of a very large property. The former Commissioners having spent all their money and contracted debts to the extent of £300,000, secured by mortgages, and £700,000 in addition in debentures—were in a position of complete insolvency, and in 1861 an Act was passed appointing a new Commission, consisting of six gentlemen—one being a Member of the old Commission, two representing the bondholders, two others representing the mortgagees, and himself nominated by the Government as Chairman. Although he had been all his life engaged in business he could safely say that a more onerous duty had never been undertaken by him, the affairs being most complicated in their nature. All the moneys received by the Commission were paid into the Court of Chancery for division among the mortgagees. The expenses were extremely moderate, and the allowance to the Commissioners was only £700 a year. They were authorized to borrow £10,000 in order to pay the bills of the lawyers and the surveyors, but they had no intention of embarking upon any speculation. During the last winter, by the co-operation of some corporations interested in property lying near Victoria Street, they were encouraged to carry out an improvement in Orchard Street, and by the co-operation of a large firm—Elliott and Co.—they were enabled to make great improvements at the other end of the street without borrowing or spending a single shilling of public money. Their object was to obtain something for the bondholders, and their solicitor had advised them that it would be necessary to apply to Parliament for additional powers. A benevolent gentleman—Mr. Gibbs—who had spent £40,000 in providing accommodation for the working classes, was willing to assist them in making further improvements. The House must remember that the houses in the neighbourhood were not occupied by working people, but consisted to a large extent of some of the lowest brothels to be found in London. It was desirable to make an improved access from the Park by means of a short street, and toward effecting that object the co-operation of the Metropolitan Board of Works and the parishes might be expected. It was also desirable to open
 209
 SIR FRANGIS GOLDSMID  said, he wished to call the right hon. Gentleman's attention to the fact that the ornamental water in the Regent's Park smelt so badly in hot weather that it was injurious to the health of the neighbourhood.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he hoped that well-intentioned suggestions would not induce the right hon. Gentleman to destroy the real charm of the public parks. Those who lived in the metropolis must pay some price for the enjoyment of the parks. Either they must be kept as places of recreation, or they must be cut up for roads for the public convenience. The right hon. Gentleman ought to exercise the greatest jealousy with reference to all proposals for increasing the traffic across the parks. He trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would steadfastly adhere to his principle of preserving a great portion of the metropolis for the purpose of promoting the public health as well as for recreation. He (Mr. Powell) was glad to find that the parks were becoming year by year the resort of working men and their children, as well as of the higher and more educated classes, who some years since might be said to be the exclusive visitors of them. He felt bound
 244
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to ask for explanations on two or three points connected with this Vote; and first as to the clock tower, and the mode in which it was to be completed. Part of the original design was a large enclosed square between Westminster Hall and Bridge Street, and it was intended that the clock tower should form part of the block of buildings instead of rising from the ground independently. In consequence of the view of Westminster Abbey which was obtained from the open space in New Bridge Street it had been determined to depart from the original design of Sir Charles Barry, and have the clock tower springing from the ground instead of rising from a square, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) would give some explanation of the plans for the modification, and name the architect who was to carry it out. He considered, too, that plans of the proposed change should have been submitted to the view of hon. Members. The next question he wished to ask referred to the Peers' Robing Room and its decorations, especially, "Moses Coming Down from Mount Sinai," and the "Judgment of Daniel." He wished to know what was the arrangement between the Government and Mr. Herbert with respect to the "Judgment of Daniel." Had Mr. Herbert received full commission for the completion of the design? Were they in future years to have a painful controversy respecting the sum which should be paid to that most distinguished of modern artists? Had any negotiation been entered into with reference to the completion of the full design for the decoration of the
 248
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, one question he had asked had not been fully answered, with regard to the pictures for the Peers' Robing Room. He had asked what arrangements were made with Mr. Herbert for the paintings to decorate that room, and whether the "Judgment of Daniel" was to be executed on the walls of the room, or on canvas, to be fixed after its execution.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to ask whether the same style of architecture would be adopted for the enlargement as in the present building, and whether there would be adequate provision made against the casualty of fire?
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to know if there was any present intention to carry out the recommendation of the Committee as to the patent library? With reference to the museum, he desired to be informed whether it was to be a museum confined to patent inventions, or including mechanical arts generally? Was the museum to be continued at Kensington, and was it to be upon the pattern of that in America or of the one in Paris?
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he thought the building in which the patent models were at Kensington was extremely inadequate for the purpose, and asked whether the Government would extend it.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to inquire, whether the exclusive responsibility of placing a number of policemen in any locality rested with Sir Richard Mayne; or whether any share of that responsibility rested in the Home Office?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : If an appeal were made to me, which was not done in this case, because the inhabitants had expressed themselves satisfied with the present arrangement, I should call upon the Commissioner of Police to explain the reason which induced him to fix any number; and if I saw that that number was deficient I would express to him that opinion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not know that there were 1,600 ruffians. He should hope that the 1,600 persons who frequented this very agreeable walk I were not all ruffians. The young women themselves, too, were not always unwilling I parties to the misbehaviour complained of. The police force should of course vary according to the circumstances of each particular exigency.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that his attention had not been called to the subject before the notice was placed upon the paper by the hon. Gentleman. On inquiry he found why his attention had not been called to the matter. As his hon. Friend had stated, there existed in the neighbourhood referred to a wide and enjoyable walk, which on Sundays was much frequented. Among those who
 240 241
 SIR GEORGE GREY : At present all the Government days are fully occupied.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the proposed payment was not in aid of the local rates of the metropolis, but in respect of the protection which would be enjoyed by public buildings in which the whole country had an interest. They were in London because London was the scat of the national Government. It was only reasonable that the Houses of Parliament and public offices in which the whole business of the country was transacted, should be protected from fire by the help of the public funds.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Government could not attempt to bind the House of Commons in future years. The sum which was now asked for was intended as a contribution towards the establishment of a fire brigade of a more extensive character than that which now existed. That brigade would be placed under the management of the Metropolitan Board of Works; the insurance companies would contribute a sum towards the general expenses, and would hand over their plant and engines; and the brigade would be supported partly by a general rate and partly by a contribution from the insurance offices and a grant from the public revenue in consideration of the protection which would be afforded to the national buildings.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  rose to put two questions to the First Commissioner of Works. At present persons wishing to pass from Bayswater to Knightsbridge were compelled to do so by traversing three sides of a square, and he thought that an alteration might be made which would greatly conduce to the public convenience. He fully appreciated the beauty and the charms of Kensington Gardens and Hyde Park, but he believed that a sunken road might be made from Bayswater along the eastern side of Kensington Gardens, and carried on by a widening of the existing bridge over the Serpentine, and then be continued under Rotten Row to Knightsbridge. Such a road might be made without causing inconvenience or creating an eyesore. With regard to the second question, he would observe that equestrian exercise had now become so general, and especially with ladies, that it
 243
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he hoped it would be remembered that it was not merely buildings, but valuable records and public papers that were to be preserved.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he should support the Vote, believing it to be a step in the right direction. He thought the Government ought to contribute their fair proportion towards the rates of the country.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that he also could bear testimony to the change for the better which, owing to the labours of the hon. Member (Mr. Tite), had come over the property during the last four years. There would be plenty of opportunity for discussing the Bill when it came before them.
 MR. CAVE , in rising to move a Resolution on the subject of the inadequate remuneration of Postmasters, said, he wished first of all to clear himself from a charge which might be brought against him, and to answer by anticipation an objection which was usually made against Motions of a similar character. The charge was that he was aiming at an increase in the taxation of the country. Of course this was the case indirectly, insomuch as it diminished the surplus revenue of the Post Office, but he submitted that the Post Office was not to be considered a branch of the revenue, but an establishment for giving every convenience to the country within the scope of the Department, provided it could be done without loss. Now, according to the last Report of the Postmaster General, there was a surplus of £10.000 to the credit of the Post Office savings banks account. He had heard it, indeed, doubted whether that was a correct statement of account, and it had been said that the savings
 195 196 197 d. s. "I can plainly see the Postmaster discourages the issue of 'books,' and what he does in all
 198 d.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, that the designs for the lions for the column could not have been intrusted to better hands than those of Sir Edwin Landseer, but a long delay had taken place, and he wished to inquire when it was probable that the lions would be completed.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to ask, whether this included the purchase of the block of houses extending from opposite the Duke of Buccleuch's house towards Westminster Abbey?
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to inquire, what would be the character of the brigade which was about to be established?
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would attend to the health and convenience of hon. Members on the Opposition Benches as well as of those occupying seats on the Government side of the House. The fact was, there were frequent complaints as to the ventilation on both sides of the House; for from some mysterious cause between the hours of four and six in the afternoon many Members were in a state of semi-asphyxia. He believed it was owing to the imperfect state of the ventilation.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to ask, if the Government were determined not to allow a station on the Metropolitan Railway near the House of Commons? It had formerly been proposed to construct a railway close to the Houses of Parliament, but an objection, he understood, had been raised that it would interfere with the rights of the Crown. He wished to have some explanation upon this point?
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY , in rising to put to the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) certain Questions of which he had given notice, said, that he felt convinced that notwithstanding what had taken place between the hon. Member and himself some years ago, the hon. Gentleman would give him credit for bringing no Motion forward in a feeling of personal hostility, and for asking no questions which were not dictated by an honest desire to obtain information. He wished to ask the hon. Member, who was Chairman of the Westminster Improvement Commission, for information relative to the intended destruction of a very large number of houses in Westminster exclusively inhabited by the poorer class of the population. A Bill was passed in 1861, which seemed to be a Bill for allowing certain affairs of the association to be wound up, though Clause 29 gave them the power of purchasing in certain cases, to enable them to carry out the instructions of the Act. He could not, however, feel at all satisfied with the progress that the Westminster Improvement Commission had made since the year 1861. The Commissioners had two duties intrusted to them by Act of Parliament. One was to sell the property which was invested in their hands, and the other was to purchase a good deal of property adjacent to their own, the purchase of which would make their own property more valuable and more saleable. As regarded their duty relating to the sale of the property, nothing could, of course, be more easy, because the property was not only very valuable in 1861, but had actually doubled in value since that period, in addition to which there was, he believed, the greatest desire for its possession exhibited on the part of the public. He was afraid, however, that the question of buying property was a more difficult matter, because at that time the Commission did not possess one shilling in the shape of credit or sixpence in ready money. He would ask the hon.
 207
 MR. JACKSON  said, that they were discussing a Bill which was not before the House, and it would be time enough to discuss it when it was before them. They had nothing to do with the improvements made by the Marquess of Westminster or Mr. Gibbs. Speaking from his practical knowledge of the property, he could say that no property had so much improved during the last twenty years as that property had. The working of the Commission had been most beneficial to the property, and he felt bound to say that he thought all those interested in the property were greatly indebted to the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite).
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I will answer the series of questions put to me by the hon. Member for Devonport, including that just added by my hon. Friend opposite, which relate to the resig-
 294 "That your petitioner has for some time past been afflicted with a failure in his sight, and that the same has now become so serious that lie is no longer able satisfactorily to perform the duties of his office, as appears by the certificate of Samuel Key, a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, practising at Leeds, hereunto annexed, and is consequently desirous of retiring." 295
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether any Return has been furnished by the Madras Authorities in India showing the effect of the Staff Corps promotions on the Lieutenant Colonels of the local service in that Presidency; what has been the effect on these Lieutenant Colonels by the Brevet Promotions, which were to remedy the supersession caused by the Staff Corps Warrant; and if he will lay upon the table of the House copies of any representations from the Government of India, Madras, or Bombay, and from the Commanders-in-Chief of the Presidencies respecting Army arrangements ordered by the Secretary of State for India in 1861?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that as the Government did not admit the accuracy of the statements contained in the lion. Baronet's question, nor that the conclusions contained in the Report were unsupported by evidence, but, on the contrary, believed them to be based on the most ample and satisfactory evidence; they were not pre pared to institute any such measure as the question of the hon. Baronet had indicated.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the hon. Gentleman was doubtless well aware that Hampton Court Palace was ill adapted for the proper exhibition of these valuable works of art. That had been felt so much before that one hundred years ago the Cartoons were removed from Hampton Court, and placed at Buckingham Palace. Not being well placed there, they were removed to Windsor Castle, but George III. restored them to Hampton Court, where they had originally been placed by William III. Her Majesty had now been pleased to lend them for exhibition at South Kensington, where there was a fire proof room, and where they would be better seen than they ever had before. Her Majesty had not intimated her pleasure as to their ultimate and permanent destination. They had been safely conveyed without any damage being done to them. The cost of transport would be defrayed by the Science and Art Department, which would have the custody of them, and which had made such admirable arrangements for their being seen without risk or disadvantage.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Art Referee of the South Kensington Museum, Mr. It. Redgrave, who was also Superintendent of Pictures to Her Majesty, had examined very minutely into the present condition of these Cartoons, and he had called to his aid several other persons eminently qualified to judge of such matters among others the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard), and the right hon. Gentleman might be assured that they were in hands quite qualified to take any measures which might be necessary for their preservation.
 MR. HENLEY : Sir, I think it right for the information of those Members who may not have been in the House on Thursday night to say a word or two respecting what took place on that occasion. The Cabinet Minister who has charge of the Bill, directly accused—in plain terms—those who were speaking on the Motion for going into Committee, of a design to obstruct this Bill unduly. I wish there fore to recall to the recollection of the House how the case stands. Some time in February, I think it was on the 23rd, this Bill was introduced. On the Motion for the second reading an Amendment was moved by the hon. Baronet the Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley) for the purpose of postponing the Bill for a year. A debate and division took place on the Amendment; but no debate
 304 305 306 307 "Especially within the last twenty or thirty years this evil"—(that is to say the evil of taking down cottages)—"has been in very rapid increase, and the household circumstances of the labourer are now in the highest degree deplorable. Whether he shall find house-room on the land which he continues to till, whether the house-room which he gets shall be human or swinish, whether he shall have the little space of garden that so vastly lessens the pressure of his poverty—all this does not depend on his willingness and ability to pay reasonable rent for the decent accommodation he requires, but depends on the use which others may see fit to make of their right to do as they will with their own."—p. 9.
 MR. W. E. PORSTER  said, that he understood the Report to apply that charge specially to the eastern and midland counties, and not to the length and breadth of the land.
 MR. HENLEY : I am willing to narrow it to the midland counties, but the Report does not so confine the charge. In almost
 308 309 310 311 312 313 Doctor Doctor, 314 315 316 317 318 unalocula unalocula multalocula 319 320 "At Fenihampstead a gentleman had built excel lent small houses under the names of cottages, and is said to be about to pull down the old. It is feared the contemplated destruction of the houses will in the end drive the poor into towns. The new houses may not long remain in such hands. "On the Oxfordshire side cots have been destroyed and people driven four miles to seek lodgings in the country." "Cots go to ruin in hundreds, and families in crease everywhere, but it must not be concealed that the game preserver has reasons for disliking a full population, and the high value attached to game in this part of England has its influence in condensing the inhabitants of these counties with in the towns." "The excellent condition of the houses in Broughton and Barton is accompanied by a high degree of opulence and comfort not produced by the generosity or ostentation of the Lord, but the direct effect of the high value of the labourer." "In 1831 there were seventy-four houses in the manufacturing village of Nateby, but only three persons to a house; there are now sixty-two houses and six persons to a house." "If the village belonged to two or three rich men the wells would be deep, and deserve the popular name of everlasting, but the village would
 321 322 s. s. d., s. d., d. d. 323 s. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. d. non existentibus et non apparentibus eadem est ratio; 324
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down intimated in pretty distinct terms, towards the close of his speech, that this Bill was introduced for a party object, and that the Government sought by its means to serve some electioneering purpose. He seems, however, to have forgotten that it is founded on the recommendation—I believe the unanimous recommendation—of a Committee which sat for three years, and which was as fairly constituted as any which has ever been appointed by this House. Nor does the principle of the Bill rest solely on the recommendation of that Committee. Everybody must be well aware that its principle is one which has been advocated by nearly every thoughtful writer and every thoughtful statesman for many years past. I am therefore surprised to hear from the lips of the right hon. Gentleman a statement which is capable of being so completely refuted. My object, however, is not to enter into the merits of the Bill, but rather to reply to the attack which the right hon. Gentleman has thought proper to make on the Report which formed the topic of so large a portion of his speech. The right hon. Gentleman has asked if this Report was made to order, and, it' not, what was its history? Its history, I may tell him shortly is this:—In 1863, a most competent person, Dr. Smith, was employed under the direction of the medical officer of the Privy Council to prepare a Report on the food of the people. That Report excited great interest; it was widely read and commented upon, and I am in a position to say that it produced the most beneficial effect. It was then suggested that this inquiry should be followed up by one of an analogous character into the residences of the people, and I can positively state that that inquiry was not instituted with the remotest reference to the present Bill or to any other Government measure. I, at any rate, when
 325 326 "It would, however, be unjust to suppose that the relations between the large landowner and the labouring population are universally such as I have described. Dr. Hunter's report shows many illustrations of landownership exercised in a far different spirit. There are some of the very largest land properties in the country where for generations there has been the tradition of better treatment; where at least no aggression has been made against the house-accommodation of the poor; where only very low rents are taken; where gardens are commonly given; where deep wells have been sunk; where at least roofs and walls have been kept in sufficient repair; and where, while the landlord has done these things, the tenants, knowing themselves to be secure against eviction, and hoping that their children may succeed to their homesteads, have been encouraged to plant their gardens, to protect their houses against dilapidation, and even to improve the property by occasional necessary out-build ings."—p. 11. "Here, however, it is again right to observe that the evil is not universally found. In contrast with the last-drawn picture of a far too frequent phenomenon many parts of England show the pleasant spectacle of landowners taking real interest in the quality of such cottage accommodation as they chose to have existing on their estates. Often such landlords have begun the re-construction of their cottage property on a scale better suited than the old models to the requirements of an English labouring family."—p. 12. 327 "But, as regards the extent of the evil, it may suffice to advert to the evidence which Dr. Hunter has compiled from the last census, that destruction of houses, notwithstanding increased local demands for them, had, during the last ten years, been in progress in 821 separate parishes or townships of England; so that, irrespectively of persons who had been forced to become non resident, the parishes and townships were receiving in 1861, as compared with 1851, a population of 5⅓ per cent greater into house-room 4½ per cent less."—p. 10.
 MR. PACKE  said, that 450 petitions had been presented in reference to the Bill, 330 of which were against the Bill, and only 120 in its favour. One of the petitions came from the Union of Stock port, the guardians of which had them selves petitioned against the Bill. With regard to the condition of the calumniated midland counties he might say that he had lived in every part of Leicestershire, and he did not know of any close parish where the poor were not well treated and pro vided with comfortable cottages and allotments. He knew of no instance in that county in which a parish had been de populated in order to drive the poor into the towns. He had no personal interest in the matter, for he occupied two farms on one of which he would be benefited and on the other injured by the measure. In his opinion a more thoroughly unjust, dishonest, and tyrannical Bill was never introduced for the benefit of the towns
 333
 LORD HENLEY  said, he always looked upon a Motion for further inquiry as an attempt to defeat a Bill; and as he was anxious to see the present measure passed he could not vote for the Amendment. But at the same time he should observe that if it were to receive the sanction of Parliament the Poor Law Board ought to take into their careful consideration the expediency of effecting a re-adjustment of the unions. He could state a case which would show the necessity for such a change. Northampton was a large and an improving town, consisting of about 30,000 inhabitants. The union of which it formed part, comprised, in addition, thirteen agricultural parishes. The poor rate in Northampton amounted, on the average, to about 4 s. s. d. s. s., 334
 MR. HENLEY : I never said they were not crowded. I spoke strongly to the contrary.
 MR. HENLEY : That it was a cock-and-bull story about houses being demolished.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had no wish to object to the Speaker leaving the chair, but he wished to explain that in the whole course of his speech he had never said that he was satisfied with the dwellings of the labouring poor—an assertion which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) had endeavoured to fasten on him. On the contrary, he had said that he was not satisfied, that there was much to be done, and he had spoken very strongly of the shortcomings of all, in whatever situation they might be. He wished to relieve himself of that charge. As to what the right hon. Gentleman had said of his general opinions he had no objection to make. His opinions about settlement were very well known, for he had given notice of an Amendment for doing away altogether with settlement and removal, which he hoped would be successful, and in which he hoped, after the language which had been used by him, to have the right hon. Gentleman's sup port. He had no objection to going into Committee on the understanding that the Chairman would report Progress at once, for the right hon. Gentleman could hardly expect to go on with the Bill to-night.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Estimates showed that the recommendations had been carried out with regard to the pictures already executed. The recommendations of the Commission with reference to
 372
 COLONEL DICKSON  seconded the Motion, and said that no one in the House was in favour of the Bill except the hon. Baronet who brought it in. If the Amendments which were proposed were adopted, the Bill might be made a very good Bill.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  defended the measure.
 MR. GREGORY  said, the Bill would be most mischievous, by creating ill-feeling between gentlemen and farmers, because it legalized shooting at a time when the crops were still standing.
 LORD ELCHO  replied, that as the interests affected by any measure of this kind would not be less various in another Session than they were in the present, and as he considered it most desirable to effect some legislation upon the subject, he thought the objecting interests in question should state upon what grounds they objected to the Bill. He, therefore, in order to give them an opportunity of expressing those objections, proposed to proceed with the Bill to-morrow, and afterwards to re print the Bill with such Amendments as should be suggested, so as to make it more palatable, or, at all events, less unpalatable, to the people of Scotland.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, there was a strong feeling in the county he represented on the subject of this Bill; yet he must earnestly disclaim on his own part, and on the part of those who sat near him, any intention to offer it a factious opposition. He felt certain that a revision of the boundaries of unions must take place, and that the Poor Law Board would be obliged to appoint something like a Boundary Commission. He always felt that when a
 336 337
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Shoreham had ended his speech by saying that, inasmuch as he thought this Bill ought to be supplemented by other measures which he indicated, he should vote for it. Now, he must say that his Parliamentary experience led him to think that it was very unwise to follow such a course. He had not heard that it was the intention of the Government to supplement this Bill by measures such as he recommended. On the contrary, they knew from the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) that he regarded this measure with unmixed satisfaction. He admitted no injustice to be in it. It was a complete and perfect whole, and his hon. Friend the Member for Shoreham would find himself most grievously disappointed if lie assented to this measure in the expectation that in some future Session the right hon. Gentleman would supplement it by those other measures which he thought were absolutely necessary to render it just and fair. He should have thought that a measure of this great importance, and one which would effect an absolute social revolution, as his hon. Friend behind him had justly observed, would not be pressed so urgently upon the House unless it had the almost general support of those whom it would more particularly affect, and who had representatives sitting on both sides of the House. He should have thought that it would not have been pressed upon the House unless it was supported by the general intelligence of the country at large. Looking, however, to the petitions presented to that House, he believed the great majority of them were adverse to the mea sure. The debate, too, which had occurred, must have proved the fact that a great difference of opinion as to the merits
 347 348 349 350 from the Ministerial side. 351 352
 EARL PERCY  said, that the farmers in his part of the country were not at all favourable to the Bill, and he had received many remonstrances against the system it was proposed to introduce.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, if we could admit the premisses of the noble Lord who has just spoken—if we could admit all the grounds upon which he bases the conclusions at which he has arrived—I think our course would be easy, and we might accede to the suggestion that we should abandon this Bill, or, what is the same thing, accede to the proposal for sending it to a Committee upstairs. The noble Lord (Lord John Manners) like the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) sees the difficulty of his case. He sees that this is no ordinary question, that this is a Bill brought in upon information of a very extended character and supported by authority of no ordinary kind. And they feel that they must get rid of that—they must change the issue, they must shuffle the pack, they must try and divert attention from what is the real ground of this measure, and from the true reason why it is introduced. So, the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire first, and the noble Lord afterwards, fasten upon some statistics that were incidentally referred to in bringing in this Bill, and they assert what they do not prove. The noble Lord and the right hon. Gentleman are arguing this Bill upon some imperfections or defects in certain statistics which have been introduced since this Bill was brought in, and which they allege are unfounded. They allege, further, that I have rested this measure on those statistics. Now, I say they have no ground whatever for that assertion. I introduced the Bill, Sir, upon the recommendation of a Committee of this House which had sat for three either be still further probed and exposed, or, if that were possible, set up again.: He ventured to say that such a case for inquiry had been made out that night as had never yet been submitted to Parliament in vain. And if in the face of that years inquiring into the operation of the exposure the Government persevered in Poor Law and its general administration. The hon. Member for Worcestershire (Mr. Knight) knew that the inquiry was to take place into this matter, and I believe he wished to be upon that Committee on that account. The inquiry was, as I have stated, instituted into the general operation of the Poor Law, and among other points that most important one of the rating of property, for the mainte-
 353 354 355 356 357 Opposition cries of 358 "At a meeting of the Tenant Farmers' Club, in March, 1847, it was resolved unanimously:—" That it is the opinion of the members of the Committee present that parochial settlement should be abolished, and that the system of arrangement by which relief to the poor be administered should he extended to the utmost practical limit." "The evidence accompanying this Report is pregnant with proof that the employment of unprofitable labour would constitute an important addition to such returns. In order to reduce the poor rates the fanners in many parishes employ more hands than the economical working of the land requires. Mr. Robert Smith explains this system, and Mr. Baker estimates this additional outlay on his farm at £3 per week on 500 acres. The actual sum levied in the name of the poor rate does not therefore correctly represent the full amount of the charge imposed upon real property by the laws regarding the maintenance of the poor." "He considered that the present law of settlement operated unfavourably upon the farmer in diminishing his supply of labour. He had had a good deal of conversation with farmers in that respect. He knew front his own experience that
 359 "I have talked with men in the parish, and they have said to me, 'You may as well give me work (that is the bad workmen who are rejected by the farmers) as keep me; you must do one or the other.' That is the common feeling. I do not mean with the well-disposed, but there will always be in the parish idle men who will want to get their subsistence as lightly as possible. I could name four men who would fairly come under this description. It is most annoying. I have some men—really very superior men, drill-men and others of that kind. The farmers of the parish will not give those a higher rate of wages, because they find they have to employ so many men. The case is this:—In my parish there is always a certain amount of work to be done, which must be distributed alike among all the labourers. If a few did a much greater quantity of work, and thereby earned higher wages, there would be so much less employment for the rest, so that there is really no encouragement for the superior labourer in the parish, nor can he carry his skill to another market, where there is no fit residence for him, and no pro vision in sickness and old age under the present system." "I know of places in one of the eastern counties in which I find that when I visit them from time to time, the cottages are very fast diminishing, and when I have made inquiries about it, from curiosity rather than anything else, I have been informed that the village was supposed to look prettier with fewer cottages, and that the labouring class of people came from the adjoining parish. Witness stated that he saw that this evil was increasing in Suffolk, and he felt it his duty, as Chairman of the Quarter Sessions, to comment upon it publicly. There was a very full bench of magistrates that day, and not a single magistrate afterwards made the slightest observation, either to contradict or find fault with the Chair man's remark; the fact, indeed, could not be denied." 360 "Being desirous of furnishing you with more recent information than that contained in the re ports above referred to (although I believe they still represent with tolerable accuracy the present condition of those counties) as to cottage accommodation, and as the neighbourhood of my own residence in Bedfordshire is rather conspicuous in Dr. Hunter's report, I determined on inspecting some of the dwellings of labourers in this and the adjacent parishes. Accompanied by the medical officer, I visited several parts of this town, and the result of my inspection satisfied me that Dr. Hunter's report is not at all exaggerated; some of the dwellings I visited are more deplorable than those he reports on. I read over to the medical officer of Potten, a small town in the Biggleswade Union, Dr. Hunter's report on that town, and he assured me that the statements were not beyond the strict truth, and he also con firmed Dr. Hunter's statement as to Dunton, Eveworth, Wrestlingworth, and other neighbouring villages. I drove through these villages and inspected several of the cottages, and my own observations lead me also to the same conclusions. As Dr, Hunter has given in his report consider-
 361 A laugh. 362 "As a ratepayer in a rural parish, he thought it a very hard thing that his rates were to be in creased one-half by the proposed measure, when he had not a single pauper in his parish, and had not had one for years. Consequently, he should have to pay a very large sum to relieve the rest of the union. Personally, therefore, he had very strong motives for opposing the Bill. But he felt it his duty to look at the matter from a wider point of view. It was urged that the measure would have the effect of encouraging landowners and farmers to build cottages for their workmen near the place of their employment, and, believing this would be the case, he should support it. He had frequently observed that when a man who lived near his work came to be about fifty or sixty he was still fresh and active, while a man who had to walk daily two miles to and from his employment was worn out by the time he attained that age. He had observed, this again and again. He had been a large employer of labour, and he always found that the men who lived near their work preserved their strength for many years longer than those who resided two or three miles from it. He believed that the proposed change would be beneficial to the poor." "The parochial system for Church purposes was invaluable, but it did not follow from that
 363 Hansard, "The evils of overcrowding in the production of disease are known to be as great in ordinary dwellings as those of bad drainage. Houses have been drained, but the medical officers report constantly that the gain from good drainage is counteracted by the bad effects of overcrowding. This renders the inhabitants more liable to epidemics. To test Dr. Hunter's report, some Returns have been got from the Registrar General as to the mortality in the Reading and Thame unions. Last year was a year of epidemic disease, which visits the well-to-do class more severely than the others, but the Returns show that the ratio per cent of deaths from diseases of the zymotic class were just double among the labourers, being, in the one case 16, as against 9 of the upper class in the Thame union. Reading shows 17 per cent
 364
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Then, what is the fact? Are there cottages enough or not for the poor? Have the houses kept up in proportion to the population, or have they not? Everybody seems to be wrong about this matter except the right hon. Gentleman; but if you choose to in-inquire into this matter fully—[ Loud cheers from the Opposition Benches 365 Manchester Courier, "In the fourteen bedrooms slept thirty-four adults and thirty-three children. At Langtoft, in Lincolnshire, a similar story was told—twelve bedrooms to accommodate thirty-six adults and thirty-eight children—and in hundreds of parishes all over the country the same cry of insufficient accommodation was everywhere raised.…The results of all this neglect are two-fold. Mo rally and physically the labouring classes suffer bitterly. The overcrowding inevitably destroys all feeling of shame, and injures the very sources of morality. Dr. Hunter can only hint at some of the evils which result from the system, and his report is not written for people of delicate organization, who are afraid to look the evil in the face. It will, therefore, be enough to say here that the evils to which he refers are such as strike at the root of all national morality and religion. The worst crimes become through this overcrowding not only possible but more than probable, and since nature cannot be outraged with impunity, physical evils follow with swift steps. Hence these overcrowded cottages become nests, not merely of all kinds of moral disease, but of every species of physical malady also. From them and from the neglect of all sanitary conditions, fevers of the most aggravated type are bred. An epidemic springing from similar causes is making its way over the Continent. If it at once reach this country it will find its house 'empty, sweet, and garnished.' What the final result will he it is now impossible to predict. That it will, however, be anything less than the decimation of the la-
 366 "The practice of clearing off cottages at which my correspondent hints may, I fear, be found in this county in several instances." "Northamptonshire.—It would he invidious to mention names, hut it must be admitted that in some grazing districts requiring but little labour a system of depopulation has been systematically carried on by proprietors for several years. Shropshire.—More cottages, and of a better character, are sadly wanted. Bucks.—Among the many causes which assist in degrading the poor, insufficiency of cottage room with bad situations and frequently high rents is certainly among the chief. Devon.—The small number and the un tenantable state of many of the cottages compel a large proportion of the workmen to reside in the nearest town or village, a circumstance unfavourable to his comforts and morals as well as those of his family, and a loss of time and
 367 368 369 370
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : I understood from the right hon. Gentleman that it was a cock-and-bull story about people being crowded.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, the dietaries in workhouses have been prepared by the guardians of the unions or parishes to which the workhouses belong. They are generally framed, according to the experience of the Board of Guardians, to suit the exigencies of their own union or parish. They are referred to the Poor Law Board, who require the opinion of the medical officer, as to the propriety and sufficiency of the dietary for the particular workhouse. They receive his Report, and comparing the dietary with certain principles and rules with which they have been supplied by a very eminent scientific authority, and with the result of their own experience, they either sanction the proposal or suggest alterations. It has not been the practice of the Board to compare dietaries of different unions together, as they have never sought to bring about any uniformity in this matter. But a communication from an experienced and able medical officer in the metropolis has been made to the Board a short time since, directing the attention of the Board to the diversities which prevail in the dietaries of the workhouses of the metropolis, and the Board propose to cause an investigation to be made upon the subject, with the view of ascertaining whether any action can be taken in the matter with a beneficial effect.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that in consequence of an Address which was agreed to by the House the other day, the Government had recommended Her Majesty to appoint a Commission to inquire how far the complaints of the officers as to the grievances alleged to have been caused by the measures taken for the re-organization of the army in India had been remedied by the steps taken for that purpose. That Commission was not yet constituted, but arrangements were in progress for its constitution; and he thought it would be far better to leave the matter in the hands of that Commission.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said,
 296 The Times
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply to the first part of the Question of the hon. Member, that the delay in the production of the Return had been the result of sick ness in the Department, which had crippled its efficiency; but he believed that the desired information would be laid on the table in the course of a few days. With regard to the second question, he was not aware of what was meant by the pro test of Lord Elphinstone, and he was un able to find any trace of such a document. In answer to the remaining question, he washed to say that the Bombay Government, in accordance with the views of the Commander-in-Chief, were of opinion that the force employed in the particular ser vice to which the hon. Member referred were not entitled to the medal, and the India Government arrived at the same conclusion. It was asked why the medal had been given to the Madras force while it had been withheld from the Bombay force, but the fact was that it was not given to either force. The principle adopted in the case of the forces in India was to give the medal to those men who had been employed in the field against the mutineers, and to confine it to them ex clusively.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer has exonerated the officers of the Civil Service from having divulged his intentions as to the Budget, on a late occasion, such information must not have been supplied from some higher
 300
 MR CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said he wished to ask the First Commissioner of "Works, To state the circumstances under which the Cartoons of Raphael have been removed from Hampton Court to the Kensington Museum, and also who is to pay for the removal?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentle man the First Commissioner of Works, whether it was the intention of the Government to carry out to the letter the recommendation of the Commission not only with reference to the pictures for which Votes were taken in the present Estimates, but also with respect to pictures yet to be painted?
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he thought that all the arguments which had been used in the course of the debate rather went to support the proposition of the abolition of the law of removal, than to justify an alteration in the mode of rating. As to the allegation that while population had increased houses had diminished in num-
 328 "It is essential to the right working of the Poor Laws that their administrators should be intimately acquainted with the condition and history of all parties claiming relief; and the smaller the divisions the more likely is this to be the case, and the more will every increase of the rates be likely to attract the notice of these and make them inquire whether it be indispensable. Had the project for supporting the poor by a general tax been adopted, each individual, conscious of the impotency of his own efforts to re duce the amount of national poverty, would have thought as little of its reduction as of that of the National Debt; and in consequence abuses of every sort would have prevailed. It is only by bringing the burden home, as it were, to the doors of individuals, and making them feel that unless it be confined within the narrowest possible limits it will make a serious inroad on their estates and properties, that a compulsory provision has been or can be kept from degenerating into an incentive to sloth; and it is plain that this principle will operate more effectually in a moderate sized parish than in a union, and in the latter than the kingdom at large, where, indeed, it would not operate at all." 329
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that this Bill was only the necessary consequence of the legislation of the last twenty years with reference to the Poor Law of which hon. Gentlemen opposite had been the main supporters, and therefore they had no right to condemn it as unjust and unfair. It would, in fact, be the complement of that legislation; it was required for the purpose of restoring the balance between town and country; and he, therefore, felt hound to give it his support. He himself lived in a parish which would be benefited by the Bill. It was a large parish, answering in character to a town. Its rates amounted to 5 s. d.; s. s.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, when he gave his notice to refer the Bill to a Select Committee some weeks ago he expected that there would be ample time to report before the close of the Session. After the declaration of the right hon. Gentleman that there would not be time to complete the inquiry this Session, and as lie had promised to appoint a Select Committee next Session, if it should be required, he would, with the permission of the House, not press his Motion.
 MR. SCHNEIDER  said, that in 1857, when he was examined before the Select Committee, lie was opposed to the rating of mines, but the hon. Gentleman the Member for Cornwall, who was a Member of that Committee, was in favour of it. The hon. Member for Cornwall proposed that mines should be rated to their full value, but he was then opposed to their being rated at all. They had since modified their views and approximated towards each other, and he was now of opinion that there ought to be no difference whatever in the rating of mines and quarries. But what he wished to call attention to was the peculiar position in which the mines were placed. Coal mines were rated on every conceivable principle it was possible to imagine. Mr. Joseph Pease was of opinion that, as the  corpus 342
 MR. J. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether the Government has determined to withdraw its recognition of the Belligerent Rights of the (so-called) Confederate States of America?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he did not like to interrupt the hon. Gentleman when he was speaking. The hon. Member for Shorebam (Mr. Cave) had introduced the question of mines because he had given notice of a clause to that effect; but in a conversation he had with him he pointed out to him that the clause was not relevant to the subject matter of the Bill, and he would now respectfully point out to the House that to discuss the subject of mines was not relevant to the matter before it.
 MR. J. TOLLEMACHE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, The cause of so long a delay in the settlement of the question as to the terms upon which English salt is to be admitted into France, under the reciprocity treaty between the two countries, and what is the present state of the negotiations thereon?
 MR. KENDALL  said, that as he had been appealed to personally, without discussing a subject which was not immediately before the House, he would venture to express a hope that the House would obtain some expression of opinion from Her Majesty's Government, admit ting the principle of rating mines, plantations, and woods, and proposing to deal in some practical manner with that difficult subject. With regard to the general question, he would only observe that, to judge of the efficacy of this Bill, it was necessary to know how common charges have worked from the commencement. Having been Chairman of a large Union, he could ex plain that their effect upon the Board of Guardians was this—the moment there was a common charge, and a pauper applied for relief, the notion of the guardians—especially if it were near the dinner-time—was how, in haste, to get the man, by hook or by crook, upon the common charge. If they failed to do that, they then began to look into the case and see whether the man was really a pauper or not. If, on the other hand, they succeeded in getting him on the common fund, the guardians immediately gave up all care of the man—he was none of theirs. He thought that the results of the measures would be—first, that the guardians would be careless and would not attend; next, that there would be no security against expense; and third-
 346
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When it is intended that the new Rule for open competitive examinations for the Civil Service in India, fixing the maximum limit of age at twenty-one years, is to have effect; and whether there will be any objection to postpone its operation until such a time that it cannot injuriously affect persons who have studied for the examinations under the belief that the old Rule, making the maximum limit twenty-two years, would not be altered; and to ask what publicity has been given to the new Rule; whether its publication by the Civil Service Commissioners or the Secretary of State has been confined to the note at the foot of the printed "Regulations for the Open Competition of 1865," or has it been published in the English, Irish, Scotch, Colonial, or Indian Official Gazettes, as well as in some of the London and provincial newspapers?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, these Cartoons, now that they were more visible than they had been hitherto, were shown to be very much damaged indeed, and he wanted to know whether any steps had been taken to ascertain the best means of preserving them from further deterioration?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that from the inquiries he had made he was led to believe that very shortly the salt duties in France would become the subject of legislation. There had been a lengthened investigation, which he believed had now terminated, and probably during the present Legislative Session in France a project of law would be prepared. Of course he knew nothing as to what the details of the measure would be, but it would be proposed with a view of reducing the present heavy duties on salt going into France.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, it was true that there had been the accident which the hon. Baronet had referred to, but an examination had since been made, and the vessel reported to be in a satisfactory condition.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that no instructions had been given by the Board of In land Revenue on the subject, but an inquiry had been addressed to them to know whether in their judgment a duty of five shillings upon certificates of marriage signed with the name of the officiating clergyman was exigible or not. The reply was, that in their opinion it was be yond all doubt. That, he apprehended, was the state of the law, and beyond that neither he nor the Board of Inland Re venue had any knowledge whatever. The certificates of the performance of any other religious office were charged with a similar duty; but the case had been pro vided for by law, inasmuch as the duty on extracts from the marriage register, which answered the same purpose, was only liable to a duty of one shilling.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he knew nothing about that, but undoubtedly if it became known to the Controller of the Inland Revenue in Scot-
 299
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord the Member for Had-
 303
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is true that Mr. Henry Sedgwick Wilde, when Registrar of the Court of Bankruptcy at Leeds, was called upon by one of the Bankruptcy officials, by authority, to re sign his office, and that he refused to do so; whether Mr. Wilde was then informed that, if he would resign at once and obtain a medical certificate, he should have a pension of £600 a year, although he was then in a good state of health; whether he did obtain such medical certificate and resign, and was the pension so promised granted or sanctioned by the Lord Chancellor; was Mr. Wilde, on his resignation, succeeded by Mr. Welch, who was then in a precarious state of health; was it arranged that Mr. Welch should hold the office until the reversal of the outlawry of the Hon. Richard Bethell; and was Mr. Richard Bethell's appointment made out after his outlawry was reversed, and did he attend the Bankruptcy Court at Leeds on or about the 24th of February last, and state to officials that he was appointed Registrar?
 MR. W. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the Return moved for on the 20th March relative to the grant of the Indian medal to the troops and police employed in suppressing the Mutiny and Rebellion in the Bombay Presidency will be laid upon the table; and why has no action been taken on Lord Elphinstone's protest to satisfy the troops and police who were promised the medal, and then refused by the Commander-in-Chief (especially in regard to the police, who wore under the Civil power, and not subject to any control whatever from the Commander-in-Chief); and on what principle does the Secretary of State for India explain the distinction he has made in granting the medal to the men at Kolapore, under General Jacob, and denying it to those who were engaged in other parts of the Bombay Presidency?
 MR. MURRAY  said, he wished to ask in addition, Whether any petition was presented by Mr. Wilde to the Lord Chancellor explaining the causes which rendered his retirement necessary; and, if so, whether the truth of such explanation was verified by his affidavit.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, it seemed to be admitted by all the Members who addressed the House upon the subject that the Bill would confer an advantage on the towns at the expense of the country; and if that were so it was manifestly desirable that they should have an inquiry for the purpose of ascertaining what would be the amount of the gain upon the one side and the loss upon the other. It had been stated, as a justification of the mea sure, that landowners had been in the habit of driving the poor out of their parishes: but so far as his experience went in his county, that statement was utterly unfounded. About thirty years ago the country gentlemen were told in official reports that the agricultural parishes were too crowded, and that every inducement ought to be held out to the inhabitants of the rural districts to migrate into the manufacturing towns. It was too bad, therefore, to accuse landlords of what the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board now charged them with. He had not heard a single authentic case of such a mode of proceeding in that county during the last thirty years; and he was convinced that if the Bill were passed it would not cause one cottage more to be built or one cottage more to be pulled down. He did not believe that cottages were either built or destroyed with a view to diminish the poor rate. It was, no dobt, true that proprietors like the Duke of Bedford or the late Duke of Northumberland, who erected a better kind of cottage, invited a more independent class of tenants, and so lessened the pressure of the poor rate; but that was evidently a legitimate mode of accomplishing the object. He wished to observe that some of the figures in the Returns which had been presented to the House might mislead those who were not acquainted with the details of each particular case. He knew
 335
 MR. WATKIN  said, that he did not intend to discuss the merits of Dr. Hunter's report, for in his argument he could afford to admit that that report did not represent the real condition of the agricultural population, and he could follow the right hon. Gentleman in thinking that it might exhibit a bias. The real question before the House was whether inquiry into this Bill was necessary. Every one knew that its provisions were in accordance with the original intention of the distinguished men the authors of the New Poor Law, and every one also knew that it was in accordance with the views of the greatest minds upon the Committee on Poor Laws, which sat in 1847. Upon that Committee, and declaring in favour of the principle of the measure before the House, were Sir James Graham, Mr. Poulett Scrope, Mr. Thomas Buncombe, Lord Harry Vane, and Sir George Grey. And then, again, the Committee of last year actually recommended that a measure should be brought forward. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board had adopted the recommendation thus made, and brought forward this measure with the most conspicuous ability. This mea sure would be always connected with the name of the right hon. Gentleman, and it would form a brilliant sequence to the credit due to him for his exertions in favour of free trade, with the principle of which—namely, that of free exchange, this measure was intimately connected. What were the House now asked to do? Why, to refer this Bill to a Committee, notwithstanding all that had gone before, and to ignore everything of the past in connection with it. The effect of the pro position would be that the measure would be turned over for this Session, and that appeared to be the real intention of many Gentlemen on the opposite side of the House. He asked whether an opposition of this character was creditable to the party making it, and whether it would
 330 d. "The amount to be re-distributed upon the pro visions of the New Law, taking the last two years expenditure, would be about £1,000 per annum or 1 d. 331 s. The Times "The results of the Census of 1861 have shown that throughout England the average number of persons living in each house declined in the pre ceding decennial period, but in upwards of eight hundred agricultural parishes the houses have decreased while the inhabitants have increased." "Unhappily, increase of distance from his work is not the worst evil hence inflicted on the poor man. The families of agricultural labourers thus get crowded into the suburbs of towns, or are thrust into cottages out of repair, the dimensions of which are wholly insufficient. As the children grow up, sons and daughters, father and mother, sleep, it may be, in one room, under circumstances most unfavourable to morality. In times of fever
 332 The Times. The Times, "The Union Chargeability Bill is in itself simple and complete. It will confer a real benefit on the landowners who so unwisely resist it, and it will be a still greater boon to the agricultural labourer. Mr. Bright, commenting some time ago on the condition of our agricultural population, declared that in no other European country was it so entirely divorced from the land. The sober truth is that the misery of the agricultural labourer is not that he is divorced from the land, but that he is tied and bound to it. He is  adstrictus glebœ d.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the
 293
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to know, whether the solicitor to the Board of Inland Revenue had not intimated to the clergy of Scotland that this duty would be charged from henceforth, and whether it was not a fact that there had been no such practice for fifty years?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether instructions have been recently given by the Board of Inland Revenue to exact a Stamp Duty of five shillings on marriages celebrated by clergymen in England or Scotland; and what has been the Revenue from that source in the years 1863 and 1864?
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, referring to the Second Report of the Com missioners of Her Majesty's Customs, 1858 (p. 14); to the Seventh Report, 1863 (p.p. 27 and 94); to the Eighth Report, (p. 26); to the Report of the Committee on the Cattle Diseases Prevention Bill, 1864; to the Report as to the Vaccination of Sheep, 1864; to the Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1862 (Appendix IV.); and to the Letter of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, April, 1865(last eight lines), he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether Her Majesty's Government intend to institute
 298
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he is prepared to suggest to the guardians of the several Poor Law Unions of the Metropolis the advisability of assimilating the dietary tables in the several Union Workhouses in the Metropolis?
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he could not help contrasting the different temper and tone of the debate on this stage of the Bill with that which was displayed on its second reading. The discussion on the second reading was in a spirit of good temper, and augured favourably for the result, but the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board had changed that feeling. The right hon. Gentleman had charged the opponents of the Bill with having recourse to every species of ingenuity in order to defeat the measure, and that they were obstructing the Bill; whereas all they had done was to express their opinion, as they had a perfect right to do, upon a question in which they were so deeply interested. The introduction of that mysterious Re port had compelled them to defend them selves. The right hon. Gentleman told them on a former occasion that there was something coming that would astonish them, and most assuredly it had done so, and it was impossible that those statements should pass without inquiry. The author of the Report—the medical officer of the Privy Council—had published—on the authority of the person he sent out to find cases of a peculiar character for his Report—statements which had created great attention. They denied their accuracy, and they demanded inquiry. As the Report involved charges against the humanity, honour, and good feeling of the gentlemen of England, the Govern-
 343 344 345
 MR. CAVE  said, he had voted for the Motion of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire because he thought it might have been better to try the effect of the Irremovable Poor Act a little longer before introducing fresh legislation and again altering the relative value of property. The House decided by a large majority in favour of proceeding at once with the Bill, and not being opposed to the principle of union rating he had no intention
 338 339 340 corpus "He thought the hon. Baronet had somewhat exaggerated the bad condition of labourers' cottages. … Certainly his own experience did not coincide with all that had been put for ward by the hon. Baronet. … It might be said that almost universally there had been efforts made by all solvent proprietors to improve the condition of cottages upon their estates. He did not think that landlords had been governed by any desire to protect themselves against the operation of the law of settlement."—[3  Hansard, 341
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : In the first place, Sir, I must beg leave to disclaim all responsibility for any prophecies which newspapers may make. They live on the future as well as on the past and present, and it is their business to make guesses, which sometimes are right and sometimes wrong. When they are right they gain credit; when they are wrong people soon forget them. When the time came for my right hon. Friend to prepare and announce his Budget, the world at large was pretty nearly as well informed about it as any Member of the Cabinet. They knew pretty well what was the amount of the surplus from the papers which had been laid on the table and published. Natural sagacity must have led every man to believe that with regard to the Fire Insurance Duty the Government were bound to adopt the Resolution which the House of Commons had come to. It was pretty clear that in distributing the remaining part of the surplus some would go to direct some to indirect taxation. It did not require much sagacity to foresee that there would be a reduction of the Income Tax, and when you look to indirect taxes the Tea Duties form a natural subject for reduction. Therefore, I contend, that on the one hand, there was no great credit due to  The Times The Times
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the course of the transactions with regard to the belligerent rights of the two parties was this. The President of the United States issued a Proclamation declaring a blockade of all the coasts and certain ports of Southern Confederacy, in accordance, as he said, with the Law of Nations. Now blockade, according to the Law of Nations, is a belligerent right which can only accrue to a State which is at war, and I need not say that if there is one belligerent there must be two at least, and therefore the fact of the President of the United States declaring that he established a blockade in accordance with the Law of Nations gave him all those rights which belong to a belligerent in declaring a blockade, the right of capture and condemnation, and the right of search in regard to neutral vessels. The British Government had only one of two courses to pursue—the first, to refuse to submit on the part of British vessels to those belligerent rights on the ground that there was no formal belligerent on the other side. That was not a course which was at all expedient to pursue; and, therefore, the only course left us was to acknowledge and submit to those belligerent rights; and that necessarily involved the recognition that the other party was also a belligerent. Whenever the Government of the United States shall declare that it ceases to exercise, with regard to neutrals, those rights of search, capture, and condemnation which belong to the belligerent, then, of course, the war will, as far as
 297
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether there is official confirmation of the report contained in yesterday's African intelligence, to the effect that a
 390
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Report of the Ordnance Select Committee upon this subject had been received. That Report was not entirely favourable to any of the systems of conversion that had been submitted to the Committee. It was, how ever, possible, that as a temporary measure a certain number of Enfield rifles might be converted upon one of the systems, or a modification of Borne of them. The subject was still under consideration, and therefore it was not true that any order had been given for the conversion of 60,000 rifles upon the Mont-Storm or any other principle. As soon as any decision had been arrived at he would be prepared to state it to the House, and if required, to produce the Report of the Select Committee on the subject.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that last year plans were prepared for the erection of buildings for the reception of the Natural History Collection of the British Museum. Other plans were also transmitted to the Trustees of the Museum for their consideration. He was now in communication with the Trustees upon the
 391
 MR. COWPER  said, the plans were for the erection of a building to contain all the Natural History Collections upon ground already purchased at South Kensington, which property had been purchased with the view that such buildings should be erected. Therefore, these plans seemed to be the necessary sequence of the steps previously taken by the Government.
 MR. COWPER  said, the question was rather vague as to time, because he did not know when the hon. Gentleman would visit his constituents. He could not fix any definite time, but the ordinary course of taking the sense of the House was by producing an Estimate of cost, which the House could accept or reject as it pleased. That Estimate would be produced as soon as the requisite preliminaries to the formation of it had been gone through. It could not be before. [An hon. MEMBER: Will it be this Session?] He should be unwilling to enter into the region of prophecy. He was at present in communication with the Trustees relative to the plan, and when it was finally agreed upon the Estimate would be laid on the table without a moment's delay on his part; but it certainly was asking too much to ask him to say when the plan would be decided on and the Estimate produced?
 MR. COWPER  said, the hon. Member had better give notice if he wanted to know about the Bill, for he was not in a position to say anything about it. All he could say was that when the Estimate was ready it would be laid on the table.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, a Bill has been in course of preparation with the full expectation of its being introduced this Session, but further consideration has rather added to the difficulties attendant on the subject, and I believe it will be hopeless to think of passing such a measure this Session. While on my legs I desire to add something to the answer I gave last night to the question put by the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand). Since then I have received a letter from Mr. Welch, the Registrar of the Leeds Court of Bankruptcy, which ought to have reached me yesterday, before I made my statement. Mr. Welch, in that letter, re quests me to make a statement which in one point would have added more complete ness to the answer which I then gave. With regard to himself, Mr. Welch states that he was unconditionally appointed by the Lord Chancellor in July last to the
 393 "That Mr. Bethell did not attend the Leeds Court of Bankruptcy in February last, or at any other time; and that all the officials to whom he has spoken, deny that Mr. Bethell ever told any of them that he was appointed Registrar, or that they ever said so; and they add that they do not even know Mr. Bethell's personal appearance."
 LORD STANLEY : I think my lion. Friend the Member for Taunton (Mr. A. Mills) is entitled to our thanks for having brought this subject before the House. No one is now, I believe, opposed to the principle of competitive examination for appointments in the Civil Service of India. Even my hon. Friend the Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane), who was one of the most consistent opponents of the system, has expressed a wish that it should have a fair trial. It is, however, precisely because no one objects to a principle which we believe to be sound in itself that we ought to take all the more care that it does not suffer in popular opinion owing to mismanagement in detail. My hon. Friend behind me seems to be of opinion that the class of men seeking Indian appointments has become, socially speaking, lower than those who were formerly sent out; but I cannot gather from the information which I have obtained on the subject that that is the case. So far as I can form a judgment, I believe that the social position of those young men who go out now is pretty much what it has hitherto been; while there would appear to be a higher degree of average efficiency than before—though it is but fair to say that a certain number of those who have come in at the bottom of the list when the competition was not so severe did not reach a very high standard of efficiency. Again, it is said that these well-paid Indian places are not sufficiently valued to make the competition for them real and effectual. But the answer to that allegation is the simple fact that there have been about 450 vacancies during the last ten years, and that for these there have been about
 403 404 405 406
 MR. GRANT DUFF  after congratulating the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Smollett) upon his conversion, and his accession to the thin ranks of the diplomatic reformers, pointed out that the present Examiners were drawn chiefly from among men who had highly distinguished themselves at the University; and by the natural bent of their minds, and by their training, they would be disposed to show as much favour as possible to the particular class of mind to which the hon. Gentleman opposite desired to give an artificial benefit in these examinations. In our highly organized state of society, where intellectual labour was so much subdivided, specialness was a much more important product than the mind which was capable of mere general adapt ability. That, however, was not the case in India; and there were many men who had done great things in India, and who had always maintained that they owed the power of doing them to the fact that they had been educated, not according to the received orthodox English rule, but on the more desultory scrambling system which prevailed fifty years ago, more than now, at the Scotch Universities. As British rule got more consolidated in India, there might not be so much want for that kind of man, but for some time to come there would be room enough for the small sprinkling who were now-a-days sent there.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he rose to call attention to the Report of the Select Committee on the Bankruptcy Act of 1861 and the existing state of the Laws in regard to Debtor and Creditor, and to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the Report of the Select Committee on the Bankruptcy Act of 1861 deserves the prompt and serious consideration of Her Majesty's Government." 421 s. d. 422 . s. s. d., d., d. s. s. s. 423 s. s. ad valorem 424 425 "Is it not a mistake to attempt, in a system of rules for the collection and distribution of the assets of a bankrupt, to create a code for enforcing commercial morality?" "A very large part of the present bankruptcy law relates to the manner in which a certificate or discharge shall be granted or refused to a bankrupt, to his protection from arrest, to the liability or non-liability of future acquired property, and to the punishment of the bankrupt in the event of his being found to have committed any act which the bankruptcy law treats as contrary to commercial integrity. This attempt to combine the punishment of the dishonest or reckless debtor with the collection and distribution of his remaining property is in my judgment a very great mistake. It has led to the most expensive and most unsatisfactory and imperfect part of the present system. I would abolish it altogether. If a man has committed a fraud, let him be punished by the existing criminal law. If that be not severe and stringent enough, make it more so; but do not attempt to administer criminal law, or  quasi- 426 s. d.
 MR. KINNAIRD  expressed a hope that the claims of the Natives of India to be employed in the Civil Service of the country would not be overlooked. He had not heard a word in the debate with reference to them.
 Mr. AYRTON , in seconding the Motion, said, he wished to explain the nature of the Resolutions to which his hon. Friend was anxious that the Blouse should then give a general approval. His hon. Friend must have satisfied any one who heard his statement that our present system of bankruptcy law had entirely failed. But if that complete failure was the only result at which Parliament had arrived after devoting itself to that subject for a period of nearly 300 years, they must approach that subject with extreme distrust of their own opinions; and he himself should have hesitated to advocate the adoption of these Resolutions had he not believed that, under lying the whole system of our legislation on that question, there were some radical errors which it was the object of the Committee to induce the House to abandon. The first of those errors was the notion that the imprisonment of a debtor at the instance of a creditor was one of the best means of obtaining the satisfaction of a debt; and it was a little remarkable that in a country like this, which professed so much respect for personal liberty, such an idea should have so long survived. In former times when violence prevailed imprisonment might have been a natural remedy in these cases; and, moreover, our system of law in those days did not give the suitor an adequate remedy when he had obtained the judgment of a Court in his favour. The result was that although the creditor had acquired a right he was practically unable to enforce it, because the law
 427 428
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he had on different occasions brought under the notice of the House the question of the Civil Service Examinations, not in reference to India only, but in connection with the administration of the Empire generally. For the last two or three years, however, he had not taken an active part in reference to the question, as he thought it would be better to wait and see how the system of Civil Service Examinations worked, and that they might have an opportunity of judging what were likely to be its results before he offered any comments upon it. But now that one important branch of the question had been brought before the House he might ask whether the information from India showed that the result had been satisfactory. He was sorry to say that the opinion of the public in India was that though the men lately appointed possessed great ability and information, they were deficient in many qualities which were absolutely necessary to form good officers and good men of business. His hon. Friend had touched upon the feeling displayed, which almost amounted to prejudice, throughout the papers presented to the House against University education, so far as the Civil Service was concerned; and it was certain that the number of University men appointed to that service was less than formerly. This change, too, had taken place when the standard of education in the Universities had been very much raised. He was sorry to find this was the case, as he believed that, independent of the learning which it insured, the mental discipline of the University gave that tone to the character of the men which was an esential quality in those filling responsible situations, and which could not be tested by any examination whatever. In support
 397 "It is not improbable that they will in some cases be reluctant to give up the pursuit of University distinction; but if well advised they will at once lay aside other subjects, in order that they may devote themselves the more assiduously to those in which they will be examined. It should be distinctly understood that in the further examination the requirements of Universities or Colleges will not be regarded as affording an excuse for I imperfect preparation. Each candidate in choosing his place of residence for the year should carefully consider what facilities will be afforded him for the prosecution of his studies." 398 "Explain the titles—Iconoclastes, Colasterion, Tetrachordon, Smectymnuus, Histriomastix, Annus Mirabilis. What was Pope's opinion of Dry-den as a poet? Quote passages in support of your answer. Name the authors of the following works, and arrange them in order according to the date of their death:— Religio Medici; Utopia; The Battle of the Books; The Thistle and the Rose; Rasselas; The Davideis; The Essays of Elia; Madoc; The Rejected Addresses; Don Sebastian, Revenge, Cato, The Rehearsal." "Give an account of the theory of placentation in plants, mentioning any cases which are anomalous. Describe the structure and homologies of the great lateral muscular masses of fishes, and explain the mode of progression of fishes. De scribe the structure of the eye in one of the following animals—birds, snails, or spiders. State the nature of the food, and trace the process of ingestion and assimilation in one of the following cases—rhizopod, whelk, toad, snipe. What is the doctrine of specific centres of organic life? State the leading arguments on either side." 399 vir humanitatis; "Money was brought by a ship from New Zealand for one of the bankers of the town, and it had to be disinfected by being placed on a brazier," thus—"  L'argent qu' ils apportent pour an de nos banquiers a étémis sur un chauderon." "On craint que le mal se communique dans ces jours caniculaires," The Doctor.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he rose to call attention to the existing Regulations for the Examination of Candidates for the Civil Service in India, and to move an Address for Copy of all Correspondence on the subject between the India Office and the Civil Service Commissioners which has not yet been laid before Parliament. The hon. Member said it was now about ten years since the system of competitive examination for the Indian Civil Service had been inaugurated—chiefly on the strength of a report of the late Lord Macaulay—and it had continued to prevail since with out material alteration. He did not, there fore, intend to go into the various questions which surrounded this subject, or to discuss the question, which had sometimes been raised, whether it was or was not an improvement on the system which it displaced. The only question he wished to put before the House was simply whether the present system was so constructed as to insure the best possible men for the Indian Civil Service, and at the same time not to interfere with the best interests of English education. The system was set forth in the Regulations now in force. The fourth Regulation laid down that the subjects in which the examination should be conducted should be not only English language, composition, literature, and history, including that of the laws and constitution, but also the language, literature, and history of Greece, Rome, France, Germany, and Italy; mathematics, pure and mixed; chemistry, electricity, and magnetism; natural history, geology, and mineralogy; moral philosophy, Sanscrit, and
 394 "The following figures show the proportion of candidates from the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, taken together, to the whole number of those selected:—In 1855, 70 per cent furnished by Oxford and Cambridge; in 1856, 55 per cent; in 1857, 50 per cent; in 1858, 60 per cent; in 1859, 55 per cent; in 1860, 41·25 per cent; in 1861, 43·75 per cent; in 1862, 30·2 per cent; in 1863, 25 per cent. In 1864 the places of education of selected candidates were not given in the list published." "This school of 500 boys draws from just those strata in society which naturally supply candidates for the East India Company's service. Moreover, a great number of our boys are at this moment anxious to go to India; quite one third of my highest form of 30—fellows who have worked their way up the school, and nearly every one of whom will get scholarships at the University; nearly every one of them good at games, manly, and hardworking; would give anything to go, but, under the present system, they have no chance, or next to none. They must leave us to insure success, at sixteen or seventeen, just when school life is beginning to be most valuable; give up all idea of education in a good sense, and try for two or three years to cram as large a field of subjects as possible. If they do this, experience shows me that those who have good or fair recep-
 395 "High marks were got by candidates who never read any English author except a manual, nor any history except a half-crown abridgment. We cannot teach in this way." "The practical effect of the existence of this subject is to load men with another grammar and alphabet which they mean to carry for three months and forget as soon as possible. It in creases the great vice of the examination—namely, that it makes a man's mind like a town that has been abandoned while building, which was to have contained all sorts of grand edifices, but in which hardly a house has reached the first floor." 396
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS , in reply, said, he did not wish to reduce the number of subjects of examination; but he thought it would be sufficient to examine the candidates for the service on three or four branches of knowledge, irrespective of their place of education. He also thought that the time for the candidates to go out should be fixed, and not subject to arbitrary change. After the statement of the right hon. Gentleman that the papers would be published in the appendix of this years' Report, he did not wish to press his Motion.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to know when the Bill would be ready to be laid on the table, because it was the Bill, not the Estimate, which would
 392
 MR. NEATE  said, that this was not so much a question as to the mode of examination as to its principle, which de pended upon the formation of the scheme. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) who preceded him that the scheme for the examination of candidates for Civil Service appointments in India was of far too extensive and miscellaneous a character. The principle of the scheme ought to be to place the knowledge which was required of candidates for the Civil Service of India in harmony with the higher education of this country, including in that term, of course, both Scotland and Ireland. The existing scheme really went much beyond the general education of the higher classes. The maximum number of marks that could be obtained by the suc-
 400 401 minutiœ 402
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : Sir, I shall refer very shortly to the various observations which have been made in the course of the de bate. I am rather surprised to find that my hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Smollett) should suppose that the opinions which he quoted from Mr. Montgomery Martin's book are mine. The fact is, that those opinions are those of Mr. Montgomery Martin, and I entirely disclaim any responsibility for them, though Mr. Martin had recourse to official documents for his information. My noble Friend is mistaken also in respect to the nature of the examination which took place under the noble Lord who preceded me in the India Office (Lord Stanley). I think there were thirty vacancies when the noble Lord introduced that examination; and it was of a most elementary character, being what is commonly called an examination in reading, writing, and cyphering. I do not think it necessary to go into the ques-
 414 415 416 417 418
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was sorry to say that he did not understand the purport of the Question of the hon. Member. No naval officer, that he was aware of, held command at Singapore under the Government of India.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he should be glad if the hon. Member would repeat his Question on a future day, after the Bill for transferring Singapore to the Colonial Department had been introduced.
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, he had received an official confirmation of the report to which the noble Lord referred. It was not, however, that a new war had broken out among the tribes near Lagos, but, on the contrary, the termination of the war that had so long raged and had been attended by such disastrous consequences to the colony. It was true that British troops took part in the decisive action which terminated that war. That interference was not in consequence of any per mission or directions from the Home Government, as all their orders had been to the Governor to avoid any interference with the Native tribes. The Governor justified the step which he took upon this occasion upon the ground that the colony was threatened with invasion, and therefore his proceedings were but in self-defence. The accounts he had received led him (Mr. Cardwell) to believe that the affair had been conducted with very great skill and gallantry by an inferior force against a vastly superior force. The result bad been a decisive success without the loss of a single man of Her Majesty's troops, and he should have much pleasure in laying the papers on the table.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he had intended to put a Question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who he conceived would have been the proper person to give an answer upon the subject, but he was told that the matter fell within the Department of the First Commissioner of Works. He would therefore ask the right hon. Gentleman, When he will bring on his scheme for the enlargement of the British Museum; and if it will be before Members began to separate in anticipation of the General Election?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know whether the scheme involved the removal of some of the departments of the British Museum to South Kensington?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he was afraid we did not get the best men under the present system. It was much to be regretted that the effect of the Civil Ser vice Examinations for India had not been to bring forward more men who had passed creditable examinations at Oxford and Cambridge, as it was originally supposed they would have done; whereas, on the contrary, the number from that class had of late years fallen off very considerably. The reasons brought forward to account for this disappointment were inadequate; for he did not believe that scholarships and tutorships at the Universities—the prospect of going to feed sheep in Australia, or of emigrating to any of the other colonies—possessed nearly the same attractions for young men in this country, as were exercised by the Indian Civil Ser vice. He believed that many eligible young men were deterred from competing for the posts which it offered by the nature of the examination instituted, which was conducted on principles diametrically op posed to those recognized in our great schools of learning. With regard to the
 407
 MR. H. H. VIVIAN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If the Committee on Converting the Enfield Rifles into Breech Loaders had reported; and, if so, whether they had recommended any plan for the adoption of the Government; and whether it be true that an order has been given, or is about to be given, for the conversion of 60,000 rifles on the Mont-Storm principle?
 MR. HENNESSY  maintained that the last Return of the Civil Service Commissioners contradicted the assertion that they had laid down a system which was inconsistent with the system of education at the public schools and Universities. The two gentlemen who stood No. 1 and No. 2 in the list had been examined in English, Greek, Latin, French, German, Italian, and two Eastern languages; and, putting aside the two Eastern languages, these were just the subjects which were taught at our public schools and Universities. The same might be said of all the other gentle men who had passed successfully. It was a fact, too, that those who had succeeded had taken up a smaller number of subjects than the unsuccessful candidates. He
 413
 MR. J. R. YORKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, with reference to a Petition presented some time since by Dr. Leone Levi, Whether any conclusion has yet been arrived at by the Lords of the Treasury on the subject of granting a subsidy to a work published by him, entitled  Annals of British Legislation?
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he would not enter into the question of examination for the Civil Service of India, nor into its method. He wished to discuss a different matter altogether—namely, as to how this
 408 esprit de corps 409 "The general administration of British India is conducted in its higher department by Europeans, who form what is designated the Covenanted Civil Service. Appointments therein may now be contended for by all the natural-born subjects of Her Majesty above eighteen and under twenty-three years of age, of sound health and good moral character. The elections are decided by the result of public examinations, the first of which is in English composition, the literature (including the laws and constitution of Britain), and history of England, Greece, Rome, France, Germany, and Italy; in mathematics, pure and mixed; in natural science (chemistry, electricity, magnetism, natural history, geology, and mineralogy); in moral science (logic, and mental, moral and political philosophy); and in the Sanscrit and Arabic languages and literature. Six months afterwards the candidates are subjected to a further examination in English composition, in the history and geography of India, and in the elements of the Bengalee or of the Hindoostani languages." esprit de corps 410 Progress and Present State of India, "Formerly the patronage of the Covenanted Civil and Military Services was monopolized by a few families connected with the East India Company. Considering that the members sprang from the middle and higher classes, and that ample emoluments, high prizes, and an immense field for the development of talent was afforded them, it is remarkable how few rose above me diocrity." "The abolition of monopoly, the open area for election, and the healthy principle of emulation, have infused new and vigorous blood into an effete system. In 1859–60 120 candidates were elected after severe competitive examinations for the Indian Civil Service; they have sprung from every class of English society; sons of druggists, ironmongers, tailors, upholsterers, drapers, undertakers, farmers, stewards, millers, butchers, printers have obtained appointments by the exercise of talents which they would not formerly have been permitted to bring inside the walls of Haileybury. And now, there is no official, from the Governor General down to the district officer, who has not
 411 412
 MR. TORRENS  called the right hon. Baronet's attention to the inconvenience and hardships which had been occasioned by the recent alteration of the maximum age at which candidates could be examined from twenty-two to twenty-one years of age. He had recently received a letter from a gentleman who said that he had spent a largo sum of money in educating his son specially with a view to this Indian examination. His son had foregone collegiate honours with the same view, in the hope that there would be two chances of examination, one at twenty-one and the other at twenty-two; but now, at four months' notice, he found that he was deprived of one of these chances. No doubt there were many others in the same situation. He thought a longer period might be allowed to elapse between the time at which such changes were announced, and that at which they came into operation.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, the purport of his Question was this:—There were certain Officers commanding vessels under the control of the Indian Department at this moment in the Straits of Malacca, and their impression was that in the event of the transfer of Singapore to the Colonial Department, their services would be altogether dispensed with, and they would be replaced by officers of the Royal Navy.
 MR. MITCHELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether, in the event of the transfer of Singapore from his Department to that of the Colonies, full provision will be made for the continued employment of naval officers holding command under him in the Straits of Malacca?
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is his intention to bring in a Bill this Session to amend the laws relating to Patents?
 MR. GREGORY  said, the House wanted to know whether an opportunity would be afforded to them of expressing an opinion upon the question whether the Natural History Collection should be removed to South Kensington. They wished to have a definite answer to the question whether the House of Commons would have an early opportunity of expressing their opinions upon this subject, or would the decision be deferred until lion. Gentlemen had gone back to their constituents?
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he could not quite agree with the right hon. Baronet (Sir Charles Wood) that the object of competitive examination was to throw the Indian Civil Service open to all classes, whatever their colour—it was to get the best educated men they could. Ht believed it was the opinion of Lord Macaulay if the Civil Service of India were thrown open to competitive examination, the result would be that the "flower of the educated youth of England would flock to the East." The reverse, however, had been the case, and for several reasons. The Indian Civil Service was not what it
 419 esprit de corps physique, "It only lead to young men rushing over to France or to Germany in order that by that means they might acquire a knowledge of the French or German languages, and thus obtain 100 or 150 more marks for their score, which would be of no practical use to them in India."
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, that he might state that the young man to whom his hon. Friend had alluded was a nephew of Sir John Lawrence. It was reasonable that notice should be given of any change in the rule as to age.
 MR. F. PEEL , in reply, said, the conclusion the Treasury had come to was, that they ought not to propose a subsidy for this publication. If there were any public offices which desired a copy they would have authority to purchase them, but the Treasury was not prepared to purchase copies for distribution in the Colonies and Public Departments as was proposed in the Memorial.
 MR. ESMONDE  begged to ask where the hon. Member found those extracts.
 MR. ESMONDE : Then I object to a translation. I call on the hon. Member to read the Latin.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he should give his cordial support to the second reading of the Bill, and if he wanted arguments in favour of that course, he should find them in the powerful speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. He should, he might add, vote for the second reading with the full intention when the Bill went into Committee to do everything in his power to bring about an assimilation of all oaths. The Secretary for the Home Department threw out upon that point a most valuable suggestion, for he referred to the expediency of dealing not only with oaths which were taken at the table of that House, but also to those which were administered throughout the country by various tribunals; and he would venture to call the attention of the House to the discursive nature of some of the oaths which were now imposed—not upon Ro man Catholics solely, but upon others who were obliged to take them with pain to themselves. Hon. Members had not for gotten the celebrated "Durham Letter" in which the Prime Minister of the day thought fit to state that the oaths administered to a large portion of the clergy of the Church of England were so stringent that they were in the habit of swearing to the Thirty-nine Articles and the supremacy
 471
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, there would be an opportunity of testing the value of the oath when the debate on the Irish Church was resumed. The right hon. Gentleman would then see whether the majority of the Irish Roman Catholic Members would be found voting for the spoliation of the Irish Church or not. But was it from the Roman Catholics that the Irish Church had most to fear? He believed the constant and organized attacks directed against that Church for the last few years had proceeded much more from those who were opposed to all religious establishments whatever. The Wednesday attacks, which were the distinguishing features of the remarkably dull Session of 1862, emanated in every instance from
 472
 MR. KENNEDY  expressed a hope that
 473
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the charge imposed by the Bill was merely a local charge; and it was not necessary in that case that the clause should have been first considered in Committee, or be printed in italics.
 MR. HENLEY  would ask the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for Ireland, whether the £49,000 was not to come at first into the possession of the Revenue? He desired to have an answer to the question, because it concerned the point which had been raised as to the form in which the Bill had been introduced; for, if the money was levied in the first instance by tax or by licence, and received by the Board of Inland Revenue, the subsequent destination of the money would not in any way take the measure out of the ordinary category of Taxing Bills.
 MR. HENLEY  did not think that his question had been answered by the right hon. Baronet. Who was the Registrar to whom the right hon. Baronet referred?
 MR. HENLEY : Then he is really an officer of the Imperial Government?
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the Bill did not appear to him to be a Taxing Bill in the proper sense of the word. The money raised under its provisions would neither be taken to the Exchequer nor carried to the public account. It was a mere local charge given to a certain officer in Dublin, and ultimately transferred to the counties.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  called the attention of the hon. Member for the King's County to the fact that by one of the clauses of the Bill the money raised by this tax was to be paid to the county or borough treasurer, as the case might be, and was to be applied in alleviation of the local rates.
 MR. AYRTON  was of opinion that this was nothing more nor less than an Inland Revenue Bill, and that the usual course, therefore, ought to have been pursued with regard to its introduction.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that although the question was one of importance, the point could not be further discussed as it was now a quarter to Six o'clock.
 MR. LEFROY  said, that he would also refer them to the opinion of Dr. Cullen, who protested against any system which proclaimed the unrestricted circulation of the Bible, and gave to every one the right of thinking and acting as he wished. Such language was in great contrast with that of Dr. Doyle and others previous to the passing of the Emancipation Act. He (Mr. Lefroy) wished it to be understood that he did not desire to maintain unnecessary oaths; he could not, however, regard this oath as standing in that position, inasmuch as it formed a public guarantee
 434 435 The Tablet, 436
 MR. LEFROY  rose to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. In doing so he experienced mingled feelings of regret and satisfaction. The right hon. Gentleman who had brought this matter forward with great moderation and force of argument had said that it was one which concerned the consciences of many of our fellow subjects. He (Mr. Lefroy) however did not intend to deal with it as a religious question. He would treat the matter not in respect to religion but to the Church as a temporal establishment. It had been well said by a dignitary of the Church at the present day, the Church of Christ rested upon a rock, and could not be shaken by man's efforts; but the Establishment itself was of human formation, and being affected by human attacks it became those who thought it was necessarily and essentially connected with the religious part of their worship to defend it. He must therefore remind the House that the oath now sought to be abolished had been thought necessary by the leading statesmen of both parties at the time of the passing of the Catholic Relief Bill, as a security for the Estab-
 430 431 "The state of Ireland has been the object of His Majesty's continued solicitude. "His Majesty laments that, in that part of the United Kingdom, an Association should still exist, which is dangerous to the public peace, and in consistent with the spirit of the constitution; which keeps alive discord and ill-will amongst His Majesty's subjects; and which must, if permitted to continue, effectually obstruct every effort permanently to improve the condition of Ireland. "His Majesty confidently relies on the wisdom and on the support of his Parliament, and his Majesty feels assured that you will commit to him such powers as may enable His Majesty to maintain his just authority. "His Majesty recommends that when this essential object shall have been accomplished, you shall take into your deliberate consideration the whole condition of Ireland, and that you shall re view the laws which impose civil disabilities on His Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects. "You will consider whether the removal of those disabilities can be effected consistently with the full and permanent security of our Establishments in Church and State, with the maintenance of the Reformed Religion established by Law, and of the Rights and Privileges of the Bishops and Clergy of this Realm, and of the Churches committed to their charge. "These are institutions which must ever be held sacred in this Protestant Kingdom, and which it is the duty and the determination of His Majesty to preserve inviolate.—[2  Hansard, "The measures which I propose for granting relief to the Roman Catholics are founded upon two great principles: The abolition of civil distinctions on account of the religious creed of the Roman Catholics; and the maintenance, intact and inviolate, of the integrity of the Protestant Church, its worship, its discipline, and its government. These measures will restore the equality of civil rights; but they will give no favour or encouragement to any form of religious worship, excepting that which is incorporated by fundamental laws with the constitution of the State, and which claims the respect, veneration, and affection of a Protestant people." 432 "There appear to me numerous and cogent objections to this proposal. In the first place, it is dangerous to establish the precedent of limiting by law the discretion by which the duties and functions of a Member of Parliament are to be exercised. In the second, it is difficult to define beforehand what are the questions which affect the interests of the Church. A question which has no immediate apparent connection with the Church, might have a practical bearing upon its welfare ten times more important than an other question which might appear directly to concern it." "In the meanwhile the Bill will provide an oath, to the effect following: An oath to which the Roman Catholic can have no valid or con scientious objection, which will incorporate the substance of the oaths of allegiance and abjuration, and will disavow all belief in the temporal or civil jurisdiction within this realm of any foreign authority … The Roman Catholic who will take this oath surely gives us every security which an oath can give, that the difference in religious faith will not affect his allegiance to the king, as his capacity for civil service." "In the course I have taken, I have been mainly influenced by the anxious desire to provide for the maintenance of Protestant interests; and for the security of Protestant establishments. This is my defence—this is my consolation—this shall be my revenge." 433
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that as he had taken a part in the discussion of this question in a former Session, and had always felt a deep in-
 439 440 441 442
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : I spoke only of the temporalities of the Church, not of the Church itself.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  observed, that he had not made use of that expression.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that the question which had been raised had already been decided by the Chairman, and the discussion ought, therefore, to be confined to the merits of the Bill.
 MR. WHALLEY  saw no reason why the whole of the money should not go to the public revenue.
 MR. WHALLEY , in seconding the Amendment, said, that although he concurred with his hon. and learned Friend that this Bill ought to be rejected he based his opposition on different ground. His reason was, that if a change in that matter were desirable it ought to be pro posed by the Government, and upon their responsibility; and they ought not to leave the opposition to the measure in the hands of private Members. If they thought that the oath to be taken by Roman Catholic Members should be altered, they ought themselves to have brought forward a Motion distinctly proposing the alteration; and if they thought otherwise they ought to have opposed this Bill in its introduction. The present oath was framed in the year 1829, and was framed for the purpose of placing Roman Catholic Members upon the same footing as other Members. The oath, in fact, divested Roman Catholic Members of the obligation to carry out those pretensions of their Church which might be supposed to interfere with the patriotic discharge of their duties in Parliament. He therefore hoped that if by passing this Bill the House removed the
 437
 MR. WHALLEY  would not read the Latin, but he would hand it to the hon. Member. [ Cries of The hon. Member, amid much interruption and cries of proceeded to read extracts from the book. 438 The Times
 MR. WHALLEY : I am reading from a translation. The originals are in Latin.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I thought the right hon. Gentleman did make use of that expression; but, at all events, he described it as "futile." Now, the old oath which was taken eighty years ago, contained the very words of the oath that had been taken without objection long before there was a dispute as to the Church Establishment in Ireland. The present oath was copied from that taken in 1754, and the same words were used in the oath of 1793—I mean the words having reference to the settlement of property. Those words are—
 "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws; and I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, as settled by law, within this realm." "And I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom. And I do solemnly, in the presence of God profess, testify, and declare that I do make this declaration and every part thereof in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." 447 "We hereby solemnly declare that we will do any act calculated to overthrow the Church Establishment in Ireland for the purpose of establishing a Roman Catholic Church in its stead." 448 A Proposal for Religious Equality in Ireland "I have a clear conviction that Catholic Members, however strong may be their impression of its expediency, ought not to vote so long as a solemn abjuration 'of all intention to subvert the Church Establishment,' and a solemn promise not to exercise any privilege to which they are, or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion,' continue to be among the conditions on which they are admitted to seats in Parliament. The faith plighted by those words has been hitherto preserved inviolate. It is free to them, as was done under the guidance of Mr. O'Connell by their predecessors, to assist the Queen's Government, the Members of which are bound, as respects the Church of England, by a still more stringent pledge, in correcting the abuses and retrenching the superfluities of the Establishment. It is their duty to take care that those superfluities are not wasted by reason of the inadequacy and unsuitableness of the channels through which they are distributed, upon purposes which have no connection, or only a nominal connection, with the propagation of religious truth. But they took upon themselves the of lice of legislators with knowledge that a solemn abjuration of all intention to subvert the Church Establishment would be required of them. Having made that abjuration, they are committed by it to a loyal acquiescence in the retention by the Protestant Episcopal Church of a temporal provision adequate to secure its efficiency and the maintenance of its bishops and clergy in competence and honours. What would be thought in private life of the man who having been suspected by a society into which he was desirous of admittance of an intention inconsistent with its most cherished interests, and elected on his solemn denial of it, should avail himself of the privilege of a member to promote the intention which he had disclaimed? If my opinion were less decided than it is on the meaning of the Catholic oath, and I deem the policy recommended by Mr. Miall more hopeful than I believe it to be, I should still think our adoption of it unwise. The Church by law established in Ireland is the Church of a community, everywhere considerable in respect of property, rank, intelligence, and the power of avenging a disgrace on the religion of the Irish people. It is strong in the supposed identity of its interests with those of the Church of England. Nothing short of a convulsion, tearing up both establishments by the roots, could accomplish its overthrow. Nor is it by any means clear that its overthrow would benefit our religion. With the exception of the zealots who disturb the dioceses of Dublin, Ferns, Cashel, and Tuam, 'the sapping and mining' of religious belief has not been thought a worthy occupation by the prelates and clergy of the Establishment, Who shall measure the effects
 449 "If I had the honour of a seat in Parliament I would no more presume to vote for the alienation of any Church property, so long as that oath was in being, than I would blaspheme God or renounce my faith." 450 "The argument for the defendant supposed the rules and discipline of the Church of Rome to be a part of the law of the land, than which there could not be a more monstrous assumption. Even the Canonical law has no dominion in this country, save so far as it has been received, and ratified, and made part of the Queen's Ecclesiastical law, which is itself part and parcel of the law of the realm." 451 "Provided always that nothing in this Act contained shall be held to alter or affect the pro visions of the Act passed in the tenth year of the reign of King George IV. cap. 7, for the relief of Her Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects."
 MR. WHITESIDE : I am referring to what is contained in the oath presented by the Act 10  Geo. "And I do further declare that it is not an article of my faith, and that I do renounce, reject, and abjure the opinion that Princes excommunicated by the Pope or any other authority of the See of Rome may be deposed or murdered by their subjects, or by any person whatsoever. And I do declare that I do not believe that the Pope of Rome or any other foreign prince, prelate, per son, State, or potentate hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, power, superiority, or pre-eminence directly or indirectly in this realm. I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws." "And I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the pre sent Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm. And I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am
 452 453 "Sir,—The  Irish Times 454 455 456 Loud cries of from Members sitting below the gangway on the Ministerial side of the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I understood that it was the Church to which the right hon. Gentleman really referred. I listened to him with respect as one of the Ministers of the Crown, and I must say I never heard more dangerous doctrines than those enunciated by him this afternoon. The Church as one of the institutions of the country was formerly spoken of in very different terms to those used by the right hon. Gentleman. It seemed to me as if the right hon. Gentleman was anxious to accelerate the moment when the vote of the House of Commons might be given abolishing that institution. He doubtless had some passing regard for the monarchy, although his argument against the Roman Catholic oath would tell equally against the oath of allegiance. He said that upon the whole the oath of allegiance might be endured, and thus showed some little regard for the securities for the existence of the monarchy. Now, supposing a man were to start up and ask, "What is the use of the oath of allegiance?—it is of no value in the case of the loyal subject of the Crown, and it will never restrain a rebel," he would go no further than the argument of the right hon. Gentleman would support him, and thus both Church and Crown might be got rid of at once, as has happened before. In speaking of the late Sir Robert Peel the right hon. Gentleman said he paid very little regard to the casual observations of political men upon subjects of great importance, and that Sir Robert Peel had treated the question lightly and superficially. That statement might possibly be right; but while he was speaking I was turning over a book published by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, wherein he sets forth the whole of the private thoughts of Sir Robert Peel upon this very measure which the right hon. Gentleman says was so lightly dealt with by that great statesman. In that book are recorded his doubts and his embarrassments with regard to the measure of Catholic emancipation, the difficulty he had in persuading the King of its necessity, and the manner in which it was carried, and now we are asked to re-open the whole question, which was settled at that time to the satisfaction of all parties. With every
 444 445 "I will restore, without inquiry, all the Roman Catholic gentlemen and noblemen in Ireland who were loyal to the Crown during its troubles, not only to sit in Parliament, but to their property, provided they take such an oath as will satisfy the English nation of their loyalty and their regard for the settlement of the country." 446
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I am anxious to say a few words upon the subject of this Bill. I listened at an early stage of the debate in the hope that the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary and the leader of the House would have risen and would have cleared up the doubts and difficulties which present themselves to my mind as to the course the Government intend to take in regard to the subject-matter of this Bill. We are not dealing with a question of cotton or sugar but with a question which has been described as of vast and fundamental consequence as regards the institutions of this country both at present and in the future. I was sorry to hear from the right hon. Gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. Chichester Fortescue)—especially sorry if he uttered the sentiments of the Government upon the subject—that he regarded this oath as ambiguous, immoral, and offensive, as un intelligible, absurd, and futile. The right hon. Gentleman did not make use of these epithets when carried away by the heat of debate, but used them calmly and deliberately. He said that the Church of England—one of the fundamental institutions of the country—rested merely on the consent of the people, and existed merely by the will of the majority that the oath was no security to the Church of England;
 443
 MR. WHITESIDE : I said exactly the reverse; and I referred to Serjeant Shee, then a Roman Catholic Member of this House, as an authority for the statement that the oath did restrain Gentlemen entertaining opinions like his own from attacking the Irish Church; and the error of supposing that it does not do so is committed by those who themselves do not take the oath.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I said that the King of Italy had been excommunicated.
 MR. WHITESIDE : That was not the question. What I said was that the power was at this moment claimed and exercised by the Pope.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Member that he was guilty of a double irregularity—in referring to a past debate and in reading a Report of it in that House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that if he understood the statement of the Chief Secretary the expenses incurred at the first
 481
 MR. HENNESSY  desired to call the attention of the House to the fact that the Bill contemplated the imposition of a tax in the form of a licence, and that contrary to the usual practice the Bill had not been introduced in Committee of the Whole House, nor the clause relating to this licence been printed in italics. Under these circumstances, he wished to know if the House was competent to proceed with the discussion on the clause?
 MR. HENNESSY  thought that the House was entitled to an explanation of the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the clause referred to by the noble Lord would not admit the interpretation put upon it. The clause said that the expenses incurred by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue and the Registrar under the Act should be paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the licences. In other words, the money, in fact, went to the Board of Inland Revenue. If so experienced an Irish Member as the noble Lord could fall into such a mistake, it was evident that more information was required on the subject. Under all the circumstances he thought
 482
 MR. HENNESSY  wished to know what the counties were to do with the £49,000 if they got it? This was, in fact, a new tax imposed upon the counties, and he should not be at all surprised if that sum were eventually made a pretext for the withdrawal or the reduction by the Chancellor of the Exchequer of that small portion of the Consolidated Fund which those counties at present received.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that this Bill was an inversion of the principle of justice to Ireland. The tax on dogs in England was 12s . s.
 MR. WALPOLE : But if those words relating to the Established Church may be inserted in the oath in Committee, what becomes of my right hon. Friend's main argument, that we ought to have one form of oath for all the Members of this House? This Bill, indeed, will not in any way effect that object, and we, therefore, ought not to be asked to vote for it on that ground. My chief objection to the Bill, however, is that it proposes to disturb the settlement of 1829, to which I think the wise and prudent course is to adhere, and thus avoid the revival of religious feuds. If the House should be of opinion that there are certain words in the present oath which ought to be modified, I should not be prepared to insist on the retention of all of those words; but if the oath is altered at all the alteration ought to be undertaken on the responsibility of the Government—or rather, an oath should be framed by them in the best terms they can devise, placing all the Members of the House in this respect on the same footing. Should such a proposition emanate from the Government I would not oppose the second reading of the Bill in which it was embodied. But the Bill before us is not such a Bill; and this Bill ought, in my opinion, to be opposed, on the double ground that it would disturb the settlement of 1829, and that until the Government are prepared, on their own responsibility, to recommend one form of oath for all the Members of the House it is better to leave matters as they were
 470
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, it is with very great reluctance that I rise to say a few words on this important question. I own I had hoped that all those discussions relating to the oaths to be taken by Members of this House had been brought to an end in 1858. A settlement was then made with the sanction of those who now represent Her Majesty's Government, by which the form of oath was prescribed which was to be taken by all the Members of the House, save those who profess the Roman Catholic religion, and it is with great pain that I once more enter on the discussion of topics which affect the religious feelings of a large portion of the community. Since, however, this subject of oaths has again come before us it cannot be evaded, and the House will, I trust, come, with regard to it, to some definite conclusion. Some arguments have been used by the right hon. Gentleman who last addressed the House (Sir George Grey), which may I think, be removed from the consideration of the question. The point whether an oath is or is not useless for the purpose for which it was imposed is one which can hardly be raised on the second reading of a measure of this kind, which proceeds on the assumption that oaths are still to be taken by Members of Parliament; while the further argument that the form of oath to be taken by Members of the Protestant and Roman Catholic persuasion should be the same is scarcely admissible in discussing a measure which proposes that the form should continue to be different. My right hon. Friend's main argument was that it was desirable there should be one form of oath for all the Members of this House in order that they may, in their legislative capacity, be placed on a common footing. But then the Bill is not a Bill for that purpose, as may be seen by its recital, its enacting clauses, and its title. Its title is—
 "A Bill to substitute an oath for the oath required to be taken and subscribed by the statute passed in the 10th year of the reign of King George IV. for the relief of His Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects." 466 467 "To renounce, reject, and abjure the opinion that Princes excommunicated or deprived by the Pope, or any other authority of the See of Rome,
 468 "And I do declare that I do not believe that the Pope of Rome, or any other foreign Prince, prelate, person, State, or potentate, hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, power, superiority, or pre-eminence, directly or indirectly, within this realm." in foro conscientiæ "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm as established by the laws." "And I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to disturb or weaken the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm." 469
 MR. COLLINS  said, before entering into the merits of the question immediately before the House he wished to make a few observations upon two preliminary objections which had been just raised. It was stated, in the first place, by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), that a measure of this sort ought to have been brought in by the Government; and, in the second place, it was stated that some opportunity ought to be taken to have one form of oath. He (Mr. Collins) fully concurred in the propriety of having but one form of oath. It would be in the recollection of the House that in 1858, when the subject of oaths was before the House and a measure was introduced to blend the three oaths of allegiance, abjuration, and supremacy that were then taken into one, a Motion was
 474 475 "In regard to the oath taken by Roman Catholics he thought so long as the oaths remained unchanged they had no great reason to complain, but now, as the oaths were to be changed, and that portions of them were to be actually expunged from the statute book, they might reasonably demand some alteration of that oath required to be taken by them." 476 "Our form of oath is entirely inapplicable to the present time, that it is a cumbrous form of oath, and that portions of it have really no bearing on the circumstances by which we are surrounded. If the oath is to be taken at all, it ought to be taken in the most solemn form; and brevity, in my opinion, to a great part of that solemnity."—[3  Hansard, 477
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  hoped that the House in its anxiety to destroy these dogs would not sanction an awkward precedent. With all due respect to the Chairman, he could not help thinking that the Bill was to all intents and purposes a Taxing Bill, and ought to be treated in the usual manner.
 MR. MONSELL  asked the hon. and learned Gentleman to read the whole of the clause.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, that his statement with reference to the dogs was that there were 900,000 inhabited houses in Ireland, and that it was very probable that there was on the whole a dog to each house.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I said that there was no reason why hon. Members who simply objected to the Bill on the ground that the words relating to the Established Church were not in the pro posed oath, should refuse to vote for the second reading; I pointed out, however, that the words were open to the objection that they were ambiguous, and were differently interpreted by the highest authorities.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : And are we, be cause the power is claimed and exercised, to impute to our Roman Catholic fellow countrymen that they hold the doctrine that if the Pope should excommunicate the Sovereign they would be absolved from all ties of loyalty, of morality, and religion, and that they would be justified in agreeing to the deposition or even the murder of the Prince? That is the question. This declaration is no security for any thing to which we attach any value, and therefore I am willing that it should be expunged. Passing over the intermediate declaration, I will come to the last clause—because it comes under the same head
 462 "I do solemnly and in the presence of God pro fess, testify, and declare that I make this declaration and every part thereof in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, and without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatever." "I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm as established by the laws." 463 "Solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm," "And I do solemnly swear that I will never exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled, to disturb or weaken the Pro-
 464 465
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not doubt that the Pope may excommunicate if he pleases; but I ask the right hon. Gentle man does he suppose that if this excommunication took place there is a single Member of this House or of the Roman Catholic Church in this country who would not repudiate the doctrine that an excommunicated Prince may be deposed or murdered?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the right hon. and learned Gentleman appealed to
 457 458 459 460 461
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had had no opportunity of giving the House an explanation of the provisions; but be fore the Bill was laid upon the table of the House he had sent a copy to each of the Irish Members, in order that they might have time to give it their consideration and thus facilitate its progress through the House. He had introduced this Bill in compliance with the pledge he had given when the measure of the hon. Member for Londonderry (Sir Frederick Heygate) was before the House. By the Bill it was proposed to levy a tax of 2s. upon each dog, with an additional charge of  6d. 6d.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  wished to explain, he wished to impress upon the House that everybody, or almost everybody, desired that there should be a tax upon dogs in Ireland. That tax had been made as low as possible, namely, 2s. on each dog. The hon. Baronet the Member for Londonderry (Sir Frederick Heygate) assumed the number of dogs in Ireland to be 1,500,000. He himself believed them to number about 2,000,000. He had, however, put them down at 500,000, and a tax of  2s.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Registrar lived in Dublin Castle.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  apprehended that the money would not be dealt with in the manner which the right hon. Gentleman supposed. The petty sessions clerks who received the money would account for it to the Registrar, and the money would remain in Ireland and be accounted for in that country.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Under what circumstances a portion of the expenses incurred by the Bishop of Cape Town in his unsuccessful lawsuit with Mr. Long were repaid to him by the Treasury?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in reply, said, he did not propose to proceed with the Bill that night, but he was
 491
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If any system of telegraphing has been finally approved and adopted for the Army; and, if so, whether there will be any objection to lay upon the table of the House a copy of the Reports of any Committee or Committees on the various systems submitted to them?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Select Committee and other Committees bad inquired into the various systems of military telegraphy, and that recommended by Captain Bolton would, he believed, be ultimately adopted. The measures for the organization of the system were still under consideration; but as soon as they were decided upon he should be able to say what portion of the Reports he would be able to lay on the table.
 SIR JOHN JOHNSTONE  said, he wished to propose an Amendment, the effect of which would be to put the clause in harmony with a new clause he intended to bring up, providing for a gradual approach to the principle of union rating by annual instalments up to the year 1870. He therefore moved in line 14, after "shall," to insert, "subject to the provisions hereinafter contained."
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he did not object to the insertion of the proposed words.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had just taken 2 d. 492 d.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that when he was questioned on the subject the other night he had said that next year the Act for the exemption of stock-in-trade would come to an end, and as that would be an opportunity for an inquiry whether that exemption should be continued, it might also be an occasion for inquiring into all other assessments. If such an inquiry were proposed he should support it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, told them he made this Motion as a test of the sincerity of those who were promoting and supporting the Bill, Therefore the House
 497 498 499 500
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that every step taken to prevent the removal of the poor had been productive of good, but he was somewhat afraid of taking a step so much in advance as that proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. We enjoyed in this; country great liberty of removing from place to place, but he had heard his right hon. Friend (Mr. Henley) say lately that we were becoming the most police-ridden country in the world, and we must he-ware that we do not adopt measures which would render it necessary to have resort to the intervention of the police in matters of removal. There were a great number of persons who went from fair to fair, and a large number of Irish in the metropolis, who were, in fact, a constantly migrating population. It might make landlords much too stringent if they did away with removability altogether, and therefore he was not willing to take so large a step with respect to all settlements. He thought it would be well if a measure of the kind proposed by his right hon. Friend were brought in as a separate measure, and he (Sir William Jolliffe) should be glad if so, to give it his support.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, that he begged to thank the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) for the enlightened views which he had expressed in his speech. As a measure of justice to the poor he thought no one could doubt that these restrictions were most unjust. In this metropolis they were indebted very much to what was termed the migratory habits of the Irish poor. Without such labour they would find themselves at a great loss, and he could not see why, when
 501
 SIR WILLIAM MILES  said, he wished to call the special attention of the House to the evidence recently placed before it, and which was extremely singular in its character, though the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers) had not gone much into it, but had contented himself with making general assertions. The Chairman of the Board of Guardians of the London Union was examined before the Select Committee that had sat on this subject in 1861–2, and he stated, that in his opinion the law of settlement should be abolished. Mr. Blatchford, the Chairman of the Fulham Board of Guardians, said he thought the law of settlement should be totally abolished, but not until the area of chargeability was enlarged, because if they were to abolish it before such a measure as that was adopted, they would swamp some parishes entirely. He (Sir William Miles) entirely agreed with the witness on that point, and he thought his right hon. Friend (Mr. Henley) had, with great propriety, made his proposal as a supplement to the present Bill. He quite agreed with the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) that there should be but one rate for the whole of the metropolis, and he hoped that the hon. Member, and those who thought with him, would support this Amendment, because they might depend upon it this question must be considered very shortly in its entirety. It appeared to him that the present unequal system of rating in the metropolis could not be continued for three years longer. Mr. Esdaile, overseer of St. George's, Surrey, was also examined, and likewise expressed his disapproval of the law of settlement. Mr. I George Goodwin, Chairman of the Board of Guardians of Norwich, stated that he was in favour of making the poor chargeable to the district where they were employed. Mr. George Bowring, clerk of the guardians of the London Union, said the effect of the union rating would be to make the richer parishes pay more and the poorer parishes less. He did not think that union rating would have much effect in increasing or
 502
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that Ireland suffered more than any other part of the United Kingdom under this law of settlement and removal. He was, therefore, delighted at the prospect of getting rid of the ill-feeling engendered by the removal of paupers from England to Ireland. He was Chairman of a Board of Guardians, and it had often occurred that an Englishman had presented himself to the Board for relief which they gave without hesitation. In Ireland, according to law, wherever a pauper was found, the ratepayers were bound to relieve him; whereas paupers were frequently sent to Ireland from England who had completely forgotten their native country. In his own union paupers were all sent to the house, instead of being offered outdoor relief, and therefore they had no wandering vagrants. If it were possible to introduce that system into this Bill, he would give it his support. If the right hon. Gentleman did not adopt the principle at present, he hoped some other hon. Gentleman would at no very distant date introduce a separate Bill for the purpose of carrying out that object.
 MR. PUGH  said, ho should have great pleasure in supporting the Amendment of
 503 "Tune qua parentis Jussa time; neu præceptis parere recusa."
 MR. C.P.VILLIERS : It is quite evident the House wants to come to an early division on this subject. Sir, I cannot help thinking that there is nothing very real in this Motion, and that it is not really proposed for the purpose for which it appears to be moved. Certainly, we have great
 504 505 506 507 508 509 510
 MR. HENLEY : After the honour which the right hon. Gentleman has done me in going back for eighteen years and tracing my opinions during that time, I hope that the Committee will not grudge me a few minutes. And I wish the Committee and I wish the country to observe
 511
 MR. GILPIN  had the greatest possible respect for the right hon. Gentleman, but he rose to order. He said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to be allowed to retract the charge he had made that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Villiers) had stated what was absolutely untrue and what he must have known was untrue.
 MR. HENLEY : If the word "untrue" be unparliamentary, I should be the last person to insist on it. But, when the fact is that after the second reading, but before
 512 513
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he wished to say a word upon the unfair and unfounded insinuation made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) that this Amendment was proposed for the sake of defeating the Bill. Up to this time he had strongly opposed the Bill, believing that it would do great injury to the poor; but he was of opinion that the Amendment would prove such a boon to the poor that if it were carried he should offer no further opposition to the Bill.
 MR. GILPIN  said, that having been connected with the Poor Law Board for some years, he hoped the House would give him its attention for a minute or two. He wished to state what he was sure the light hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) would believe that it was from no want of respect to him, but on the contrary, that he had made the observations he had done. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman in the regret that he had expressed that there should be any recriminations from one side or the other on a subject of the sort. He wished now to call the attention of the Committee to a fact which he thought had not been noticed. If the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman were carried there would be some 30,000 to 40,000 people now receiving
 514
 MR. LOCKE  said, the Select Committee had recommended that in the event of any extension of the area of rating being effected, the necessities of the metropolis should be taken into consideration. He had stated when the Bill was introduced that it would confer no benefit on the metropolis, but would rather entail inconvenience. The metropolitan Members had supported the Bill, and on the last division be bad gone into the lobby with the ayes, as he wished to support a measure which was for the good of the country. The Irremovable Poor Act, reducing the period of irremovability from five years to three years, had thrown a greatly increased burden on the poorer parishes of the metropolis; and if the three years were still further reduced to one, as proposed by that proviso, it was obvious that the injustice done to such poor parishes as St. George the Martyr, Southwark, which had to support the work-people employed in the richer parishes though residing in theirs when they happened to fall into distress, would be infinitely aggravated. Moreover, when the 4,000 poor persons now congregated on the site of the proposed new Law Courts were turned out of their homes, they would have to seek refuge in other districts, and would become chargeable there. It was plain, therefore, that the case of the metropolis required special consideration, and he appealed to the President of the Poor Law Board to pledge himself to bring in at an early period—say, next Session at the latest—a measure to remedy the evils which must fall on the poorer London parishes through the operation of this Bill. That might he accomplished by establishing one rate for the metropolis, and by treating the whole metropolis as one union, as suggested by the hon. Baronet (Sir William Miles). That principle had been sanctioned by the Committee, over which the right hon. Gentleman had presided, and also by the House, and he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman would undertake to give effect to it by legislation. As the wants of the metropolis had been hitherto ignored, it would be but
 516
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he joined in the appeal made to the right hon. Gentleman by the lion. Member for Southwark; but thought it would not be necessary to except the metropolis from the proviso, if the right hon. Gentleman would pledge himself next Session to bring in such a Bill as the hon. Member had sketched out, because it was only after the expiration of one year that the effect of the measure would be felt he thought that if the details of the Bill were interfered with one by one, great injustice would be done to sectional interests. As he understood the Amendment, the one year's irremovability would not affect the metropolis, and therefore it would not be necessary to bring in a Bill to alter the area of charge in the metropolis until next year. Considering the distinct conclusions at which the Committee arrived, he thought the right hon. Gentleman should pledge himself to bring in a Bill next year which would relieve the metropolis and other large towns from the injury which the Bill—on the whole a good one—would inflict in its present shape. Unless the right hon. Gentleman assured them that the measure would not remain permanently on the statute book in its present crude form, he would find difficulty in passing it through the other House of Parliament.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that he supported the Amendment, and believed that the measure altered in that respect would be received with satisfaction as a wise and prudent one throughout the country.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the noble Lord opposite (Lord Robert Cecil) had taken the right view, as it would be objectionable to adopt exceptional legislation for the metropolis. But it was necessary that the right hon. Gentleman should give some assurance that he would in a future year take some steps to relieve the poorer parishes from the gross injustice under which they now suffered, and which would be greatly aggravated by the adoption of the Amendment. If there was any sense of justice in the House they would make the metropolis one rating district, if they abolished the law of settlement and removal or reduced the term requisite for rendering a pauper irremovable.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he adopted, with great satisfaction, the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for South Devon (Mr. Kekewich), who was deservedly a great authority on the subject. Considering what it was possible to pass
 517 518
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, that a report from the Clerk of the City of London Union had first suggested to him the propriety of proposing one year for settlement. He could assure the hon. Gentlemen on the other side that he thought the case of the metropolis so exceptional that when a measure was brought in for extending the area of rating in it, and forming it into one large union, it would have his cordial support.
 MR. WARNER  said, he was glad that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) had accepted the Amendment. Ultimately we must come to the abolition of settlement and removal altogether, and the enlargement of union rating in the metropolis. The Bill would produce a great improvement in the condition of the poor, and would relieve many parishes from unjust burdens which they at present bore. He hoped that they would in time come to a county rating, and perhaps to some national provision for the poor.
 LORD FERMOY  said, there was no argument in favour of a general rate throughout the metropolis which did not apply equally to a general rate all over the country. He wished it, however, to be distinctly understood that the great majority of the metropolis did not share in the feelings of Southwark and the Tower Hamlets as represented by their Members (Mr. Locke and Mr. Ayrton).
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought the noble Lord had forgotten all the evidence and arguments which were adduced before the Committee on Metropolitan Rating. The Resolution of the Committee was unanimously agreed to, and not a witness from Marylebone appeared—the noble Lord not excepted—before them against it. No question of national rating was ever entertained—the subject considered was merely a rate for the whole metropolis. He regretted that the noble Lord now expressed his disapproval of that Resolution.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he thought the clause might be omitted, as there was no Board of Guardians but would refuse outdoor relief to those returning after removal, except under exceptional circumstances.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the clause was simply a repetition of the law as it existed, and he thought it was advisable to maintain the check.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, he thought the clause ought to be made compulsory.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, these local corporations, under their own Acts, were peculiarly jealous of their own privileges, and a number of them had applied to be excluded from the Act. In the face of the strong feeling against the centralization, he did not think they could make the clause compulsory.
 EARL GROSVENOR  said, that he moved the addition of the following clause at the request of his constituents:—
 "When this Act has been adopted by any such Union or Incorporation as aforesaid, and such Adoption has been legally brought into operation in such Union or Incorporation, the Body having the Management of the Relief of the Poor therein shall from Time to Time make Calls in advance for Money for the Relief of such Poor upon the Overseers of the several Parishes therein respectively, on the Basis of an equal Pound Rate on the annual Value of the Property in each Parish rateable to the Relief of the Poor according to the Law in force for the Time being, and shall have the same Powers of enforcing such Calls as they now possess under the Provisions of such Local Act for enforcing Calls or Rates for the Relief of the Poor; and such Overseers shall have the same Powers for making, levying, and enforcing Rates to meet and pay such Calls as they now possess, either under the Provisions of such Local Act or the General Law relating to the making, levying, and enforcing Rates for the Relief of the Poor."
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to give notice that on the bringing up of the Report he should move a clause to the effect that persons over seventy should have the option of receiving outdoor relief; and he should also on that occasion take the sense of the House upon the justice of the Bill itself.
 MR. CAVE , who had placed an Amendment on the paper for the insertion of a clause including mines in rateable property, said that the clause had, since he had placed it upon the paper, attracted great attention in those parts of the country most interested. The present state of things was extremely vague and anomalous. Coal was the only mining produce which was liable to the poor rates, and even stone and clay, when raised to the surface by means of shafts and windlasses, were exempt from rating, though if they were taken from quarries, no matter how deep, they were subject to the rating. No one had defended the present plan, and there was no reason whatever why all mines should not be rated. Metalliferous mines undoubtedly, though frequently more profitable, were more irregular in their returns than coal mines, but that very irregularity was an argument in favour of their being rated, because when the profits were small the wages of the men were reduced and the amount of pauperism, consequently, increased. There might be some slight difficulty as to the details, but the mode of rating would be decided by the tribunals of the country, as it had been in the case of coal he understood that he was not in order in proposing the insertion of the clause, but he wished to take the opinion of the Chairman upon the subject. He might add that, if he were not allowed to introduce it, he should consider it his duty to bring in a Bill at some future time for the purpose of effecting the object which he had in view. He had already on a former occasion explained this subject, and would not now detain the House. He should, therefore,  pro formâ, "Whereas by the Act 43 Elizabeth, chapter 2, section 1, coal mines are made liable to poor rates: Be it Enacted That from and after the passing of this Act all other mines of every description shall in like manner be rateable to the relief of the poor."
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the clause moved by the lion. Member had no relation to the subject of the Bill, and could not, therefore, be inserted.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the clause was not within the scope of the Bill. It belonged more properly to the Union Assessment Act. It was, however, his intention to bring in a Bill for the renewal of the Poor Law Commission; and in which Bill several amendments of the law would be proposed. He had no objection to the amendments embodied in the proposed clause, but he thought they might be more properly introduced into the Bill he had referred to.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he had understood that the hon. Baronet would not propose his clause on the present occasion, but would bring it up upon the Report. He (Mr. C. P. Villiers) had given the clause every consideration, but he was not prepared to adopt it. Several other Members had proposed clauses of the same kind, but had withdrawn them owing to the complication which must arise from the postponement of the measure so long. The clause also had this peculiarity, that it did not admit of the full advantage being given to the poor for five years. His hon. Friend had not stated a very strong case. His own union, that of Scarborough, he said, was anxious for the measure; but he doubted if there were many unions where the increased value of land was so enormous as in that neighbourhood, and where it was still increasing so fast. Scarborough was rapidly becoming one of the most important places in the East Riding of Yorkshire, and he found upon inquiry that if the ratio of all the unions in that district were equalized they would only amount to 1s. in the pound. In consequence of the prosperity of the town the value of property in the neighbourhood was greatly on the increase, and therefore it would be well able to bear the additional amount of taxation. He could not accede to the insertion of the proposed clause, as it would lead to an enormous amount of trouble, without effecting much real good.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he objected to the right hon. Gentleman treating this clause as though it particularly referred to Scarborough. There would be many cases of hardship occur under the Bill; such, for instance, as that of a man who had just taken a lease of a farm with low poor rate; for he would find his liability largely and suddenly increased by it. The lion. Baronet had proposed his Amendment with reference to the general interest, and not that of Scarborough only. He believed the small landowners and tenant-farmers would suffer severely through the operation of the Bill, yet he thought it would be scarcely worth while to press this clause upon the House.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  said, that the burden created by this Bill would not fall upon the large landowners, who
 525
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that he had intended to move the following clause:—
 SIR JOHN JOHNSTONE  said, that he had not called for a division upon the clause which he proposed, because his right hon. Friend (Mr. Villiers) was under a misapprehension that he intended to bring it up on the Report.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it doubtful whether a taxing clause, such as was proposed by the hon. Baronet, could be brought up on the Report. It was not worth while to move any Amendment upon the Preamble; but he thought that it would have been nearer the truth if the Bill, instead of being described as "for the better distribution of the charge for the relief of the poor," had been stated to be "for the relief of certain towns returning Members to Parliament from their fair share of the burdens of the country."
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished to ask how far the lender of a sum of money under its operation would be enabled to satisfy himself, in the event of the business of his debtor showing a loss, as to the actual position of affairs. Would he be entitled to take part in the examination of the debtor's books, or otherwise interfere in the business, as if so he would be a partner.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the clause would leave the law precisely as it stood, except in so far as it would enable a person to lend money to a trader on the understanding that he was to receive a share of the profits, instead of a fixed interest, without by that Act constituting himself a partner. If he were to do anything else which would subject him to the liability of a partner, he might be dealt with as at present.
 MR. MURRAY  said, it appeared to him that when a debtor was likely to come to grief the lender might get his money out of the concern without the knowledge of the creditors. The terms of the contract should, therefore, be known to the creditors. They should know the nature of the advance and how it is to be repaid. If it could be repaid without the public knowing anything about it, the debtor might repay it on the eve of bankruptcy, and have the money subsequently relent to him, but the creditors would not be paid. There should be a provision that, if insolvency existed at the time of repayment, the lender should be liable to his share of the loss. He suggested that a memorandum in writing of the contract should be filed in the registrar's office for the information of the public.
 MR. CAVE  remarked that the very same objection would apply in the case of a lender who advanced his money at a fixed rate of interest. He would be able to withdraw it at any moment he pleased, as
 527
 MR. THOMAS BARING  said, that there was nothing in the clause to show that the lender under its operation was to bear any share of the loss which might accrue in carrying on the business of the borrower. If he were not liable to any loss, was it not clear that he would stand in the position of a preference claimant?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the clause merely enacted that the lender of money upon the terms that the lender should receive for the use of the money a rate of interest fluctuating with the profits should be no more constituted a partner by the Act than if the money were advanced at a fixed rate, and therefore the question raised was not appropriate to the particular matter before the Committee.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not see the force of the objection which had been raised by his hon. Friend the Member for New-castle-under-Lyme. There was, bethought, no difference between the withdrawal of money lent on the condition of receiving a share of profits and that lent at a fixed rate of interest, so far as the general creditor was concerned. There might be fraud connected with the withdrawal in both cases, but then he apprehended the law as it stood would reach a transaction of that kind.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he thought no commercial man could pass the clause as it stood. If the lender was not to bear a proportion of the loss when it occurred, was it to be charged in the following year against his share of the profits?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, no compulsory contract was forced upon any one by the clause. It merely stated that if a person made a certain contract he should not thereby be constituted a partner.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he challenged any Member of the Government to deny that under the wording of the clause cases similar to that which occurred at Liverpool might not happen every day. A man lending £50,000 might draw out of the profits of the concern £100,000, assuming that so much was made in the course of a single year, and after that might draw out his £50,000; and yet in the next year, if it happened to be a season of loss, he would be absolved from any liability whatever.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the Bill did not absolve anybody. The
 528
 MR. HORSFALL  admitted that the clause did put the lender in a somewhat advantageous position, but suggested as a safeguard that some limit—say twelve months—might he fixed within which money drawn out should still be liable to the debts in case of bankruptcy before that period had expired.
 MR. MOOR  said, he moved to leave out Clause 2. In doing so he felt that he was not opposing, but forwarding, the principle of the Bill, Clause 2 being inconsistent with its immediate predecessor. The Bill was brought in to do away with an old principle, and introduce anew and different principle, and it was rather strange that a clause inflicting a penalty should be inserted in order to restrain that new principle. The object of the Bill was to encourage loans of money to traders, but by this second clause the lender was subjected to this penalty, that he should not be repaid his loan in case the trader became bankrupt, until all the other creditors were first satisfied. What did that amount to? Why, to an absolute prohibition. For in ninety-nine cases out of 100 a trader failed to pay 20 s. 529
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the question raised must be considered with regard to the principle involved, and also with regard to the practical operation of that principle. With regard to the principle, the strongest argument in favour of the present state of the law was that a man might, under a change of the law, carry on a business which was not substantially his own without incurring the risks of that business. This Bill did not in any way interfere with the liability of the person carrying on a trade. But it could not be denied that the ordinary creditor would be inevitably influenced by the capital visibly employed in the trade, by the stock-in-trade, and by the means which the trader was able to present to the world as the foundation of his undertaking. Credit was, therefore, given to the trader on account of his visible means or stock-in-trade. But, supposing the person who took no share of the risk furnished all the means, then the whole resources of the undertaking would be derived from the loan so made, and there could be no doubt that there might be some risk of injury if the creditor who went in for an unlimited share of the profits were able to go in also for a share in the assets of the business to which the credit might have been given. The person who advanced the money had sent the trader into the world with the appearance of solvency, and the stock-in-trade ought, therefore, in the first instance, to be subject to the Ordinary creditors. It had been suggested that by possibility the real trader might not hold out his name to the world, that he might furnish ail the means and stipulate for the whole of the profits, and in that way avoid running any risk. This clause was intended to supply a practical security against any evasion of the law of that description. It might be objected that the lender could withdraw the amount of his advances before the other creditors got possession of the bankrupt's property, but in such a case an investigation
 530 pari passu
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was not convinced by the arguments of the hon. and learned Gentleman. It was clear that the Government were afraid of their own measure, for if this clause were agreed to it would substantially defeat it. He had voted for the second reading, because to lend money in the way proposed by the Bill was a fair legal transaction. But he did not see why they should put a penalty on that which they said was a loan. If the Attorney General's argument was sound, he doubted whether the Bill was sound.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if a man lent money at the ordinary rate of interest he could not be said to be investing it in the business, because he left all the benefit as well as all the risk to the man who was carrying on the trade.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that everybody knew that the mercantile rate of interest I was not 4 per cent as for money lent on mortgage. What was the ordinary rate of: interest?
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that of the two arguments, that of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Moor) appeared to him more consistent. If the lender had nothing to do with the loss while the trader lived, why should he be saddled with the loss when the trader died? He agreed with the Attorney General that it might become necessary to bring in a Bill to put some check on the rate of interest in certain transactions. Hon. Members talked of the ordinary rate of interest, but since the repeal of the Usury Laws the interest of money had varied from 1½ to 10 per cent within a few years. There was now no such thing as a legal rate of interest. From all that he had heard he was more than ever convinced of the impolicy of the measure. He would not vote for the expurgation of the clause.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that the hon. Member (Mr. Hubbard) stated that there was now no such thing as legal interest. He should have said that there was no such thing as illegal interest.
 MR. JOHN PEEL  said, that as the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn) had placed upon the paper a new clause on registration he would not press that of which he had given notice, but would accept the clause of the hon. and learned Member, with the addition of a few words which he would propose.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that there was a great difference between the two clauses, and he much preferred that of the hon. Member for Tamworth (Mr. John Peel).
 MR. SELWYN  said, he wished to move the following clause:—
 MR. CAVE  said, that the case of a "limited" company was quite different from that of a firm availing itself of this Bill. In one case the partners were not liable to the whole extent of their fortunes, and it was absolutely necessary that this fact should be known to the world, otherwise the public would manifestly be liable to deception. But here the persons who appeared before the world were liable to their last penny. Why, then, should the word "registered" be put after their names? Such a mark, if it had any effect at all, would really show the public that they had a better security than they would otherwise suppose, and it would tempt them to give greater credit than before, because they would then know that they not only had the security of the partners whose names appeared, but the money of certain unknown capitalists besides.
 MR. THOMAS BARING  said, that if this word was not a stigma, and was likely to give the firm a standing with the public, there could surely be no objection to the use of it, inasmuch as it would do the firm no harm and supplied information which the public ought to know. These persons, though called lenders, were really traders; yet, while they shared the profits, they might guard themselves against a share of the loss. It was only fair to the public,
 535
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he could not understand why registration should be required in the case of money lent at a variable rate of interest any more than when money was lent at a fixed rate. The House should take it for granted that people could conduct their own affairs and would not trust others foolishly. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Selwyn) said that a person lending money might take almost all the profit of the business, but it was not likely that a man working a concern and exerting all his ingenuity in carrying on the business would allow nearly all the profits to be carried off by another. But whatever the arrangement might be, it was entirely matter of bargain between the borrower and lender, and he did not think that the use of the word "registered" was at all necessary. He agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Cave) that this was an entirely different case from that of a limited liability company.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought that the proposed clause, if added to the Bill, would prevent it from being of any use. In looking back to past times they found that there had been constant difficulty about letting people make contracts with respect to money, and it was only after a great struggle that the Usury Laws were repealed and persons were permitted to contract for loans of money at any rate of interest they might think fit. The present measure was a sort of supplement to the repeal of the Usury Laws. It was now said that if persons in trade borrowed money at a fluctuating rate of interest they ought to be registered. He could not agree with that proposition; and, indeed, he regarded it as opening a door to fraud, for a man might get a credit which he would otherwise obtain by writing in a book in a public office that some person had lent him £10,000 or £12,000. There was no provision in the clause against a fraudulent entry. No man was obliged to give another credit, and if the people were asked to supply an individual with goods or to lend him money, it was their business to see that he was a person who could be relied on. He did not see that where there was no limitation of liability, and when a man was responsible to his last shilling, which was the position of the person to whom credit was given, they should require this registration. Seeing
 536
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he had received several letters, including one from the Chamber of Commerce at Leicester, requesting him to oppose the Bill unless a provision similar to that proposed were inserted.
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, the question had been argued as if the person carrying on business was bound to carry on the business in his own name. That was not implied in the Bill. It seemed to him that it would be quite possible, as the Bill now stood, for a member of a well-established firm to retire, and for the remaining partners to carry on the business with his credit. If he left any money in the firm he would be liable to a certain extent only, though the concern would benefit by his name. Again, it appeared to him that it would be competent for any large capitalist to retire from his business, and put in his place some one of comparatively limited means, and the person carrying on the business would thus have the advantage of the names of the established firm. It was for this reason that he thought registration desirable, as it would be the means of directing the attention of the commercial world to the exact position of the firm.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if any person held himself out to the world as a partner, he would be liable under this Bill just as much as he was under the present state of the law. He must disclaim the interpretation which had been put upon his former arguments by his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Selwyn). What he had expressed last year and what he still adhered to, was the opinion that it was proper a partnership should appear to the world to be what it really was. Speaking of the Bill brought forward last Session by the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Scholefield), he had said that if they created a new description of partnership, having in it some members with limited liability, and some without it, it was right that that new description of partnership should be advertised to the world as what it was—a partnership of a peculiar kind newly constituted under a particular law. But the present Bill proceeded on a better principle than the measure of last year, making a man no longer
 537
 MR. C. TURNER  said, that a man who lent money on condition of receiving a share of the profits was really and practically a partner. He was a partner as far as regarded the profits; the only thing was that the Bill would relieve him from the position of a partner as far as regarded the losses. The President of the Board of Trade said there was no difference between a person who lent money for a rate of interest and one who lent money for a share of the profits; but in practice there was a great distinction between them, and it seemed to him that parties who objected in these cases to the word "registered" must be ashamed of the real nature of their transactions. If they meant fairly by the public, and did not intend to deceive it, he could not see why they should have any aversion to that word; and he should therefore cordially support the Amendment.
 MR. BOVILL  said, that a division took place in the House last year on the very point they were now discussing, when the Attorney General supported a clause to the same effect as that of his lion, and learned Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Selwyn). The House then affirmed the principle of registration, and thereupon the Bill was abandoned. The Attorney General suggested last year, that those who carried on business in a way different from the ordinary way, ought to be held out to the public as carrying on business in that different way.
 MR. DENMAN  said, that as a point of order, he put it to the Chairman whether the clause was not in principle the same as that which had just been disposed of.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the clause of which the hon. Member for Tamworth (Mr. John Peel) had given notice was not moved by him, and therefore it was competent to any hon. Member to move it; but seeing that the clause so closely resembled that which bad just been disposed of, he did not think it was competent for the hon. Member (Mr. Horsfall) to propose it.
 MR. BOVILL  said, the two clauses could not be identical in principle, because the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) who proposed this clause, had voted against the clause of the hon. and learned Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Selwyn).
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the clause last disposed of contained two propositions. The combination might be objectionable, while one proposition by itself might be worthy of approval. For himself he opposed both clauses, but, as a matter of fairness, he thought this clause ought to be put.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, if the Committee desired to divide, the Clause should be put.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he wished to move a clause of which he had not given notice, to the following effect:—That persons who had taken profits, and who had contributed the capital upon which credit was given to the firm, should be responsible for one year to return those profits to the creditors should the concern become insol-
 539
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was inconvenient to discuss a clause of which notice had not been given, but he was informed that the law, as it at present stood, guarded against collusion between partners, and would compel a return of the money under the circumstances described. He thought, therefore, it would be better not to limit the period of liability.
 MR. BOVILL  said, the clause was not directed against collusion, and that certainly the law would not meet the case which he had suggested, and which would frequently occur under this Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in the judgment of his right hon. Friend and his own too, the law as it stood did as much as it was politic or necessary to do, and would deal with all cases of collusion between debtor and creditor for the withdrawal of capital within the year of bankruptcy. Although he did not pretend to say there might not possibly be some cases in which creditors might be defrauded, he thought that the Bill provided reasonable securities by exposing to the risks of trade capital embarked in a business and not withdrawn, and leaving to the operation of the law as it now stood cases in which such capital was collusively withdrawn.
 MR. C. TURNER  said, he thought that some protection should be afforded to the public for handing back the money in cases in which capitalists embarked their money in a business with the intention of enjoying the profits, and put an irresponsible party forward as the owner of that business.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the object of the clause was to allow the magistrates to grant licences under special circumstances. Care should be taken that the objects of the Act should not be nullified, or that its original intention should not he departed from. While persons attending markets at an early hour should have accommodation, care should be taken that others not entitled to such privileges should not come in.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that having made a false step in the first Bill we were now likely to commit a greater error. In the first Bill the police were allowed to interfere with respect to the opening of public-houses during certain hours; but this Bill would vest a power of selection in justices of the peace. He wished to take away altogether the power from the police, and place it in the hands of the justices who originally granted the licences, consistently with the whole course of legislation on the subject. It was not necessary here to consider if they were the proper persons to grant licences or not, but under the provisions of the present Bill it was better they should exercise the powers it conferred than the police, because they acted
 543
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that so far as he understood the Amendment of the hon. and learned Gentleman it proposed to supersede the "local authority" altogether. It would, he considered, be absolutely impossible to carry out any such provision. It was impossible that the justices could for see the occasions of granting such extension of a licence, which in fact arose from day to day—when a ball was given at an inn, or when a public dinner took place there. On these occasions application was made to the police for licence to keep the house open beyond the legitimate hours, and it would be quite impossible to make these constant applications to the justices each time that an occasional licence was required. It was, too, quite impossible that they could, at the time when the annual licences were granted, ascertain when the occasional licences would be necessary. When an occasional licence was granted it became necessary that decorum should be maintained, and where it was not maintained if a similar extension was applied for it would be refused. This power had been for some time exercised by the police, and there had not been the slightest complaint of its having been in any way abused. It would then, he considered, be unwise to disturb the existing state of things.
 MR. COX  said, he had no objection to the Amendment of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets. He would say farther, that when he was preparing the measure he would have introduced a clause in the same spirit, had he not expected to bring down upon him from Her Majesty's Government a much
 544 545
 COLONEL EDWARDS  was happy to hear that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Homo Department had conceded one point in favour of those who attended the markets; but there was another interest—namely, that of the compositors, who as a class were exposed to great hardship.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  reminded the Committee that the question now before them was simply whether these occasional licences should be granted by the police authorities or by the justices.
 MR. ROEBUCK  desired to know from the right hon. Gentleman the Homo Secretary whether, under the circumstances, he intended to oppose the Amendment of which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had given notice, which proposed to give to two justices the power to grant licences under the particular circumstances he had mentioned. This was different class of licences from the other. Could he doubt that they ought not to be in the hands of the police? He thought they ought to be granted by the magistrates, and not by the police. This did not do away with the occasional licence, which remained with the police. He asked whether it was wise to oppose the proposition of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, if it was put on that ground, he saw no objection to it. He did not think there was any great objection to this class of permanent licences with regard to markets being in the hands of the justices if it was understood that the occasional licences would be left with the police.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, it would be quite time enough to discuss the second propo-
 546
 MR. AYRTON  said, the question before the Committee was to confine the power of the justices to the granting of permanent licences. He did not wish the Committee at this stage to pledge itself to anything to be done on any subsequent clause.
 MR. HENLEY  said, they were opening grave questions. The more they kept the executive office separate from the exercise of  quasi
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he had no desire to infringe upon the existing law, which he thought had conferred a great benefit on society, but he must say that the law did inflict a great hardship upon a meritorious class of the community—he meant the compositors who were engaged on morning newspapers in this town. While so engaged, they carried on employment in a vitiated atmosphere, and when they had concluded their labours between two and four o'clock in the morning, they were unable to procure refreshment. It was quite true that in the office of the leading journal there were facilities for affording refreshment to the men employed on it, but that was not the case with respect to the minor offices, and the consequence was that the men employed in these offices were unable to obtain that refreshment which they stand
 547
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that as the matter now stood he did not see how the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) could entertain any fears on the subject. By the Bill a tribunal of two justices was constituted, and applications for licences had to be made in open day and before the public. The right hon. Gentleman had conceded the right of persons attending the public markets to have refreshments. He thought this right imperative. But why deny it to compositors? Why should they not have the same privilege as that accorded to hon. Members, who, if they kept up till one or two o'clock in the morning, were permitted to obtain refreshments at their Club or even in the lobby of the House itself? It was said that by this Bill the compositors would be prevented from indulging in drams. Was it possible to believe that men, whose labour required such a large amount of intellect, could be guilty of such debasing pursuits? Why should those intellectual and highly accomplished men be deprived for two hours of necessary refreshments? These men, it should be recollected, were working for us. Why should they, while working for the public at large, be deprived of their cup of tea or coffee, or their glass of wine? What possible harm could it do to concede to them this privilege?
 MR. CRAWFORD  concurred in the view that the compositors should not be deprived of the privileges of having refreshments during their work. Consider the satisfaction enjoyed by the public in having the newspaper on the breakfast-
 548
 MR. HENLEY  also hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give way on this point. What, he asked, were public-houses provided for, but to give what people could not at all times get in their own houses? And how were they, in that House, to define what the people of this great metropolis wanted, and at what hours they should have what they required? Were they, before procuring refreshments, to go before a magistrate and prove that they had "a lawful calling?" It was cruel, in his opinion, to refuse what was asked. Members of that House were in a line of life to procure refreshments when they pleased—they might keep their servants out of bed to provide them; but these poor people could not do so. Their wives and children go to bed, and they were unable, therefore, to obtain any refreshments whatever when they most required them. They worked harder than we do, and what harm can possibly occur from granting a licence to let them have refreshments at a certain hour? If any harm occurred they had a police to prevent any bad consequences, and it was unjust that, because there were some loose houses, the whole should be closed up.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he only wished to secure the advantages which had been already conferred on the community by the Act of last Session, and it was therefore he proposed to insert the words "lawful occupation." The effect of this clause would be to give power to the licensing magistrates to supersede the Act of 1864. ["No, no!"] Hon. Members cried "No, no," but the cabmen on their stand were following their lawful trade, and under the provisions of this Bill the proprietor of any public-house in the neighbourhood of a cab-stand could apply for an exceptional licence. The words of the Bill went to that extent. Compositors were one class;
 549 The Times
 MR. COX  said, he presumed ho knew more of his own Bill than the right lion. Gentleman did. He (Mr. Cox) said, the words of the clause would be a complete answer to the observations of the right lion. Gentleman as to this proposal producing such terrible disaster in the metropolis. The words were "It shall be lawful" & c.," upon the production of such evidence as such justices shall deem sufficient to show that it is desirable for the accommodation of any considerable number of persons attending any public market or following any
 550
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, it was not half an hour since, in the lobby of the House, he was in communication with the Secretary of the Manchester Association, who distinctly told him—(probably he was in the House now)—that he approved of Mr. Cox's Bill in its entirety, and that he bad no objection whatever to it; and yet they had beard read from the table of that House an adverse report, he supposed, from the Manchester Association—[Sir GEORGE GREY: No!]—a report condemning the Bill of the hon. Member for Finsbury altogether. The compositors were a class of people frequently employed from six o'clock at night till four in the morning. They were confined in printing establishments during the whole of that time, and he maintained that when they came from their work it was essential that they should have some refreshment, and some shelter in case of need, seeing that some of them had four or five miles to travel home.
 MR. GOSCHEN  suggested, that instead of the words "following any lawful trade or calling," the words should be adopted, "or engaged in their usual occupation in the composition or compilation of the daily paper"
 SIR GEORGE GREY  then proposed a proviso to this effect—
 "That the house shall be within the precincts of the market at which such persons attend, or at a distance of not more than fifty yards from such precincts and that in regard to persons following a trade or calling, the house shall be within fifty yards of the place where the persons are so employed"
 MR. COX  said, that this was a reasonable proposal, and he would not object to it.
 MR. HENLEY  suggested that there might not be a public-house within fifty yards.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, fifty yards was a reasonable distance.
 MR. ROEBUCK  wished to give a discretionary power to the magistrates as to distance. Such peddling legislation was beneath the dignity of the House. If the magistrates could not be trusted on a matter so simple as this they should not be intrusted to perform the more grave duties committed to them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill did not propose to leave anything to the decision of the magistrates. [Mr. ROEBUCK: But I do.] He thought it desirable to fix the distance. It would relieve the justices of great difficulty if that were done. He had no objection to 100 yards, but the limits should be defined.
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was absurd to lay down a rule which would prevent a man from obtaining refreshment because a house was a yard more or less from his place of business.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the feeling of the House was strongly opposed to the proviso he should not put Members to the trouble of dividing again. The proviso had only been proposed in deference to the representations from licensed victuallers and other residents in the neighbourhood of the markets.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  then moved the addition of the following provisoes:—
 "That a printed notice stating the days and special hours during which, and the class of persons for whom, the house is open under such licence shall be affixed in a conspicuous position outside the house; "That such persons only shall be admitted during special hours as belong to the class for which the house is licensed to be opened during those hours"
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  wished to know how it was possible to carry out such a provision. Was a man to write on his forehead that he was a compositor, or was the provisoto
 552
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the object of this Bill was to limit the licence solely to the persons of that class, and for their accommodation alone. It would prevent publicans keeping their houses open to prostitutes and persons of bad character.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that as the police would know the circumstances under which each licence was granted, they would be able to report if the conditions of the licence were not complied with; and if prostitutes or other bad characters were admitted, the licence could be at once cancelled. The public could have no greater protection.
 MR. COX  said, that there was an immediate power of withdrawal vested in the justices.
 MR. COLLINS  thought the first proviso an excellent one, and therefore suggested they ought to be put separately.
 MR. HUNT  thought the people who propose to use the houses during those hours ought also to be licensed; for it would be necessary for each man to have a ticket to show the occupation he was engaged in, to entitle him to be served.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed that this proposal would render the Act almost inoperative. A man wanted to keep his house open half an hour or an hour beyond the usual time, on the occasion of a dinner, for instance, and he got a licence at once by-applying to the authority specified in the Act. He hoped the House would not disturb the arrangement made last year with regard to the occasional licences, as it had worked exceedingly well.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  thought the right hon. Gentleman was not quite right in what he had just stated to the Committee. He said they had only to apply to the police to get an occasional licence. Now, he had a letter from the Chief Constable's Office, Town Hall, Manchester, December, 1864, which stated—
 "In reply to your letter I am to inform you it is not the intention of the authorities to grant any occasional or special licences under the Public Houses Closing Act." 554
 MR. EWART  was understood to say that occasional licences could not be got in Liverpool.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the report of the Mayor of Liverpool did not bear out the allegation that occasional licences were invariably refused.
 MR. COLLINS  said, the magistrates knew the character of every licenced victualler in the country, but that was not the case in the metropolis, and could not be.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, the Scotch Act gave this power of special licensing to the justices, and there was no reason why it should not be so in England.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, it was to two justices in petty sessions.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if there was to be this restriction to two justices it would restrict the operation of the Act.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it could not be so. People did not get up great balls at an hour's notice, but knew of them a week, I or a fortnight, or a month beforehand, and justices could meet in petty sessions at any time. Where there were no petty sessions, two justices could do it. There would, therefore, be no delay to complain of. He hoped that the Committee would rescind the error which they had committed in giving the police the power of granting these licences.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he did not think that any error had been committed in giving the power of granting occasional licences to the police, and he therefore thought that that power ought to be left in the hands of the police, and not be given to two justices. He believed that the parties most interested would rather that the power of granting the licences should be continued in the hands of the police, and not be transferred to justices of the peace.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  was of a different opinion. He thought that the power of granting the licences in question ought to be given to the justices, as proposed by the Amendment.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Government were willing that the hon. and gallant Gentleman should nominate eight Members of the Committee, but it was only reasonable that the Government should nominate the other seven Members.
 COLONEL FRENCH  then moved the adjournment of the House.
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty (in reference to Return No. 269, delivered on Friday last), The reason why, notwithstanding that Votes were taken for 10,000 Marines on shore in the Estimates for the year 1863–4 and 1864–5, the number actually borne on the strength of the divisions on shore at the end of 1863–4 was only 8,712 men, or 1,288 short of the Vote, and only 8,970 men, or 1,030short, at the end of 1864–5; whether, in preparing the Navy Estimates for the next financial year, the Admiralty would object to add to the tabular statement (now given in Appendix No. 1) of the number of men and boys "more or less borne than voted," on the first of every month, a similar statement in respect of Marines, distinguishing the number afloat from the number on shore; and whether there would be any objection to distinguish between the Coastguard afloat and the Coastguard on shore, in the tabular statement referred to?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the Chapter House had been shut up since the removal of the Records, but if any one wished to see it he could obtain permission to do so upon application to the Office of Works.
 MR. COWPER  said, he had not considered the point very much. Some expense would certainly be entailed, and he doubted whether the interest of the public was so great as to warrant the outlay that would be requisite.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I think, Sir, that probably on no former occasion has the House heard so extraordinary a question as that of the hon. Gentleman. When I saw his Notice on the paper that some questions were to be put to me upon a matter of public interest,
 490
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that it was quite true that the number of Marines was considerably below the number voted on the 1st of April, 1864. There was a deficiency of nearly 1,000 men, and not 1,288 men, as stated by his right hon. Friend, the number voted being 18,000, and the number serving 17,061. Although the Marines on shore were below the number voted, yet of Marines afloat, including the number sent to Japan, there was a very considerable excess. The reason of the number being below the Vote was that there had been a considerable difficulty in procuring really efficient recruits at that time. With respect to the Return of 1865, he had to state that on the 1st of April the number serving was within fifty-five of the number voted. There would be no objection to placing upon the Estimates a statement of the Marines, as distinguished from the seamen and boys.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, this Bill bad been framed in accordance with the recommendations of a Committee of the House which sat last year. That Committee was of opinion that the great works proposed in our dockyards and basins should be executed as rapidly as possible, the evidence of engineers having satisfied its Members that such a course was very desirable in the case of works exposed to sea risks. They reported that a great saving of expense would result from diminishing as much as practicable the time occupied in completing the works. The Committee had recommended that the Government should be empowered to give contracts for the whole of those works, to be spread over a certain number of years. This Bill provided that the Admiralty should have power to give contracts for the works in two of the dockyards—Portsmouth and Chatham. In the case of the former the maximum amount of the contract was to be £700,000, and the maximum sum to be made payable in any twelve months on account of the contract £250,000. In the case of Chatham, the maximum amount of the contract was to be £650,000, and the maximum sum payable in any twelve months £200,000. The maximum duration of each of the contracts was to be five years. The Admiralty did not propose to take powers to raise money by this Bill, but merely to grant contracts very similar to the mail and packet contracts subject to an annual vote. A copy of every contract entered into under the Bill was to be laid before both Houses of Parliament within thirty days after the contract was made, if Parliament was sitting, and, if not, within thirty days after the next meeting of Parliament. With respect to the works which the Admiralty proposed to execute at Cork, they were not included in the Bill, because the Department found that they should be able to execute them within five years by convict labour. He begged to move the second reading of the Bill.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I wish to ask you, Mr. Speaker, whether it is competent for a Minister of the Crown to quote in his place letters and papers which he is not prepared to lay on the table?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer or the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any Bill is to be introduced this Session, and when, for the removal of certain Collections now forming part of the British Museum, and whether such Bill ought not to be introduced, and the sanction of the House obtained to its main principle, before any expense is incurred in the preparation of plans and Estimates for the erection of buildings elsewhere, to which the said Collections were to be transferred?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General, If he intends to proceed with the Bill to amend the practice in Crown suits, or will delay it until after the holydays, to give time to consider if the practice of registering Crown debts can he amended by Clauses to be introduced to render it unnecessary for  boná fide
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know when the Estimate would be produced?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know, whether there would be an opportunity for a fuller explanation of the matter before the Estimates?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the powers taken in the Bill related only to contract, and if the hon. Baronet (Sir John Hay)
 542
 MR. SPEAKER : Public despatches, documents, and papers relating to public affairs, if read and quoted by Ministers, may be called for to be laid on the table. But the Attorney General has stated the distinction which he draws in this case, and which distinction certainly appears to me to be a just one.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that it would be produced as soon as questions now under discussion between the Board of Works and the trustees had been settled. Those questions related to the internal arrangements of the building, and it would be necessary to produce perfect plans when they asked for the money.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not think the alteration could be submitted to the House, and he was glad of it. The proposal of the hon. Baronet to provide for these works by loan was a method of proceeding which ought not to be attempted upon any light grounds, or except in cases of absolute necessity; it would constitute a precedent perfectly contagious, destructive to the control of the House of Commons over the public expenditure, and be certain to lead to financial embarrassment and confusion. That was upon the merits. But, in point of form, he believed it was not competent for the hon. Baronet even in Committee to propose that this money be raised by loan.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if further explanation was desired, the hon. Member could move for the correspondence.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he would endeavour to give the hon. Gentleman the clearest answer in his power. The question of the introduction of a Bill during the present Session for the removal of any portion of the collections of the British Museum must necessarily depend upon the prior question when the Estimate could be produced in reference to the expenditure, and when the opinion of the House could be taken upon it. That was the very point of the hon. Member's objections, and the purpose of his present question. It might be said, why should not the Bill be introduced before the Estimate? That course was adopted in 1862, but it was complained of on all sides. It had been found to be inconvenient by all the speak-
 489
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the circumstances under which this payment was made where somewhat peculiar The Bishop of Capo Town presented a memorial to the Lords of the Treasury to the effect that he had been engaged in trying questions which did not concern himself individually, but which related to the rights of the Crown, with reference to his office. That memorial was referred to the Colonial Office, with a request that the Secretary of State would inform the Lords of the Treasury whether, in his opinion, there were circumstances of a peculiar nature in the case which would seem in justice to warrant and require a payment such as the Bishop had asked. The answer of the Colonial Office was, that the question brought under consideration in the case of the Bishop of Cape Town did bear not only upon the position of the Bishop, but likewise upon important questions connected with the prerogative of the Crown, and its titles and rights in the Colonies, and that consequently it would have been the duty, under other circumstances, of the advisers of the Crown to instruct the Law Officers, the Queen's Advocate, and the Attorney General, to attend the Privy Council and watch the case on behalf of the Crown. But it so happened that the Bishop of Cape Town himself had retained the Queen's Advocate and the Solicitor General to act as his counsel, and consequently they discharged the duty on behalf of the Crown, though immediately at the charge of the Bishop of Cape Town. It was therefore thought fit to make some allowance to the Bishop in respect to that portion of his costs which the Crown must have borne but for the circumstance of his having retained its Law Officers. He did not remember precisely what the sum was, but of course the papers could be produced.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General to inform the House by whose authority the written statement was prepared from which, on Monday last, he read his replies to the questions relating to the Bankruptcy Court at Leeds, and whether ho will lay it upon the table of the House; and whether he will lay upon the table the letter of Mr. Welch, the registrar, which he read to the House on Tuesday last to complete his previous statement, as well as the letter of the Hon. Richard Bethell, confirming the same.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he was happy to support the Motion, but in order to facilitate operations under the
 541
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he was exceedingly pleased with the course adopted by the Government upon this occasion, as by contracting for the execution of larger proportions of public works, they would considerably diminish the expenditure of the country, and secure the services of a higher class of contractors than were generally employed. It was only a pity that the Admiralty had not been advised to include within the scope of the Bill other works which were equally necessary. He perceived that though the works at Portsmouth were to cost about a million and a half, only £700,000 were to be spent in the next five and a half years. It therefore appeared that the works would take ten years in completion. A similar delay was also observable in connection with the works at Chatham. He thought, therefore, that it would have been better if it had been proposed to finish the works even more speedily.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to know whether it would not be possible to give further facilities?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of works, Whether it would not be possible to give the public greater facilities for visiting the Chapter House at Westminster than they at present enjoy?
 MR. PEEL  stated, in reply, that in the last Papers respecting Harbours of Refuge, presented the other day, the hon. Gentleman would find an account of the damage upon the occasion of these storms. It appeared that the masonry walls of the Breakwater had breached in two places of considerable length two feet below the level of the sea at low water. No damage had been done to the base upon which the wall was built, the most important part of these breakwaters, and no apprehensions were entertained, as far as he was aware, for the safety and stability of the structure. The cost of the repairs had been estimated at £15,000, but the cost to the public would not be so much, as the contractor was liable for any damage till the breakwater was completed, except in the case of damage arising from great storms, in which case he was liable to pay one-half.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, What steps have been taken to bring into operation at Aldershot the Contagious Diseases Prevention Bill?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that Dr. Leonard, the Inspector under the Act, had been directed to report at the end of last year upon Aldershot and the local hospitals which were likely to be available for the purposes of the Act. He reported that neither the Infirmary nor any other hospital in the neighbourhood was adapted for the purposes of the Act. Under these circumstances arrangements were temporarily made to remove persons subject to the operation of the Act to the Lock Hospital in London. The very limited experience they had had of the working of the Act at Portsmouth, Devon-port, and other places, had shown that, unless the provisions of the measure could be thoroughly and completely carried out, little or no good could result from putting the Act in force. Dr. Leonard had lately made proposals for trying the experiment upon a more complete scale at Aldershot, and the matter was now under consideration.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, in reply, that the Correspondence relating to the Turnpike Trusts in the neighbourhood of Devizes would be laid upon the table that evening. There had been no unnecessary delay, for the Return consisted of fifty-two pages, and included the signatures of 995 persons who had memorialized for or against the Turnpike Trusts. He thought the attention of the Chairman of the Printing Committee might be called to the question whether the petitions did not rather refer to private interests than to public matters.
 MR. PEEL  said, that having already spoken upon this Question he was unable to give the hon. Member the explanation which he desired.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) would be able to give the Committee some information with regard to the damage done to the Works at Alderney.
 MR. PEEL  said, he had already stated that evening that the engineers of the works in question had reported two breeches in the wall during a great storm. They stated, however, that the base of the wall, which was the most important part of the structure, had received no injury, whatever. The expense of repairing the damage would amount to about £15,000, half of which, as it was the result of a storm, would fall upon the contractors under the terms of their contract.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that Holyhead Harbour was completed for the reception of passengers and mail packets.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that the Irish mails were very irregular, and the letters were not delivered until ten or eleven o'clock in the day. He asked when the Returns moved for by the hon. Member for Cork would be laid before the House?
 MR. PEEL  said, the elaborate nature of the Returns had caused a delay in their production.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that he understood it was not intended to complete the whole of these buildings internally at present, but he believed that the cheapest plan would be to complete them at once.
 MR. PEEL  stated that the buildings were completed externally, but it was not thought necessary to go to the expense of fitting up more than four-tenths of the interior until it should be all required for use.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the lighthouses at the Bahamas were entirely supported by Parliamentary Votes. The other side of the Florida channel was extremely well lighted by the American Go-
 596
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he was glad to hear that some tolls were to be levied for these lights, for it was monstrous that the people of this country should be taxed for them. In the Bahamas there were no less than eight lighthouses, and he should like to have some explanation with respect to the new lighthouse which had been erected there at a cost of £7,500.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know whether any portion of the charge for the lighthouse at Ceylon was borne by that Island or by the Indian Government? He was in favour of doing away, as far as was practicable, with passing tolls, but then he did not think it right that the expense of maintaining a lighthouse at Ceylon should be defrayed altogether by this country. It was only fair that the Indian Government should pay half.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the prrticular portion of the Vote to which the hon. Gentleman referred was for the maintenance, not of a lighthouse, but of a lightship at Ceylon, and that it was intended to make her as far as possible self-supporting. Ceylon had no special local interest in the keeping up of the vessel, which was chiefly of service to the shipping passing up the Bay of Bengal. The Indian Government had, he believed, declined to contribute towards the cost of the lightship, and it appeared to him but fair that the power should be exercised of levying dues on all ships which were benefited by her light. It would, he might add, be necessary to incur some further expense in that quarter in providing a spare ship to be made use of in case of accident. In answer to the hon. Member for Truro (Mr. Augustus Smith), he might state that it had been found expedient to have a new lighthouse at the Bahamas owing to the dangerous nature of the channel navigation.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, that being of opinion that some portion of the expense of the lightship at Ceylon should be borne by the Indian Government, he should move that the Vote should be reduced by half its amount.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask how it was that, the Vote having been rejected by the House last year, it was again brought forward by the Government in the present Session?
 MR. PEEL  said, he attributed the rejection of the Vote last year partly to his not having explained the circumstances under which it was introduced with sufficient clearness, and partly to the fact that the correspondence, which would have furnished a full explanation, had not been laid on the table of the House, That correspondence, however, had since been produced, and it would be seen by it that in 1858 the condition of the criminal pauper lunatics in the Isle of Man having been brought under the notice of Mr. Walpole, at the time, Secretary for the Home Department, he bad called the attention of the local authorities to the subject, and that the result was an application to the Treasury, who had undertaken to pay half the expense of erecting a lunatic asylum in the island, provided the authorities there would undertake the payment of the other half. The House of Keys, availing themselves of that offer, had passed a Bill for the purpose of making the necessary valuation of property with the view to raise their share of the money, and the Government, under the circumstances, deemed it to be their duty to carry into effect their part of the arrangement by proposing the present Vote. The Vote, in fact, was only the appropriation of a portion of the surplus revenue of the Isle of Man, which amounted to £10,000 or £12,000 a year, which was paid into the Imperial Exchequer. It was also thought that the island was entitled to this Vote because the Crown had bought the sovereign rights of the island.
 MR. FINLAY  said, he did not see on what ground the Isle of Man should be placed on a footing different from that of Scotland and all other parts of the Kingdom, which were obliged to pay for lunatic asylums out of their own local taxes. If Scotch accounts were balanced in the same way as the Secretary to the Treasury proposed in the case of the Isle of Man, it would be found that Scotland also had a large surplus revenue.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he wished to ask, whether the county Mayo, which was at present spending £30,000 for purposes exactly similar to those covered by this Vote, would receive any assistance out of the public funds, if an application to
 598
 MR. PEEL  said, the Isle of Man had a Legislature of its own. There was a great distinction between the Isle of Man and the county of Mayo. When the sovereign rights of the Duke of Atholl were bought, it was thought equitable that the surplus revenues should be paid into the Exchequer. In his opinion this was a special case for the grant of public money. Before, the revenues of the island belonged to it, and were expended there, and it appeared no more than justice to expend now a portion of those revenues upon the local wants of the place.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, the proceeds of the Customs duties in this country were applied towards sustaining the general burdens, and unless the Isle of Man were prepared to maintain an army, navy, and police of its own, it ought to contribute towards the maintenance of these national forces before it could claim any surplus revenues. The fact of there being a surplus of £12,000 a year showed that the Isle of Man was wealthy, and had I a good trade, and it surely could afford to pay for its own local expenses, as well as any other part of the Kingdom.
 MR. FINLAY  said, the Customs duties in the Isle of Man were not of the same amount as those in the rest of the United Kingdom. £300,000 were spent some years ago as a gross job in acquiring the sovereignty of the island, and now the Committee were asked to perpetuate a system thus inaugurated.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, he must protest against the doctrine that because sovereign rights had been acquired by the State over any portion of its proper dominions it was bound to spend in that portion of its territory whatever surplus revenues might arise therein. Such an agreement had once existed in Hanover, but at that time Hanover contributed largely to our military strength in time of war.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not know whether hon. Members had read the letter from the Governor, in which it was
 599
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, nothing would be easier than to overcome the difficulty last suggested by removing the criminal lunatics from the Isle of Man to Dartmoor, or the nearest establishment of a suitable kind in the United Kingdom.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that some compromise should he adopted in this matter. The House, he thought, would not haggle with so small an island for a few thousand pounds if, as suggested, the national faith was pledged to the expenditure.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, it was important to ascertain how the faith of the country stood pledged, if at all. If an undertaking by a Secretary of State that he would propose a particular Vote to the House amounted to a pledge on the part of the country to grant the money asked for, the Committee of Supply might as well abandon its functions at once. He wished to understand distinctly from the right hon. Gentleman whether the statement that the Isle of Man possessed a revenue and a Legislature of its own, was to be taken as a declaration that the Isle of Man undertook its own defence, and would not make any call on the national forces. The colonies paid towards the Imperial expense incurred in their military defence. The Isle of Man was a part of the Empire, with a local Legislature, hut it did not pay for its own defence. The House could not admit that it was bound by any engagements which might have been made by any Member of the Government as to the payment of this money.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no Member of the present Government would presume that he could bind the House beforehand to any Vote of money. The authorities of the Isle of Man, however, had reason to expect, from the assurances, first of the late Sir George Lewis, and afterwards in still stronger terms of the Government of Lord Derby, that the Vote now before the House would be recommended and supported by the Government. Did the Parliament of this country treat the Isle of Man with greater
 600
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he saw no reason why the lunatic asylums of the Isle of Man should be paid for out of the Imperial Exchequer. The Vote was refused last year, and that, in the absence of any new arguments, was a very good reason for refusing it again.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that if hon. Members would read the note appended to the Estimate they would find that the probable cost of this building was about £20,000, in addition to £2,016 for the purchase of the site. Half the amount was to be provided by Parliament, and the other half by the island. The House was now asked to vote £4,000, which was one-half the cost of the site, and of such portion of the work as would be paid for within the year. The correspondence was laid before Parliament in 1864, and he wished to know why the Government did not take the opinion of the House on this subject at an earlier period.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he agreed that the expenses of lunatic asylums were generally borne by local rates. An objection to this Vote, however, came with an ill grace from Members for Scotland, for the very next Vote was one of £20,000 for Courthouses in Scotland. In Ireland the latter expenses were defrayed out of county rates.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought it quite right to restore to the Isle of Man £13,000 of the money taken from the island in taxes, but the Government forgot I that they drew £4,000,000 out of Ireland.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to ask for some explanation of the large sum of £38,000 for the Sheriff's Court of Edinburgh, which was not larger than other Courts in various parts of Scotland.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it had been very difficult to obtain a site, and though the sum was large, it was not larger than the necessities of the case required.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, there was no ground for assisting local rates in England out of the Consolidated Fund when nothing of the kind was done in Ireland.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, it was only within the last few years this Vote had been proposed. It was an enormous advantage to the people of Greenwich to have Government establishments there. Would the hon. Members for Greenwich and Woolwich be content to-morrow that those establishments should be transferred to the Shannon or the Cove of Cork? If the establishments were removed to Ireland, and grants were asked in aid of local assessments, there would not be the least chance of getting them. Government establishments prevented pauperism. He should oppose the Vote, and if encouraged would go to a division upon it.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, the Committee that sat upstairs had settled the question of Government rating. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. M'Mahon) spoke of the advantage of Government establishments. But in the parish of St. Nicholas, Deptford, where the dockyard was, the rates were 12 s. 602
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought that the Government establishments at Woolwich added more to the value of the property in their neighbourhood than that property was depreciated by the additional poor rate at which it was assessed.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that this £27,000 could surely not be the whole sum to be contributed by the Government in aid of local rating.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask, whether it was intended that any portion of the money should be applied in payment of rates in Ireland or Scotland?
 MR. PEEL  said, that no distinction was made between England and any part of the United Kingdom, There were two heads into which this Vote was divided. The first related to property newly acquired by the Government. With regard to this property, the Government indemnified the parish against any loss sustained by its transfer from private hands to those of the Government, and the same rates were paid as it would have been liable to if it had remained private property. But there was this condition—that the rateable value should continue the same as it was when the property was acquired by the Government. That course, he thought, satisfied every claim which could be preferred by the parishes concerned. It was true that the parishes lost the advantage of any increasing value, but this was a conjectural estimate, and you must take into account the benefit conferred upon the district by the large scale of Government expenditure. In such an arrangement the Government were fortified by the authority of Parliament, this being the rule laid down with regard to purchases made for fortification purposes. The other head referred to property long in the possession of the Government. That property had always been exempted from rating, and the Government thought this exemption ought to continue, and that the present body of ratepayers had no right
 603
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, be thought that the recommendation of the Committee, which was presided over by the late Sir George Cornewall Lewis, should be carried out, and the rating of Government property be regulated by Act of Parliament. At present it was altogether an arbitrary matter.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he must remind the Committee that, with ordinary persons, it was the quarter sessions which decided upon the rating, but the Government claimed to assess themselves. The Committee which had been referred to came to the conclusion that Government property ought to be rated upon the same principles as the property of individuals; but now the Government asked the Committee to vote this sum of £27,000, as representing the total amount it should contribute to the rates for all its property in the United Kingdom. Such a proposition was absurd, and he hoped that next Session the question would be dealt with in a more satisfactory manner.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, his attention had been drawn to the inadequate contributions which the Government made to the rates of those districts in which their great establishments were situate. In the principle of exempting Government establishments from local rates on the ground that they benefited the district in which they were situated were carried out, every large private establishment ought to be exempt also. Whatever advantages resulted to certain districts from the presence of Government establishments, those advantages were counterbalanced by the consequent disadvantages.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, that hardships did arise to individuals from the present system, but it must be recollected that the system was not one of to-day, but
 604
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, he wished to ask for some explanation of the different modes of assessment adopted by the Government.
 MR. PEEL  said, the difference consisted in the fact that the Government did not think they ought to pay upon the same principle in places where the property had been long in the possession of the Government as in places where property had been recently acquired and thus transferred from ratepaying occupiers to them.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought that the same principle of contributing to rates should apply to every part of the United Kingdom.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the hon. Member would not persist in his Motion. It was early, twenty minutes to eleven, and if, as was supposed, Parliament was to rise in the second week of July, some progress must be made with the Estimates with which at present they were very backward.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he saw a charge in the Estimate for the attendant on the ventilation of the House. That individual was paid by the country for pumping cold and unwholesome air into the House to circulate about the feet of hon. Members to such an extent that it was impossible for hon. Members to remain in it in the early part of the Session, and it was the most cruel
 605
 MR. WHALLEY  said, be had made a personal application to the officer in question, and his reply had been very unsatisfactory, he (Mr. Whalley) could not do his duty, although he had tried his best, and the effect of the present arrangements was to drive away all the independent Members. He understood the law of nature to be that the upper stratum of air should be cooler than the lower, in order that the impurities of human breath and other impurities might be carried off. But in that House they had created an artificial beat above. The system of ventilation adopted in that House was the cruellest form of despotism ever invented. Instead of allowing the hot air to escape they sent it down on hon. Members. He had been up above and down below, and really—speaking for himself—he could not stand it. Whether it was by creating an artificial heat above or forcing in artificial east winds from below he could not say, but the system of ventilation was fundamentally wrong; and nothing could be more deliberately ruinous to the health of independent Members.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to call attention to the large expenditure for messengers, not only in this, but in all the public Departments. The sum asked for the expenses of messengers in all the public Departments in London was no less than £34,794. When he had occasion to make any communication to a public Department he usually intrusted it to the post, and he generally found that it arrived
 606
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask why it was necessary to come to that House for Votes on Account if the salaries were due at the end of the quarter?
 MR. PEEL  said, the salaries were paid at the end of the quarter, but by the recent Appropriation Acts it was impossible to use any of the unappropriated balances, and consequently he was obliged to come to that House for a Vote.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to ask how it was that in the Vote for the Treasury the number of messengers employed, and the salaries given, were stated in detail, and a lump sum taken for the Home Office?
 MR. PEEL  said, that the latter sum was limited to the Home Office alone; whereas in the Treasury it included those employed in the Chancellor of the Exchequer's Office also, and they required to be separated.
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not see why the details could not be given in both cases.
 MR. PEEL  said, they should be given next year.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that as we had adopted a policy of non-intervention—of never assisting our friends, and of letting any injustice go on in any part of the world—the time had come when some of our Foreign Office machinery might be dispensed with. In the new path of peace on which we had entered we had neither to defend our territories nor raise a finger when treaties are broken. The only object of our diplomacy had hitherto been to prevent other nations from going to war. Nobody ever proposed seriously to attack us; the only way in which we ever got into wars was by de-
 607
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that in reply to the observations of the hon. Member for Devizes, he would say that the question of the maintenance of our Foreign Office did not depend upon the adoption or not of the principle of non-intervention in the affairs of other nations. The voice of history warned us that so long as this country maintained its Protestant principles and remained the great bulwark of civil and religious liberty, it must always expect to have arrayed against it the animosity of States which had a different policy. This country was an asylum of persons who for their political or their religious principles had to leave the land of their birth, and as long as we desired to have England pre-eminent in upholding the principles of civil and religious liberty we must maintain our Foreign Office.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, that he did not think the country got value for the £1,500 paid to the Medical Officer of the Privy Council. Considerable sums had been spent on experiments connected with vaccination. He thought that the experiments and Reports of the medical branch of the Department were superficial, and the conclusions come to empirical and not satisfactory.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he wished to know was this medical officer the gentleman who had made the very elaborate Report which had been used by the Government in the recent debates on the Poor Laws, and who seemed to have a very slight acquaintance with truth. If so, the salary ought to be stopped. In referring to that Report his observation was
 608
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the document referred to was not penned actually by an officer of the Government, but by a gentleman specially employed for the particular duty. He (Mr. Bruce) was not then prepared to accede to the criticizms passed by certain hon. Members upon it. He should on Monday have an opportunity of conferring with Dr. Hunter, when, he believed, he would be able to show the House that the charges directed against that gentleman were made under a misapprehension. He (Mr. Bruce) referred especially to those of the noble Lord the Member for North Leicestershire. He must say, that he know no more able nor hardworking officer than Dr. Simon, who had already conferred the greatest benefits upon the public by his inquiries, which had been attended with the best results to the public health. He believed that those inquiries ought to be continued by that gentleman.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he concurred in the opinion that the Privy Council should have the means of prosecuting these local medical inquiries. But the question for consideration was whether the expenses were not exorbitant for what they obtained. It was well that the Board of Health was done away with, inasmuch as it had made foolish Reports, which invited the severest criticizms year by year. The present system, which was established in its stead, was a much better one. This Department of the Government should, however, pay more attention to the way in which those Reports were made up if they wished to enlist the respect of the House for them.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he wished to know how the Special Report was to be paid for. How did it appear in the Estimates? He was not prepared to join in the remarks which had been made adverse to it, because the more clear and bold the colouring of pictures relating to the domiciliary arrangements of the poor the better. He felt sure that on a fair and candid report a state of things far blacker and more disgraceful to our civilization would be found in our manufacturing districts than that reported in the agricultural neighbourhoods. As an owner of property in the manufacturing districts he had found himself continually foiled in his efforts to provide for the manufacturing classes dwellings more favourable to decency and comfort by the ignorance of the very peo-
 609
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that the scheme alluded to by his hon. Friend was included in the contingent expenses under the Public Health Act,  21 & 22 Vict. animus
 MR. HUNT  said, be believed that Dr. Hunter's inquiries would lead to more accurate reports if some notification of his intended visit to the part of the country were made by that gentleman, so that persons in the neighbourhood might have an opportunity of furnishing him with correct information and of rebutting charges made by interested parties.
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he was unable to judge himself of the accuracy of Dr. Hunter's report, but a distinguished Member of the House (Mr. Henley) had said that it was incorrect, and that statement was echoed on both sides of the House.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he must complain of the cost incurred through the registration of joint-stock companies, and thought that some fees for registration ought to be charged.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he must call the attention of the hon. Baronet to the fact that fees to the amount of £21,000 were received in the year 1864.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the expenses in connection with this Vote bad increased from £65,000 last year and £62,000 the previous year to £68.000 in the present Estimate. The increase of expenditure on account of superannuation was especially objectionable. Two gentlemen, Lord Hobart, and Mr. Edgar Bowring, had been superannuated, one at the age of thirty-eight and the other at the age of forty. One of these Gentlemen, Mr. Edgar Bowring held two offices, and though only one of those offices had been abolished, his superannuation was calculated on the salaries of both offices. He should like to know from the right hon. Gentleman at the head of this Department, who was not only known as an advanced Reformer, but was an advocate of peace, and above all retrenchment, whether these gentlemen had been employed in any other Department of the public service after the alteration or abolition of the offices they previously held.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought that now the restrictions had been so much removed from trade, one-tenth or even one-half of this Vote might be devoted to the protection and encouragement of agriculture, and that the name of the office itself might be changed to "the Board of Trade and Agriculture."
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to know how much the Vote had been increased by the Railway Bills passed last year. Great hopes had been entertained that the Board of Trade would have been able to relieve hon. Members of a large portion of the duties which devolved upon them with respect to railroads.
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he hoped that in future the Vote for the Designs Office would appear either in the Patent Vote, orin the Vote for Education, Science, and Art.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was an inquiry into the office of the Board of Trade, with a view to its re-organization, and the office of registrar was abolished. The office of registrar had been abolished, and Mr. Edgar Bowring took the superannuation allowance to which he was entitled under the Act for an abolished office. With regard to Lord Hobart, his duties had become very slight, and he retired upon a superannuation allowance on
 611
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask, how it was that the salary of the chief of the Statistical Department had been increased from £800 to £1,000.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the reason was that there had been an addition to his duties by the abolition of other offices.
 MR. PEEL  said, he hoped that the Vote for Exchequer Bonds would first be taken.
 MR. VANCE  said, he must move the adjournment of the debate, on the ground of the lateness of the hour and the absence
 612
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES , in seconding the Motion, said, a great number of Members interested in the question had been induced to leave the House in consequence of seeing so many Orders of the Day on the Votes, and therefore it would not be fair to force the matter on in their absence. He appealed to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick, whether he would not, under the circumstances, postpone the consideration of the question.
 MR. MONSELL  said, that in answer to the appeal of the hon. Baronet, he could only say that the measure had already been twice postponed. There had been a decisive majority in favour of the Bill. He did not wish to take any unfair advantage, but as he was a private Member, and therefore had not the control of the business of the House, he could only put the Bill down as the first business to be gone into by the House, and if the matter was always to be postponed, no private Member would undertake to introduce a Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, this was a question of very serious importance and nicety. On a former occasion a person of great authority had made a suggestion, and he now asked whether the Government was prepared to take charge of this important question. He did not think the proposal of the hon. Member (Mr. Vance) at all unreasonable. By adopting this course the Government would meet the wishes of the House, and, at the same time, preserve the securities for the Protestant Constitution.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Bill proposed an oath to be taken by Roman Catholic Members, which would leave but a slight difference between the Protestant and the Roman Catholic oaths. He thought that one uniform oath would be very desirable. If the singular portion of the former oath, dating from the Emancipation Act, which required Protestants to swear that they did not believe that the Pope had power to exercise any spiritual or ecclesiastical jurisdiction in this country, were expunged, the oaths would be exactly alike.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was not only sorry but surprised that after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Walpole) the right hon. Baronet was not prepared to substitute a uniform oath for that proposed by the Bill, which he believed afforded no possible security to the Protestant Church.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was perfectly aware that it had been suggested that Government should take charge of this Bill, but he was not aware that Government had entered into any arrangement to do so. He agreed with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hunt) that the Government should have undertaken the duty of legislation on this subject if it had appeared to them that by so doing they would have promoted the object better than by leaving the matter in the hands of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Mon-sell). He did not think there was any reason for supposing that such would be the result of the Government undertaking the subject. It was true that his right hon. Friend the Member for Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) had expressed his desire that the Government should take the matter up, but he had not indicated the basis of arrangement or pointed out the way of settlement. No doubt it would be the duty of the Government to bring in a Bill to enact an oath that would be entirely satisfactory to all parties if they could see their way to do so, but as there was no mode by which they could at present unite all parties in assenting to any proposal, it surely was not their duty to do it. It was, doubtless, expedient as a general rule that questions of importance should be handled by the Government, but he greatly doubted whether that was the case in the present instance. They were not altogether without experience in the matter. It had been found on a former occasion that the taking up of the subject by the Government had
 614
 MR. VANSITTART  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Vance) had said that in consequence of the illness of his hon. Friend (Mr. Newdegate), and also as it was past twelve o'clock, he thought that the debate should be adjourned; but he had not said that the Government, or anybody else, should have brought in such a Bill.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, it was obvious that a very great change of opinion had taken place on the subject since the period referred to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He had given a cordial vote in favour of the Bill, believing that the time had passed when the dreadful things once attributed to the Roman Catholics were to be apprehended, and also that no real security was obtained for the Established Church by the oath. But as a Protestant he would be placed in a disadvantageous position, as compared with the Roman Catholics, if he were asked to swear to more than they were required to swear to. All denominations should be placed upon one footing in that matter, and he thought that no more fitting opportunity was likely to occur than the present for the Government bringing forward such a measure.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that if this Bill were passed Protestant Members
 615
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  had thought it remarkable that the Government should have been so ready to report Progress at half past eleven; but the reason was evident now. It was only fair that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), who was prevented by indisposition from being present, should have an opportunity of expressing his opinions on that question.
 MR. COLLINS  said, that the hon. Member for North Warwickshire had ample opportunity for speaking when the Bill was introduced, and he might also have addressed the House on Wednesday before the debate closed, if he had thought proper.
 MR. KENNEDY  said, that any attempt by the Government to bring in a new Bill this Session would only result in the question being postponed perhaps for another six years.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to put it to the House, whether they ought not to show some little consideration for the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Newdegate) who might have retarded the Bill if he had risen to speak upon the second reading, and who really had had no sufficient opportunity of expressing his opinion upon I it. The question was, in what manner the oath was to be altered, leaving out words which to the ordinary understanding were not intelligible. Before the House went into Committee the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell) should inform the House on what authority he was prepared to justify the change he sought to introduce.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, that it was undesirable to pass this measure at the present moment, because its adoption would necessarily be associated by the public with the recent attacks upon the Irish Church and the approaching elections.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he was one who attached very little importance to oaths of this kind. They were too easily taken, and too often forgotten; but, holding these opinions, he must say that it was inexpedient at the present time to propose the change which was sought, and this for two reasons. First, on account of the repeated attacks made in this House upon the Irish Church; secondly, on account of the near approach of the
 616
 MR. DENMAN  said, this was a cowardly and unworthy argument. Because it might be said that they were doing something which they knew to be just under the pressure of the approaching election, therefore they were to perpetuate what they knew to be unjust. If this was a just Bill hon. Members ought to support it, and not care what the people might say out of doors with respect to the motives which actuated its supporters. To use the words of the right hon. the Member for the University of Cambridge, "the oath was offensive, and contained insulting statements." If this was so they ought to get rid of it.
 MR. WALPOLE : As the hon. and learned Member has alluded to me I may say a few words, especially as the argument I used was hardly that which he has attributed to me. The argument I used was this—and the more I have thought upon it the more I am prepared to adhere to it—that when you make a deliberate compact—tacitly it may be, not in words, perhaps—when you come to a deliberate agreement or understanding that upon certain conditions a great change is to be made in your law, you ought not to disturb the conditions unless you see some great practical grievance pressing upon some persons, and the grievance ought to be made out to the satisfaction of the House. I adhere to the view that if it were made out to the satisfaction of the House that there are circumstances which require an alteration in the oath such a change ought only to be made after the gravest consideration, and to be recommended on the responsibility of the Advisers of the Crown. And further, that if we see a change necessary we ought to consider whether we can frame the oath in such a form of words as that all Members of the House may take it. If Her Majesty's Government will take the matter in hand I will do my best to see what form of oath is to he framed, But unless the Government do so, after thirty years during which this oath has been taken, and which was confirmed in 1858, it is hardly fair at this advanced period of the Session to expect Members to assent to change without more discussion, upon the subject,
 617
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, as some hon. Members spoke in favour of a uniform oath they ought to bear in mind that there was a class (the Jews) which had been recently admitted by Resolution to seats in this House, and that the admission was a kind of by-play. It would be fairer to consider how the oath could be framed to meet this class.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that at half past ten o'clock a Motion was made to report Progress, but the Government nevertheless went on with the Estimates until twenty minutes to twelve o'clock. The House had by the division expressed a decided opinion that the Bill ought to be proceeded with; but as at that hour it would be impossible to make much progress with the Bill, he suggested that the Bill should now be allowed to go into Committee, with the understanding that Progress would be immediately afterwards reported.
 MR. VANCE  said, he feared that if that course were pursued it would be afterwards impossible for any one to move an Instruction to the Committee to frame a uniform oath to be taken by all Members.
 MR. COLLINS  said, he thought the conduct of some hon. Members very inconsistent. They complained that the Government did not make the Bill a Government measure, and when the Government did the next best thing, by allowing the Bill to come on for discussion at half-past eleven o'clock, they still objected to that course.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed that the hon. Member for Dublin (Mr. Vance) was under a mistake in supposing that if the Bill went into Committee and Progress were reported, it would not afterwards be competent for an hon. Member to move an Instruction to the Committee.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he thought that if the course suggested by the Secretary for the Home Department was followed there would be every opportunity for the further discussion of the subject.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, that if the Government thought the Bill of such importance as to induce them to give up proceeding with the Estimates at so early an hour as they had done, with a view to its being brought on, they ought to take the subject into their own hands.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that hon. Members were entitled to have a full opportunity of discussing whether the House should or should not go into Committee on the Bill.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that if the Government were in earnest in their support of the Bill, and were desirous that it should not be a shuttlecock between opposing parties, they ought to lend his right hon. Colleague all the facility and assistance in their power in pressing it forward.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the Bill, if it were to pass that House, would have to go before another Assembly, composed of lawyers and statesmen, who would give it a calm and conscientious consideration, and that if it were sent up to that Assembly in a crude shape it might be very summarily rejected. He would, therefore, suggest that the best chance for its success would be to allow it to be discussed fairly, with the view to the introduction into it of such Amendments as were desirable, and as hon. Members on his side of the House were prepared to propose. For his own part, nothing would ever induce him to consent to depart from the vital principle of the constitution as established at the Reformation, and which he conceived to be embodied in the oath as it now stood.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman was determined to adhere to the principle of the constitution as he supposed it to be embodied in the Roman Catholic oath—
 MR. WHITESIDE  explained that he referred to the oath taken by Protestants, in which they denied not only the tern-
 619
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had given good reason why they should only do one thing at a time. He would leave those who did not hold the pernicious doctrine to which he objected to say they did not, and those who did hold it should not be required to renounce it. That being so, what great bulwark of the constitution was to be found in the circumstance that those who did not believe in the spiritual jurisdiction of the Pope expressed their non-belief—however great the satisfaction they derived from it—while they had no fear of the non-renunciation of the contrary belief in the case of Roman Catholics who held those pernicious doctrines.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was answering what the Home Secretary had said with respect to altering the oath by striking out the words which contained the principle which he (Mr. Whiteside) advocated.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) had called a distinction between the Church and its temporalities a flimsy one, but he would remind him that it was a distinction made by that eminent statesman, Edmund Burke. In his speech on Wednesday the right hon. Gentleman went as far, in order to insult the Roman Catholics, as the form of the House allowed him.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he should make another Motion of adjournment, as a matter of form, to enable him to state that the learned Attorney General would never have ventured on the address he had delivered a few minutes previously at an hour when the House was in a frame of mind to understand it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to order. As the right hon. Gentleman having the conduct of the Bill was understood to be willing to accede to the Motion, perhaps the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) would not object to shorten his speech.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that when the Attorney General chose to raise upon a
 620
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the right hon. Gentleman had left out the words which alone raised the matter between them. The denial of the jurisdiction of any foreign power in our law was in the present oath. [Mr. WHITESIDE: Spiritual.] The right hon. Gentleman put in the word "spiritual" now. With regard to that, those who did not believe—and all who were Protestant did not believe—in the spiritual jurisdiction of the Pope professed that in the oath taken in the House. But if the holding a different tenet were dangerous to the constitution it would follow that those who held it would be asked to take the same oath. They were informed that all our Roman Catholic fellow-subjects held that tenet, and it was not considered so dangerous as to induce us to ask them to renounce it.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would agree to the Motion for the adjournment.
 MR. DANBY SEYMOUR  said, he understood that his right hon. Friend intended to disregard the Act of Parliament, which was very distinct in its provisions. He confessed he thought such a Report as his right hon. Friend deprecated would be very useful. It might be drawn without any especial colouring, and might furnish an account of what had been done in each Presidency in the increase of schools and railways, of any important events that might have occurred, or changes in the law, with a few remarks in the way of general information. The great defect of the present Reports was that they were too voluminous and published in a ver inconvenient shape. A Report was prepared some years ago by Mr. Melville of the India Office, which gave a very fair view of the progress of India during the period to which the Report related. He believed that if such a statement was now prepared, it would be read with interest by the Members of the House and by the public, and would tell beneficially on Europe and the rest of the world. He did not think it was right deliberately to disregard the provisions of the Act of Parliament, and he hoped his right hon. Friend would direct his attention to that point.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury a question on the subject of the local taxation of houses occupied by officers of the army in the performance of their official duties. Early last Session he had brought the subject under the notice of his noble Friend the Under Secretary for War, who stated that it would be necessary for the autho-
 588 s. d. 589 s.
 MR. PEEL  said, he could answer the question of his hon. and gallant Friend.
 590 591
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to know whether the houses in Downing Street paid rates. Did the Chancellor of the Exchequer pay rates on his official residence, or, if paid, were they paid out of the Exchequer?
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he thought the answer which had been given to his hon. and gallant Friend was anything but satisfactory. Officers on entering the army were led to believe they would get free quarters; and he thought the practice which his hon. and gallant Friend reprobated was neither more nor less than a breach of good faith, and far from creditable to the War Office. The Admiralty kept faith with their officers—why should not the War Office do the same?
 MR. GRANT DUFF : I had originally intended to put the proposal which I wish to submit to the House in the form either of a Motion or of a question addressed to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India. But on examining the Government of India Act, I found that the India Office is already bound to lay upon our table a document so very similar to that which I meant to ask for, that I cannot imagine that anything further will be required than very briefly to call attention to the fact that neither the letter nor the spirit of the existing law, with regard to the information about India which is laid he-fore us, is, or ever has been, complied with. After enumerating the various accounts which must be laid before us, the 53rd section goes on to say that such accounts—
 "Shall be accompanied by a statement prepared from the detailed Reports from each presidency and district in India, in such form as shall best exhibit the moral and material progress and condition of India in each such presidency." cadit qiwstio, en regle 583 in extenso, 584 "It would seem," said Lord Dalhousie, "that some few hours may he profitably devoted to a short review of eight eventful years, not for the purpose of justifying disputed measures, but for the purpose of recalling the political events that have occurred, the measures that have been taken, and the progress that has been made." 585
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT : Sir, I rise with considerable satisfaction to support the claims to a pension in behalf of these distressed and friendless widows. I may be permitted to observe, in order to press this claim influentially, that the class of officers I advocate—the boatswain, the gunner, and the carpenter—are at all times selected by the captains of their respective ships for promotion not only on account of their good conduct, but also on account of their perfect qualifications and knowledge of the several departments of the service. They are deserving of every encouragement, and I express my earnest hope the Admiralty will not hesitate to do this act of justice to the widows of this deserving class of officers. Their widows are not many in number, the sum required is small, and year by year will become rapidly lessened by death.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he concurred generally in the views of the last speaker, and he thought, that neither in letter nor in spirit had the right hon. Baronet conformed to the Act of Parliament. The documents presented to Parliament were so bulky that they could not properly be called a statement. They were rather the documents from which the statutable statement ought to be compiled. The right hon. Baronet might demur to preparing such a digest himself; and even if he did not, his version might be supposed to be coloured. But would there be any difficulty in getting the Governor General to have a digest of the Report made under his own eye, in accordance with the spirit of the Act? He did not complain of the economy which had led to discontinuing the printing of bulky volumes which no one read; but the fact remained that there existed only one copy of the Indian Reports for the use of the House. If the right hon. Baronet would not agree to the suggestion to get an epitome made in India of the statistical details of the Reports now sent home, perhaps he would, at all events, get a larger number of copies, say fifty, sent instead of one, for the use of hon. Members who took a special interest in Indian matters.
 MR. DENMAN  rose amid cries of "Order" to offer some explanatory remarks.
 MR. DENMAN  said, he rose to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is just and expedient that the annual Duty payable upon Certificates taken out by Attorneys, Solicitors, and Proctors in England and Ireland, and by Writers to the Signet, Solicitors, Agents, Attorneys, and Procurators in Scotland, should be abolished." 565 566 s. d. 567 568 ad valorem 569 d. 4d. 570 odisse quem lœseris.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that he had a most painful duty to perform every year in resisting these demands upon the Exchequer, and in refusing to allow the retrospective operation of Orders in Council framed for the benefit of officers of the navy. If these claims were
 581
 MR. BLACK  said, that he could see no good reason why writers to the signet and solicitors should be subjected to the tax, while advocates and barristers were exempted from it. There were about 1,600 solicitors and attorneys in Scotland; and many of them had strongly represented to him the grievance to which they were subjected. They complained less of the tax than of the degradation to which they
 572
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he desired to have some explanation from the Chancellor of the Exchequer or the First Commissioner of Works upon a matter connected with the Estimates which they were about to consider. They were told that an extra Estimate would shortly be introduced relative to the new Gallery to
 594
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he did not think the terms of the question conveyed an accurate notion of the facts of the case. Mr. Buckle, who had been employed in the Opium Department, had been appointed a Judge according to the old practice of providing in some way or another for members of the Civil Service, and in dealing with causes without a jury he gave satisfaction. He was subsequently removed to a Court where he sat with a jury, and the High Court at Calcutta made representations to the effect that he did not satisfactorily conduct trials with juries; in fact, that he was not competent to sum up evidence. Upon that representation Mr. Buckle had been removed from his post and from all judicial employment, but he (Sir Charles Wood), believing that the reasons for removing that gentleman from all public employment were insufficient, had
 562
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that the
 586 précis précis, 587
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, he was under the impression, without having the papers before him, that there were present officers employed in putting down the bands of robbers, the Bheels, and the Government of India did not consider that the ruffianism of robbers was to be treated in the same way as the putting down of a mutiny.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he did not admit that any officers or men who were entitled to medals had not received them. As far as he knew, all those who wore entitled under the general orders of the Government of India and the recommendations of Lord Clyde had received the medals, and therefore he was not prepared to issue any fresh order upon the subject. If any particular cases were brought under his notice they should receive his careful attention.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Returns of Correspondence relating to the Turnpike Trusts of the neighbourhood of Devizes, for which an Address was moved on Thursday, the 11th instant, will be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether his attention has been drawn to the Proclamation of the President of the United States, offering 100,000 dollars for the arrest of Mr. Jefferson Davis; and whether Her Majesty's Ministers are prepared to make any representations to the Government of the United States in
 564
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that the House ought to know the circumstances under which the majority on the last division was obtained. There were two proposals for reduction of taxes before the House—the abolition of advertisement duty and of the duties now under discussion. The Chancellor of the Exchequer told the House that the Government could not afford to part with the money from both. The
 577
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is intended to provide asylums for dangerous lunatics and insane persons now confined in Gaols and Workhouses in lie-land and also whether it would not be advisable to give magistrates in Ireland the same power possessed by magistrates in England of committing dangerous lunatics to the County Asylum, instead of compelling them by law to commit them to gaol as at present? The hon. Member added that there were 16,000 lunatics in Ireland, 8,000 of whom were at large and 8,000 confined in gaols, workhouses, and asylums There were at present in the gaols 669 who had been committed a3 dangerous lunatics; and a very large proportion of these had remained in prison for a considerable period. The confinement of lunatics in gaols had been condemned by the Inspectors of Asylums and of Prisons; and the fact was that lunatics were not efficiently looked after in gaols, and the discipline of the gaols was much interfered with by having lunatics there, and the difficulty of management was increased. The
 592
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not wish to enter into the merits of the question, hut protested against the time when the Motion was brought forward. He asked whether they could fairly decide upon the merits under existing circumstances. The Motion affected the interests of all those persons who were employed in electioneering throughout the length and breadth of the land. An hon. Member below the gangway had said that all the boroughs were in the hands of attorneys. He (Mr. Hunt) did not go as far as that, but he dared say that a great many in that House were indebted for their seats to the exertions of that meritorious body of men. Would they vote that night as free and independent Members of Parliament, or under the influence of an undue pressure brought to bear upon hon. Members before the general election? He should certainly vote for going into Supply as a means of defeating the Motion.
 MR. CLAY  said, that he was not open to the suspicion of making a bid for the favour of solicitors, seeing that he would equally be in favour of removing the annual licence duty charged to horsedealers, auctioneers, and others. He objected to all licences whatever for carrying on trades. He saw no reason why a solicitor or an auctioneer should pay a tax more than a butcher or a baker.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to point out the dangerous consequences which ensued from the committal of lunatics to prisons constructed for the separate system without a large common room in which different prisoners could meet together. He thought that, considering the importance of placing dangerous lunatics under proper treatment in the earliest stages of their malady, the magistrates in Ireland should have the power of sending them in the first instance to the asylum instead of the gaol. In some cases where there was plenty of room in the asylum these men were kept in gaol for a fortnight. He hoped the right hon. Baronet would have no objection to insert in the Bill which was to be read a second time for the regulation of such asylums a clause to carry out the views of the hon. Member for Meath.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member has a perfect right to explain hereafter what his meaning was, but he has no right to interrupt any speaker for that purpose.
 MR. VANCE , in seconding the Motion, said, this duty pressed with peculiar hardship upon solicitors in Ireland. The tax was not extended to Ireland until 1806, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer had great difficulty in raising money, was obliged to borrow it at ruinous rates of interest, and levied taxes on silk stockings and persons wearing watches. The tax operated unfairly, as it had to be paid alike by the young solicitor whose income was extremely small, and by the old practitioner whose gains might be enormous. In 1850 the Bill for its abolition was carried by a majority of 19 in 1851, by a majority of 30; and in 1853, by a majority of 42. It might be said that the profits of the profession were very large, and ought to be taxed; but in Ireland those profits of late years had been greatly diminished, and especially by the establishment of the Landed Estates Court in that country. The surplus of £280,000 which existed was amply sufficient to allow of this tax being repealed, more especially as the delay in repealing the tea tax would increase the Chancellor of the Exchequer's profits.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, that the principle of the Bill of 1850 was distinctly affirmed by the House on two or three occasions, and that the measure was only lost on the third reading at three o'clock in the morning. On other occasions the Bill had been lost by what he might term misadventure. He hoped the House would relieve attorneys from the injustice to which they had been so long subjected by this duty. They were by it more heavily taxed than any other class who required licences to carry on their trade or profession. Having been a member of the profession himself, he would add that he believed they were quite incapable of being improperly influenced by any decision at which the House might arrive on the question, and that if hon. Members owed their seats to the exertions of solicitors, it was because the latter had zealously taken up their cause, and not because they were actuated by any unworthy motives. He hoped that if the Resolution passed, and it was too late this year to act upon it, it would be understood that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should next year deal with this duty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in rising to state the reasons which induced the Government to offer a stout resistance to the proposal of my hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Denman), I shall not say one single word that can be construed into disrespect towards my hon. Friend, or towards that most valuable and useful profession whose interests are in some degree involved in this debate. We know that vulgar insinuations are sometimes heard with regard to that profession, which, while it affords the noblest scope for the highest qualities, affords scope also for those that are lower. But for myself I have always held the opinion that a worthy and honourable solicitor is himself one of the most valuable members of society; nowhere is the principle of honour to be found in a purer state, and it is no less pure because it is combined with the most enlightened and disinterested prudence. I am sorry that the researches of my hon. Friend into the Parliamentary history of this question have stopped short of the point of greatest interest. I am not going to allege that there has been any compact; the solicitors are free to raise this question at any time, and in any manner, they think fit. But I so far agree with what has fallen from the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), that I do think the external proprieties would have been more consulted if the application for the removal of this tax had been made at a period somewhat more remote from the great event likely to happen in a few months.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  proceeded: After a long Parlia-
 573 574 575 576
 MR. BAXTER  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, If it is true that damage has been done to the Breakwater at Alderney, which it will take at least £50,000 to repair, and if
 561
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to call the noble Lord's attention to the Report of the Commission, and especially to the words "and we think that in fairness the payments should be retrospective." As the whole amount involved would not exceed £2,500 a year, he thought the noble Lord might undertake the agreeable task of applying again to the Admiralty on behalf of these unfortunate widows.
 MR. W. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, with reference to his reply to a question addressed to him on the 15th instant, Whether he is prepared to order that the Medal be now distributed to all the Troops, regular and irregular, who were actually engaged (that being the admitted principle and limitation) in the field against Rebels and Mutineers in the Bombay Presidency during 1857, 1858, and 1859, as it was a matter of absolute certainty that Officers and Men of several Corps, regular and irregular, employed in the Deccan and elsewhere, and who were actually engaged against Rebels and Mutineers, have not received the medal?
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether his attention has been drawn to the Memorial of Mr. Buckle, relating to his arbitrary dismissal from the office of Civil and Sessions Judge of Moorshedabad by Mr. Beadon, the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal, contrary to the protests of the Judges of the High Court of Judicature, Calcutta; if so, what steps he has taken on the subject?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he admitted that it would be desirable to give the magistrates in Ireland the same power as they had in England; but up to the present time this was impossible. When the new asylums were constructed the Government could bring in a Bill to assimilate the law of the two countries.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said,  Sir John Hay 580
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wished to know whether there were not certain officers employed against the Bheels, and as in the case of the Tantia Topee raid they were practically rebels, and whether those officers were not entitled to medals?
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to call attention to the petition of Widows of Warrant Officers of the Navy, and to move that the cruel exception which deprived those who became widows prior to 1860 of any Pension is not approved by that House. The subject was not one of great importance, either as to the amount of money involved or as to the influence which the class of persons interested in it could command. But though they might have no influence on a general election, and their case had not created much interest in the community at large, yet he believed the justice and generosity of the House would be disposed to comply with their prayer. The Warrant Officers of the navy were a class whom that House was desirous to encourage. Persons who rose from before the mast to the rank of Warrant Officers formed the  elite 578 579 "That in the generality of cases their husbands joined the Royal Navy at a very early age (in some cases below fourteen years of age), and by good conduct, bravery, and general ability, obtained promotion to the rank of Warrant Officers, which they held to the date of their decease, giving the utmost satisfaction to their officers, and assisting, as they believe, to uphold the dignity of their profession and the honour of the British flag. "Your memorialists would respectfully mention that keeping in view the anxious wish of the Admiralty and your honourable House to elevate the social standing of the British Navy, their husbands expended all their earnings in maintaining a respectably-elevated position, their salaries being far below that at present allowed; but the consequence to their widows has been poverty, degradation, and wretchedness, consequent on the want of any provision being made for them at the death of their husbands, which has been accelerated by exposure in different climates and the various other contingencies belonging to their exposed position. "Your memorialists respectfully pray your honourable House to examine the evidence taken before the Royal Commission for Manning the Navy and the recommendations of the Commissioners founded on that evidence, where they unanimously agree that the pensions granted to the widows of deceased Warrant Officers should be retrospective, and they venture on humbly appealing to you, as the representatives of the national honour as well as the guardians of its resources, that, as in justice they are proved to be deserving this consideration, so in mercy they require it to save them in their old age from perishing from want, or, what is nearly equal to a respectable person, to be forced to end their days in the pauper's home, the mark of derision to the scoffer, who points to their degradation as the reward obtained for the honest and manly defence by their husbands of their country's rights and liberties. "And your memorialists, on behalf of about 100 widows similarly circumstanced, will ever pray."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Government was supplying, as fast as possible, the want of accommodation for lunatics in Ireland by building new asylums. They were building six in addition to sixteen already existing. It was very wrong to commit lunatics to gaols, but it arose from want of accommodation. Even under the present arrangement, whenever a lunatic was certified by the proper medical officers of the gaols to be dangerous, he was, if possible, at once removed to a lunatic asylum. The Mullingar case, to which the hon. Member had referred, where ten dangerous lunatics had been committed to the gaol, when there was accommodation in the asylum, could only have arisen in the ordinary course adopted in Ireland, which was to commit lunatics to gaol on the advice of a medical officer till the Government was communicated with, when the lunatic, with the least possible delay, was transferred by the Lunatic Inspector to an asylum. When the six new asylums were built the accommodation would be sufficient, except as regarded the Richmond district, in Dublin. Returns of the Ballinasloe district, which comprised the counties of Roscommon, Galway, and Mayo, showed that eighty-three lunatics were confined in the gaols at Galway, Roscommon, and Castlebar. In a short time the asylum at Castlebar would be open, and that would accommodate the counties of Roscommon, Galway, and Mayo. It was true that the magistrates committed lunatics to the gaol in the first instance, but on the Report being made to the Government the lunatics were transferred as soon as possible to the asylum in the district. The hon. Gentleman wanted magistrates in Ireland to have the same power as in England of committing dangerous lunatics to the asylum of the county to which they belonged;
 593 committing a dangerous
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the only answer I can give to the question of the hon. Gentleman is that Her Majesty's Government have no intention of attempting any interference in the internal affairs of the United States.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the authorities at the War Office had no objection to undertake that the Account in that case should for the future be made up to the 31st of December in each year instead of the 31st of March, which was the period hitherto selected. In reply to the second part of the question, he had to state that the auditing of that account would henceforth be placed under the direction of the Auditor recently appointed at the War Office.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that some alterations had just been made in the organization of the Military Train, the principal of which was that the force would no more be divided into battalions, but would be formed into one regiment. The subject of making the regiment a purchase corps had also been under consideration. No final decision, however, had been come to upon that point, and if such a change were adopted, it would be gradually carried into effect, so as not to interfere with existing rights.
 MR. CORRY  sad, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, What measures have been adopted with the view of meeting the difficulty which he has stated to exist of obtaining efficient recruits for the Royal Marines, in consequence of which the numbers borne were reduced to about 1,000 men below the number voted for the service of the financial years 1863–4 and 1864–5?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, he was glad that the hon. Gentleman had asked him this question,
 640
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary to the Treasury, If the Local Rates of the Houses occupied by the Ministry in Downing Street are paid by the Ministers or the Country?
 MR. PEEL  replied, that no houses in Downing Street were occupied as residences but only as Government offices, consequently they were not rateable, and no rates were paid in respect to them. A payment, however, was made to the parish in consideration of their not being rateable.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he thought that they had all heard of large parties being given there. He hoped his right hon. Friend would give him a distinct answer as to whether the houses in Downing Street, of which there was a beneficial occupation, paid local rates.
 MR. PEEL  said, he did not think there was a beneficial occupation of any of the houses in Downing Street.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that a great many hon. Members must recollect having been at a party given in one of those houses when the late Sir George Cornewall Lewis was Secretary of State. He therefore asked whether that House paid local rates?
 MR. PEEL  said, he did not think that an official party given in a house could make the occupation of that house a beneficial occupation.
 MR. KNIGHT  rose to move that certain expenses now charged upon the Union and parochial poor rates should be repaid out of moneys provided by Parliament for that purpose. They were entering on a new phase of poor law legislation. It was well known that all property in England was liable to be rated to the poor, but up to that time a small portion only of that property was in fact rated to the poor. So long as the old parochial management lasted it did not appear desirable to take any further steps with regard to the rating of other property, and the holders of real property were perfectly willing to accept the whole of the burden. Some years ago attempts were made to rate stock in trade as something tangible within a parish, but they signally failed from legal difficulties. Portions of the county rate, the police rate, the salaries of masters and mistresses in union workhouses, the stipends of pupil teachers, and one quarter of the expenses of the medical officers were, however, now paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and it appeared to him that this was a proper time for mooting the question, and seeing whether that principle should not be extended to all those items of poor rate expenditure to which his Motion referred. The purport of his Resolution was, that in the opinion of the House all the items paid out of the poor rates over which the guardians had no control should be paid out of the general taxation of the country. It was true that property in the kingdom was vastly increasing in value, but personal property had increased a great deal more in proportion than real property. They were now discussing a proposition for a re-distribution of the charge for the poor rate; but, by the system proposed by the Bill, one-eighth or one-tenth of the property in many parishes would be confiscated. The measure he laid before the House must not be regarded as being in
 664
 MR. PACKE , in seconding the Amendment, said, lie never knew anything more irregular than the way in which the Bill had been brought before the House. It was brought in and read a first time on the 20th of February, it was read a second time on the 27th of March, and it was not until the 28th of April that the Report upon which it was founded was in the possession of hon. Members. It was not laid upon the table in the usual manner, but was sent to the Paper Office, and hon. Members were told they might there obtain a copy if they thought fit. The Report, the title of which effectually concealed its real character, contained most unfounded charges against the landowners of almost every county in England. Mr. Henley had confuted the charges brought
 665 s. s., s. s.
 MR. ALDERMAN SIDNEY  said, he did not think that a very strong case had been made out by the arguments of either the Mover or Seconder of the Amendment. When the hon. Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Packe) talked of confiscation, and of some parishes paying a rate of 4 s. s. d. 667
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he was sorry to have again to trespass upon the attention of the House in defence of the report of Dr. Hunter; but as statements had been made with respect to it by the hon. Member for South Leicestershire (Mr. Packe) and others, to the justice of which he could not assent, he deemed it to be his duty to point out why it was that he believed the report to be trustworthy, and not fairly open to charges which had been brought against it. He had a few evenings ago, when it was alleged that the report had been made to order, given his positive assurance that it was only a sequel to others, and that it had been made without any reference whatever to the measure under discussion, or to any legislation contemplated by Government. His right hon. Friend the President of the Poor Law Board, upon the same evening, stated that he had never heard of the report until after notice of the proposed introduction of the Bill had been given. Upon that point, then, he felt satisfied that it was quite unnecessary to add a single word. But, then, it was contended by several hon. Members that there was an evident animus in the report hostile to the owners of landed property, and that the inquiries of those who framed it had been specially directed to the evils in connection
 668 669 670 671 "This gentleman tells us that he heard that there had been many houses pulled down there. If he had taken the trouble to refer to the Census he would have found that since 1831 there had been a large increase in the number of houses in the place."
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman entirely mistook his argument. He had endeavoured to show that the period of thirty years should be made the basis for calculation instead of the shorter time.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  would, of course, accept the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman. The right hon. Gentleman alluded to several statements of Dr. Hunter for the purpose of showing that that gentleman had indulged in improper innuendoes against the course adopted by some great landlords, among whom were the right hon. Gentleman in the chair the Duke of Bedford, and the Marquess of Exeter, and insisted that Dr. Hunter had unfairly criticised their proceedings. But the fact was that Dr. Hunter gave these landowners credit for their benevolent intentions, and said they had built excellent houses; but in a spirit of fair and honest criticism he pointed out that in his opinion their benevolent efforts had to a certain extent been misdirected—that the class of dwellings built by them was so costly as to be beyond the reach of those for whom they were intended. Again, the right hon. Gentleman tried to raise a
 672 "Of the twenty-eight parishes of Hitchin Union, destruction of cots has exceeded the re-construction in nine, nor are the evictions confined to these cases, for the Census tells us of houses which have driven away the people by sheer dilapidation, where only one room remains habitable, but which are still returned as 'houses,' though only able to shelter half they were used to. In nine cases out often where the Census reports a decrease of population, and adds a note that it is due to emigration, that word may be safely expunged, and eviction substituted as being the first cause of the decrease."—p. 207. 673 Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society, Doctor
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was very glad he happened to be in the House during the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, and he hoped the House would allow him to offer a few words of explanation on this subject. He was bound to accept, and he did accept at the time, what had been stated by both right hon. Gentlemen—that these reports had not been, as he said, using perhaps not a very good phrase, "done to order" But, as so much had been made of the expression, he might be allowed to state what led him, erroneously perhaps, to that conclusion. He found the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers), in introducing his Bill, mentioned Dr. Simon's report in the month of February, and he found in Dr Simon's report the Bill of the Right hon. Gentleman named. It was quite
 674 675 676 677 Doctor. pro con. Doctor Doctor 678 679
 MR. PORTMAN , as one of the representatives of Dorsetshire, said, he had every reason to be satisfied with the terms in which Dr. Hunter had alluded to that county, and gave him credit for the ability distinguishing his reports. But, at the same time, he had fallen into inaccuracies which ought to be corrected. In the parish of Charlton Marshall, he stated, that "167 houses were standing in 1851, while only 124 remained in 1861." (p. 179). The facts, as he had obtained them from one of the principal proprietors of the village—a gentleman who had devoted a great deal of time and money to its improvement, and whose information was in every way to be depended upon—were that between the years 1851 and 1861 fourteen houses were pulled down in the parish and forty-five rebuilt, showing an increase of thirty-one houses instead of a diminution of forty-three. In Tarrant Hinton Dr. Hunter's report conveyed the impression that there had been a decrease, attributed to houses having been destroyed by fire and not rebuilt. The facts were that a farmhouse was burnt down, but that in its place five or six cottages had been built. Persons who only studied the question in their own rooms in large cities were quite unaware of the difficulties with which landowners had to contend; they were ignorant of the fact that cottages were often let with
 680
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  agreed with his right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire that there were many observations in Dr. Hunter's report which were unnecessary, and that that gentleman ought to have been contented with stating facts, and been less ready to draw inferences. Dr. Hunter found fault with the Duke of Rutland, and said that although his Grace's cottages were very good, yet they produced great poverty, because the rents were too low. He (Sir Baldwin Leighton) could not draw that conclusion from such a fact, as the rents were not nominal in amount; and, at any rate, it could not be said that was a fair observation to make in respect to it. He must be permitted to deny the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bruce) that cottages seldom fell down from natural decay. Great numbers of his cottages had fallen from natural decay, or would have done so, but for having been taken down. Much had been said as to the necessity of a labourer being near his work. He believed it was more conducive to his welfare that he should live under the head landlord himself than under the farmer. But there was a case upon his own property where a waggoner had to walk eight miles a day to work, and, though a cottage fell vacant, he would not give it to the man, because he declined to have about his house one of whose character he did not approve. No facts had been brought forward to show that, although there was occasional crowding in the country districts, it was anything at all like that in large or even in small towns. All this sort of thing must be remembered, and people who lived in towns, and who, looking over this Return, found fault with the landlords, had no practical knowledge of the matter. No doubt there were instances of overcrowding, but they very frequently arose from special circumstances. When a man
 681
 MR. FLOYER  said, he would trespass on the attention of the House for a few minutes, because he could not agree in the concluding observation of the Vice-President of the Education Board, that the more the Medical report was looked into the more accurate it would be found. He would advert to that part of the Return which referred to the county he represented (Dorsetshire); and he thought that the matter was not unim-
 682 683
 MR. BRUCE  said, the Return was not the Government's; it had been moved for by an hon. Gentleman opposite.
 MR. FLOYER  said, he had heard the right hon. Gentleman distinctly say that in that report was to be found the proof that the demolition of cottages which had been so long in operation in England was still going on. The whole question turned upon this point, whether that was the case. He admitted quite as fully as the right hon. Gentleman that there had been times when cottages were pulled down, and in some instances for the sake of getting rid of the poor; but the facts had been grossly exaggerated, and the point upon Which he wished to join issue with the right hon. Gentleman was this—that it was since the Poor Law had been altered that the evils had been renewed. There was no inducement now to pull down cottages or to refuse to admit labourers from another parish into one's own. If it could not be shown that those evils were in operation at present—for that was the question, and they were not to legislate for years gone by—then the foundation upon which the legislation of the right hon. Gentleman was built fell away. He had shown with reference to his own county, that for the first five decades the increase of cottage accommodation had been greater than the increase of population. As long as there was no interference with the law of settlement, so long did the cottage accommodation increase in the ratio which he had described, and that the Return proved. It was only within the last ten years, since they had interfered with the law of settlement and removal, that the cottages had decreased. The Return was a fair sample of the general character of the reports of the Medical Officers of the Privy Council, and it would be well to hesitate before entertaining such statements, as any ground for legis-
 684 685
 LORD HENNIKER  said, that the President of the Poor Law Board, a few nights since, had referred to certain evidence given by a relative of his, formerly chairman of the Hartismere Union, and who was one of the chairmen of Quarter Sessions for the county of Suffolk. The evidence quoted by the right hon. Gentleman was to the effect that the cottages in the neighbourhood were very fast diminishing, and that he was informed the villages were supposed to look prettier with fewer cottages. Now, his relative had been dead sixteen years, and the evidence to which the right hon. Gentleman referred he thought was given before a Committee of the House of Lords nineteen years ago. If, however, the right hon. Gentleman wished the House to believe that this was an accurate description of the present state of things in that county, he could assure him that such is not the case, and that the amount of cottage accommodation is very different from what had been intimated by him. Dr. Hunter, in his Report, stated—
 "In the south street of Needham Market are houses as bad as any that can be found grouped in such numbers in the county, but many Midland villages are much worse. Needham Market is one of the places where houses have been destroyed and population has advanced in the same decennium." "I do not think there have been more cottages destroyed in Needham Market during the last twenty or thirty years than have been replaced by new and more commodious ones. Nor do I believe throughout the whole hundred, of some
 686 "The number of cottages in various parishes has increased, and the population decreased. I think there are a few overcrowded, but it is where grown-up sons and daughters are at home. The average rents are between £3 and £4; the rates paid by the landlords, except in some parishes where the rents are very low. There are some cottages in Yaxley and Mellis in a dilapidated state unoccupied."
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that those who were acquainted with the rural districts could not disguise from themselves the fact that there were many parishes in which there was a great want of cottages. He knew some in which there were only two, and one in which there was but a single labourer's cottage. It was a great mistake to say that cottage-building was not remunerative. Even in those parishes in which the greatest improvements had been made—such as the Duke of Bedford's or the Duke of Northumberland's—the property would fetch a much higher price, if it came to be sold, by reason of the improvement, than the cottages had cost. There were many points in regard to the Poor Law which had not been sufficiently considered, and nothing had given him greater pleasure than to hear that next Session a Committee was to be appointed to inquire into the subject. He should be glad to see some effort made to call out voluntary charity for the relief of the poor, for while compulsory charity was of no good except for the preservation of life voluntary charity did much moral good. He knew a district in which £800 spent out of the rates for the relief of the poor had not produced at the of the good feeling and gratitude which £80 or £90 spent out of voluntary contributions had produced. The system of voluntary charity was developed
 687 arrondissements chef
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, though he believed there were many cases in which relief should be afforded he was not prepared to go the whole length of these Resolutions, in the case of lunatic asylums, for instance, he believed that at the time of the repeal of the corn laws it was proposed that some assistance should be given to the counties; and it was undeniable that the present constitution of the boards which regulated this expenditure was not satisfactory. He hoped these Resolutions would not be pressed, though in their discussion attention had been usefully directed to many specific grievances which called for alteration.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, I hope the House will take notice of the extraordinary way in which hon. Members, who have spoken on this Resolution, have wandered from the subject to which it refers; for certainly everybody must feel that great inconvenience has been caused by the way in which the discussion has been conducted for the last two hours. This is an attempt, by moving an abstract Resolution, to arrest the progress of a Bill which there is no hope of finally defeating. We are about to consider the Bill as amended, when the hon. Member moves a Resolution having
 688 689 690 691 692
 SIR. BALDWIN LEIGHTON  instanced the case of the Poor Law Inspectors.
 Mr. C. P. VILLIERS : I do not see the application of that case. I believe there is no instance in which the Government give away money without interfering in its expenditure. The hon. Gentleman referred to the case of the schoolmasters. But though the State pays the salaries of the schoolmasters they are appointed by the Boards of Guardians, and after a contract has been entered into with the persons so appointed they are at liberty to earn a certificate by passing through an examination, and, in the case of their obtaining the certificate, they come within the general rules of the Privy Council and receive a salary. The payment of the salaries of Poor Law medical officers is another instance to which the hon. Gentleman referred. There Government only gives a portion of the salary, so that those who appoint the officers may be identified with the application of the money. Half the salary is paid by Government, and the other half is paid out of the rates. The consequence is that the salaries are, perhaps, too small, but the officers themselves are looked after closely by the guardians. Then there is the case of the auditors, to which the hon. Gentleman did not refer. Now, these officers are chosen by the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the various Boards of Guardians of the district, and after they have been appointed the Poor Law Board pays their salaries. There is no instance, however, where the State provides funds for purposes of this kind without, at the same time, providing for the control by Government of the application of the money. Now, the hon. Gentleman proposes to-night to bind Parliament to provide funds to be administered by the local authorities, but I warn him that if he gets the money he must expect that the State will exercise control over its application. By pressing this Resolution the hon. Gentleman is laying the foundation for Government interference in all local affairs. Looking at the present flourishing condition of the country, and
 693
 MR. BROMLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just down (Mr. C. P. Villiers) complained that extraneous matter had been introduced into the debate by Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House; but he begged leave to point out that the extraneous matter had been, in a great measure, introduced by the Vice President of the Educational Department referring to the report which had been so often quoted. As a Member representing one of the midland counties, as well as a landed proprietor in two of those counties, he felt it to be his duty to protest against the whole tone and  animus 694 "But by instances like those, judgment must not be blinded to the fact that they, in proportion to the mass of observed cases, are altogether exceptional and rare." 695
 MR. HUBBARD  said, no one could dispute the importance of the question that had been raised—the liability of other than real property to contribute to the support of the poor. It was a subject which must sooner or later come under the consideration of the Legislature. There was not a single item in the Amendment which one or other of the objectors had not admitted to be a proper subject for consideration. If they would refer back to the Act of Elizabeth they would find that it included every description of property then known. Now, consider the change that had taken place since that time in the nature of property. In the time of Elizabeth there existed nothing but land and houses that could come under the description of real property. But what was the property now existing which came properly under the incidence of taxation? Taking the Return for 1861–2, he found that income tax was levied upon the following values:—Lands, £55,000,000; houses, £57,000,000; mines and quarries; £6,000,000; gas, railways, and other works, £20,000,000; public dividends and others, £30,000,000; trades and professions, £93,000,000; offices, £20,000,000. In this list lands and houses represented only £112,000,000; and whether other property should be continuously exempt was a question that must come under the notice of the House at no
 696
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am anxious to say a few words upon the subject of a Motion of this importance, which I do not think has been considered from the point of view in which I purpose to regard it. It is quite true—without blaming any one—that in consequence of the hon. Member for Leicestershire (Mr. Packe), a large portion of the debate has run completely out of the topics to which it at first related, and has turned on the merits of certain reports which have nothing to do with the merits of the Motion. What are the propositions involved in the Motion? In the first place, there is a declaration in the Motion of a private Member applying in the first instance for £1,850,000 of annual charge, and that applying to England only; but the hon. Member, with great ingenuousness and. obvious equity, admitted that if the principle applied to England it applied also to Ireland and Scotland, and that those countries also must have a similar benefit. That would raise the charge to something like two-and-a-half millions a year. It is a Rule of the House that no private Member can move to fix a charge upon the Consolidated Fund. But the hon. Gentleman circumvents this Rule by saying that this should be done by repayments out of moneys provided by Parliament.
 MR. KNIGHT : Those are the words which provide for the contingent to the Metropolitan Police Rate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That was proposed by the Gentleman to whom the House commits the discretion and responsibility of proposing a charge upon the Consolidated Fund, and on the responsibility of Government. But if there be any method by which a private Member can escape the operation of the rule of restraint which the House has wisely imposed upon itself, all I ask in the name of justice and public policy is that some corresponding method should be devised to evade the Rule that a private Member may not propose taxation to be levied upon the people, and that the hon. Member himself, who proposes to add £2,500,000 to the public expenditure shall
 697 2d. 698 699 700
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  opposed the Motion on different grounds. The question of dealing with the Poor Laws, as opened up by the President of the Poor Law Board, was sufficiently difficult in itself without adding difficulties which the Motion of his hon. Friend would involve. He had opposed the Bill on the ground of its centralizing tendency. He agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer that municipal and local self-government was one of the most valuable and cherished institutions of the country; and he deprecated the Motion of his hon. Friend, because that Motion would diminish the effect of those institutions and would throw the administration of the poor rates on aggregate masses, at the same time that it destroyed or diminished local responsibility. He trusted that his hon. Friend would not press his Motion to a division.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the clause was rendered unnecessary by a decision which had been arrived at by the Court of Common Pleas on the point to which it related. What was proposed to be enacted by the clause had been thereby decided to be now the law.
 MR. HENLEY  asked whether the decision in the Common Pleas did not alter
 701
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  replied that the Assessment Act made it necessary to state the full value of all tenements, but this did not affect the arrangements between landlords and tenants.
 MR. HENLEY : The compositions are between landlords and parishes.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the decision did not affect these compositions.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he considered it necessary to press his question. The decision of the Court of Common Pleas, as he understood it, completely upset all the arrangements which were made under what was known as Mr. Halsey's Act, which operated to the advantage of a parish, not only by procuring the payment of the rates, whether a tenement happened to be occupied or unoccupied, but also by securing the receipt of the money without the cost of collecting it from some fifty or sixty tenants. That being so it would he well, he thought, that the right hon. Gentleman should consider whether it was not expedient that he should introduce a measure to remedy the inconvenience which in consequence must arise. That and some other matters in connection with the Assessment Act might very well be remedied in one measure.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  then moved in the clause providing for deaths in the workhouse, to leave out
 "And all foes for registering births and deaths in the same, shall be charged by the guardians to the common fund." "Or where the common fund is not calculated upon an equal basis throughout the union or incorporation."
 MR. CAVE  asked the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board whether the Amendment of the hon. Member for South Devon, with regard to a one year settlement, was wide enough to embrace the Gilbert unions and other unions under local acts. If not, there would be a different state of things in them and in the ordinary unions which might he productive of mischief.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, it would, but it was his intention to bring in a Bill
 702
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  asked if it would apply to all the parishes under the Act of Elizabeth, as well as the Gilbert unions.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, it would.
 COLONEL KNOX : I agree that this is not the proper tribunal for the decision of this case; and, therefore, although I cannot help thinking that Colonel Dawkins has been harshly treated by some parties, I should not rise to take part in this discussion but for a letter which was placed in my hands this morning, in which it is stated that—
 "The exercise of the Royal prerogative to place Colonel Dawkins on half pay, threatened him by the Adjutant General, is, as he is informed, considered by Mr. Headlam to be illegal in his ease without a court martial."
 MR. HEADLAM : I have given no opinion whatever upon the subject, and there is not the slightest authority or shadow of foundation for the statement that the hon. Member has read.
 COLONEL KNOX : Is it or is it not legal to put a man upon half-pay compulsorily except upon a medical certificate of incapacity, without trying him by court martial?
 MR. HEADLAM : I decline to answer the legal question.
 COLONEL NORTH : As a Member for the county in which my gallant Friend (Lieutenant-Colonel Dawkins) resides, I was asked to bring forward this case, and to have done so would have given me great satisfaction, had I not felt that the House of Commons was not exactly the place to discuss the discipline of the army. In answer to that application I replied that whenever the interests of officers as a class were concerned I had always found the House of Commons most willing to forward them; but that they would not entertain the question in the case of individuals. Having read the papers placed in my bands by Colonel Dawkins, I am sure every officer acquainted with the facts will feel that that gallant Officer has been most hardly treated. Still I think the House is not the proper tribunal to decide the question. It is the duty of the Commander-in-Chief and other officers to see to the discipline of the army, and they are amenable to the Sovereign. I must, however, say I think the confinement of Colonel Dawkins for eleven days tinder arrest was a great hardship, as well as contrary to the articles of war. The offence—namely, not shaking hands with his superior officer—can come under no known military rule; and it appears to me that Colonel Dawkins did rise and salute his general officer, which
 647
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I hope the House will allow me to make a short explanation on the subject—not in reply to the speech of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Darby Griffith), but merely to explain the circumstances relating to the Question he has put. It is quite true that I received this morning a communication from the hon. Member, stating that he proposed to put a question to me to-night, asking whether I would lay upon the table the proceedings of the Court of Inquiry, and at the same time enclosing a very long statement containing matters of fact, and asking to know whether under the circumstances the Commander-in-Chief would suspend his decision on the case of Colonel Dawkins until the papers were in the hands of Members. I privately informed the hon. Member that I should be prepared to answer the first part of his question this evening. That answer is, that the matters which had to be investigated by the Court of Inquiry were matters relating solely and entirely to questions of discipline, and as to Colonel Dawkins's fitness for command; and that under these circumstances Lord De Grey did not think fit to lay upon the table of the House the proceedings of the court. I beg further to inform the hon. Gentleman that the remainder of his question is so unusual in point of form that he must give due notice of it upon the Votes of the House if he requires an answer. The hon. Member has read the question which he proposed to put to me, and I think the House will see that it contained not only what is extremely unusual in a question asked in this House—an allegation of certain facts—but also a very grave charge against an officer of high standing in the army. It seemed to me that you, Sir, might think it irregular that such a statement should be made in the form of a question, and also that it was desirable that other officers who might be acquainted with the circumstances should have an opportunity of seeing by the notice-paper of the House what was the charge that was made against Lord Frederick Paulet, and of making any statement that they might wish in reply to that of the hon. Member for Devizes. I therefore thought myself perfectly justi-
 648 649
 COLONEL DICKSON : It is with the utmost diffidence and with a painful feeling of responsibility that I rise to make a few remarks upon this case; and I should not have risen if it had not been for the unsatisfactory answers which we have received from the Judge Advocate General, and the short time which is left before the case of this unfortunate officer will be disposed of. I have always thought, and am firmly of opinion, that this House is the last place which ought to be made a tribunal of appeal upon any point of military discipline. At the same time we have heard the testimony which has been borne to the character of this officer. He himself asked me to bring his case before the House, and I directly refused to do so, for the reason which I have just stated; but I did satisfy myself of the facts of the case by reading through the whole of the correspondence relating thereto. I do not mean to trouble the House with the evidence either for or against this officer; but I appeal to the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War and the Government to assure us that no irrevocable step shall be
 652 "Had not proved the falsification of the statements he adduced, and that as he had placed himself at variance with so many officers, senior and junior, his command of a battalion of Guards was not beneficial to the service," 653 "He considered that there was nothing against Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins's character or honour as a gentleman; that Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins's statements as to falsification were partly true; that it was not a case suited for a court martial; but that after the opinion of the Court he gave Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins the option of selling his commission, otherwise he would recommend Her Majesty to exercise her prerogative of placing him on half-pay."
 GENERAL PEEL : I do not exactly know what the precise question is on which hon. Members propose to divide the House; but, if I mistake not, it is whether this House should or should not now adjourn, and that on the plea that if the decision on this matter be not postponed, Colonel Dawkins will not have the opportunity of appealing to have his case further investigated. Now, I know nothing of the case of Colonel Dawkins but what I learnt on Sunday week from a statement of his own in one of the military newspapers; and I would observe that the publication of that statement was, at all events, contrary to military usage. I understand that this gallant officer had at the time made an appeal to the Secretary for War, and that before he received an answer to that appeal he published his case in the press. In my opinion, it would have been much better if he had waited for the answer to his communication addressed to the Secretary of State. It is said, that the House of Commons ought not to interfere with the discipline of the army. In that view I most cordially concur. If you are not satisfied with the conduct of those who administer the affairs of the army, express your want of confidence in them. If you do not approve the mode in which his Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief discharges his duties, take the same course. But what is the case here? I was a Member of the Committee on Military Organizations, and it
 657
 COLONEL DICKSON : I never said anything of the kind. What I stated was, that I had heard only one side of the question, but that I had heard sufficient—if the statements were not contradicted by counter-statements on the opposite side—to show that those other officers had been guilty of tyrannical conduct. I therefore urged upon the Government the propriety of not pressing the matter forward too quickly.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Though I cannot give a positive answer to the question which has just been put to me, yet, as I may be able to throw some light upon it, perhaps I may be allowed to say a few words, though out of order. I think what the hon. Member for Warwick has just stated cannot be true, because the decision of the Commander-in-Chief upon the recommendation of the Court of Inquiry must have been communicated to Colonel Dawkins more than a week or fortnight ago; as after the decision was communicated to him he forwarded an appeal against it to the Secretary of State for War. The result of that appeal I have been able to inform the House; but I cannot say whether Colonel Dawkins received any communication from I the Commander-in-Chief so late as last Thursday or Friday; but the fact of the Commander-in-Chief's decision must have been known to Colonel Dawkins a fortnight ago. I cannot understand by whom it is the wish of the House this matter should be re-considered. Almost every speaker has declined to bring it before the House, and the case can only be re considered by the authorities by whom it had been already considered. [Hon. MEMBERS: By a court martial.] Hon. Members say by a court martial, but the decision as to whether the case shall go to a court martial or not can only be undertaken by the Commander-in-Chief and the authorities of the Horse Guards, by whom the question has already been decided. They will know what has been said in the House; of Commons, and in any course they may take they will act on their own responsibility, but it is quite impossible to give any pledge that the subject shall receive any further consideration.
 MR. PEEL  said, the salary of the Controller General was charged on the Consolidated Fund.
 MR. PEEL  said, the arrangement with regard to the remuneration of Mr. Penne-thorne had been attended with a very considerable saving. He received £1,500 a year for all his duties connected with the Office of Works—such as the repairs of buildings belonging to the Government; but with regard to extra work, as when he was called to design new buildings, he received extra payment.
 MR. PEEL : Not that I know of.
 MR. PEEL  said, that there were two officers' salaries included in the Estimate, the minimum of both being £400. If the maximum in both were charged, the sum would be not £1,092 but £1,200.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the same excuse which the Chancellor of the Exchequer urged for the absence of the right hon. Gentleman—namely, the expectation that they would be so long occupied in discussing Navy Estimates—applied to every other Member, and showed the inconvenience of dodging on the Civil Service Estimates, when nobody knew they would be taken.
 MR. PEEL  said, the sum charged for legal expenses included the gross charge,
 705
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it was irregular
 706
 MR. PEEL  said, the difference between those two items arose from the different nature of the property. In Ireland they had to deal with head-rents, about which there was no difficulty; whereas in Scotland great expense had to be incurred for recovering the property of the Crown. At the same time, that charge was not likely to continue long.
 MR. PEACOCKS  said, he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that this expenditure was incurred to prevent the rights of the Crown being wasted by the cupidity of individuals; and he wished to know how this statement could be reconciled with the fact that when the Government were called upon to fulfil the wishes of the Committee, and prevent the rights of the Crown in Epping Forest being wasted by the cupidity of individuals, the Secretary of the Treasury said that they were unwilling to incur the expense of defending those rights.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The hon. Member must not go into matters which are not before the House.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had told the House that this matter was under the direction of the Woods and Forests, subject to the Treasury, and that they only protected the rights which they considered worth protecting. He had always understood that this property was held in trust for the Crown, and he thought it a very questionable proceeding to allow the Office of Woods and Forests by its own  laches
 MR. HENLEY  reminded the right hon. Gentleman that in the case of the public and the Crown the rights were defended, not at the expense of the Crown, but at the expense of the public.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the only right which the Crown had in Epping Forest was the right to prevent inclosures. The owners of the land were willing to purchase that right, and so long as that was the case the Crown had no hesitation in taking steps to prevent unauthorized inclosures; but in consequence of the Resolution, which was passed, to the effect that no further sale of Crown rights should be made, the result was the rights ceased to have any value whatever; and be undertook to say that, according to the provisions of the Land Revenue Acts, the Commissioners of Woods and Forests were not justified in expending money out of the Crown revenue to assert rights which were not capable of realizing money for the Crown revenue.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Secretary to the Treasury had laid down a very curious doctrine—namely, that this property of the Grown when they could sell it, was worth £5 an acre, but because it was the wish of the House, which had the annual usufruct of the money, that it should not be turned into ready cash, but should remain unprofitable for the present, then that any
 711
 MR. PEEL  said, he supposed that everybody was aware that the Treasury was responsible.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, he did not see that any greater hardship would be inflicted in a case of this kind than in the case of a man out with a sporting dog.
 MR. KINNAIRD  reminded the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir John Trollope) that the Report of this Committee was only
 709
 MR KINNAIRD  apologized for having been led to allude to matters some of which had only transpired that day, but the general results were as he had represented. As far as could he learnt from the public newspapers, the down solicitor was taking no notice of the encroachments at the present time.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that if the Government refused to interpose to procure some delay the responsibility rested on the Government; and as the Government were responsible to the House of Commons, the House had the means of enforcing redress.
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  wished to ask the noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington) a question of some importance with reference to this subject, which bad come to his notice within the last five minutes. The noble Lord appeared to think that notice ought to have been given of the Question before the meeting of the House. Now, he wished to know if it were true that the gallant Colonel whose case was before the House only had notice given to him on Friday last to make up his mind within three days what to do. And he wanted further to know whether the House of Commons was not a proper place to discuss such a grievance when it was brought before it? He regretted that it had come before the House on the Motion of Adjournment, because
 662
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If the reasons which have led to the opinion he expressed (after stating that the Clerk of the Patents and the Clerk to the Commissioners of Patents may hold just as much public money as they think fit, and pay it if they think fit, and if they pay nothing at all there are no means of calling on them to account for such non-payment), that "it would not surprise him at all to find there were a great number of other officers in a similar condition," have led him to make any inquiry into such matters generally, or into any such case in particular; and whether any and what check Her Majesty's Government propose to make with regard to those other officers, if any, who may be in a similar condition with the Clerk of the Patents as regards the power of paying nothing, or holding public money in his hands just as he pleases?
 MR. LYGON  asked, whether it was true, as stated in the various newspapers, that a failure of justice had taken place in a recent case of murder, in consequence of the Advisers of the Crown having neglected to appoint certain Forest officers, who alone could have arrested the persons charged with that heinous crime? Some explanation was due to the House on that matter. Very large sums were squandered by the Departments of Woods and Works in maintaining contests with each other before Parliamentary Committees and elswhere.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY : I only heard at five o'clock this evening that this question was to be brought forward. Having once served in the Guards, and having known and served with the father of this young man, although with him personally I am not acquainted, I rise to say n few words. What I wish, and what I believe this House and the country would wish, is that this officer should have a fair trial. I have always been one who deprecated Courts of Inquiry, considering them the most unfair and tyrannical courts that can be constituted; but I will not give the House my own view. Asking the House to remember that many of the circumstances inquired into by this Court happened more than three years ago, I will read the opinion of Mr. Simmons, the author of the work on Courts Martial, who writes thus as to Courts of Inquiry:—
 "It is not to be presumed or imagined that
 658 ex parte;
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied, that the Admiralty had met the difficulty by reducing the standard from 5 ft. 7 in. to 5 ft, 6 in.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether he will undertake that the Account of the Military Reserve Fund shall in future be made up to the 31st day of December in each year, so that it may be laid upon the table of the House together with the Army Estimates; and whether the Account of the above Fund is regularly audited, and by whom?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether inquiry has been made as to the fact of the authorities of the Royal Artillery having directed Roman Catholic recruits not to be taken for that branch of the service; whether he will state by whom such orders were given, and what steps have been since taken to prevent subordinate authorities, not responsible to Parliament, from issuing or acting upon such orders in future; and whether general orders will be published to all Officers engaged in recruiting for the Army, to make no distinction of religion in taking recruits for any branch of Her Majesty's service.
 MR. AYRTON  thought this a very serious question. It was really whether, after the House of Commons had passed a Resolution which was distasteful to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, that Office was to be allowed to set up its back against the determination of the House, and pursue a course of proceeding which had the effect of entirely defeating the Resolution. If by the evidence taken be-
 710
 MR. AYRTON  trusted the right hon. Gentleman would not bring the subject forward again until the Committee were able to report on the conduct of the officer concerned. It was a most serious case, and they would pursue it.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked if Mr. Pennethorne was now preparing any designs for new buildings in Kensington?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  complained that the Chief Commissioner was not in his place at a time when the sums for his Department were being voted, to give explanation and information that might be required. He wished to ask a question with regard to the salaried architect and surveyor. They had been told that there were several plans preparing relative to certain galleries at South Kensington for the reception of certain collections for the British Museum. Now, they had already had to pay large sums for the preparation of plans upon this land. Was Mr. Penne-thorne occupied in preparing any plans at present, and was he paid extra for these beyond what he received as salaried architect and surveyor?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  again rose to address the House, but was met with continued cries for a Division.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : In case the Government do not grant the reasonable delay that has been asked for I shall adopt the unusual course of dividing the House upon this question.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for
 642 Gazette A laugh. 643 "Others should not suffer because Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins ran riot, and that he would make Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins parade so many times a-day."
 COLONEL FRENCH  was of opinion that the Secretary to the Treasury was the person who was responsible.
 MR. PEACOCKE  was perfectly surprised that the Secretary to the Treasury should have sat in his place and allowed the Committee to suppose that it was the right hon. Gentleman the Commissioner of Works who was responsible. He would ask, had not a charge to that effect been made, and had it not been tacitly accepted by the right hon. Gentleman? The Commissioner of Works had nothing to do with this department, which was under the Woods and Forests, who were responsible to the Treasury.
 MR. PEACOCKE  observed that nothing could be more unfounded than the statement that these disputed rights were valueless. They had been sold for about £6 an acre.
 MR. PEACOCKE  thought the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Cox) hardly so much out of order, because the House was already in possession of the evidence to which he had referred. It appeared that the rights of the Crown and the public had not been maintained in Epping Forest, because the Government would not incur the expense of litigation. If that principle was to be acted upon, what Crown property would be safe? But while the Government refused to vindicate the right of the public to these open spaces they were not unwilling to expend upwards of £7,000 for other legal charges, which demanded inquiry from the Committee.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  asked whether Colonel Crawley's case had not been first inquired into by a Court of Inquiry, and then by a court martial.
 MR. BRIGHT : The noble Lord at the head of Her Majesty's Government has thought proper to read—or rather to speak—a lecture to the hon. and gallant Gentlemen opposite and to charge them with gross inconsistency in bringing this question before the House of Commons, whilst they at the same time admit that the House of Commons is not a good and proper court of appeal to discuss military matters. Perhaps it did not occur to him that that very inconsistency was an argument in favour of the strength of their case; because we may take it for granted that those Gentlemen would not have brought this case before the House holding that opinion—an opinion with which I must say I cannot altogether concur—if they had not thought it one of extreme hardship. I think the hon. Gentleman the Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) who introduced this subject, stated that he was principally induced to mention it in the House to-night because if the subject had not been mentioned here to-night it would afterwards have been too late to do so—and that in part the character, and certainly the status, and in some degree the pecuniary
 659 660
 MR. HENNESSY  called attention to the fact that while the minimum salary of the itinerant surveyor was £400, and the maximum £600, the sum charged was £1,092, which appeared to be the maximum in both cases.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the Solicitor to the Board of Works, in addition to his £1,800 a year in salary, was allowed, for fees to counsel and law stationers' charges, £1,000 a year. His salary was greater than that of an Under
 704
 MR. HENNESSY  called upon some Member of the Government to explain the extraordinary discrepancy between the law charges for Scotland and Ireland; £2,000 was asked for Scotland, and only £250 for Ireland.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that in order to give effect to what he understood to be the intentions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it would be necessary to insert the words "in this country," otherwise a loan raised in Canada for Canadian purposes would be liable to the duty.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he would withdraw the Amendment, but in doing so would remind the Committee that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had used the words "raised at home" in his description of the loans to be raised under this Resolution.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the great object of the Resolution to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred was that Epping Forest should be kept open for the benefit of the public at large. But immediately that Resolution was passed the officers of the Crown seemed to have said that they would take no steps for that purpose, but would allow persons to inclose right and left.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he looked upon the recovery of small sums by the Treasury as very unimportant compared with the maintenance of great public privileges; but it was certainly competent to any Member to ask how much money was devoted to Epping Forest to maintain the public rights, which rights, if maintained, would be of great benefit for the public at large. He wanted to know whether any attention had been paid to these rights; and for himself, he must express the opinion that the rights of the public had been utterly ignored by the Crown. If the Government contemplated spending this money to protect the rights of the public, he should be happy to vote it; but he thought that more explanation should be furnished before they did so.
 MR. LOCKE  thought that the maintenance of the rights of the Crown was most important, because they would prevent inclosure in the Forest. The Department was often ready enough to enforce some trumpery right of the Crown, but when the use of a large tract of land like this by the public was at stake, they declined to interfere. This being so, the rights of the public, placed in the Crown, were set aside. The Crown rights might have been in abeyance; but time did not run against the Crown, and therefore they might be resumed at any time. The question demanded from the House its most serious consideration, and before they voted the money the Committee had a right to know whether it was intended to perform that duty to the public which had been hitherto so entirely neglected.
 MR. ROGERS  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether and change is about to made in the present organization of the Military Train; and, whether the Officers are now allowed to purchase their steps as in other Regiments of the Line?
 MR. DILLWYN  thought the Government were not treating the Committee fairly in now pressing on that Vote, and he would support the Motion for reporting Progress.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he was often at a loss to know how rights claimed for the Crown could benefit the public. There was one remarkable case on the coast of Scotland, where poor fishermen had been in the habit for years of taking mussels; but the Crown, in the exercise of one of these rights, had latterly taken to charging a small rent for this privilege. How did the public gain?
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that claims had been asserted on the part of the Crown in Scotland to every little inch of mud, and
 707
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he could not help thinking that the Estimate for this Department was most extravagant—£32,148 for surveying and looking after public works and buildings. It was £5,000 more than the expense of the Home Office. He found surveyor of works with a salary of £1,000; salaried architect and surveyor, £1,500; assistant-surveyor of works in London, £600; assistant to ditto, £300; assistant-surveyor of works out of London, £500; itinerant ditto for post offices and probate registries, £400; examiner of claims for rates on Government property, £400. He thought the Government paid no rates, and did not, therefore, see why they should pay an officer £400 a year for examining the claims for rates on Government property. Then there was an assistant-surveyor for Scotland, £500; clerk to ditto, £320; solicitor, £1,800. In a note they were informed the Solicitor in Scotland was not a salaried officer, and he was put down at £250. He thought the Government ought to be ashamed of these charges, and that next year an effort would be made to reduce them. He would himself move a reduction, but he feared it would be of no use.
 MR. MALINS : If this were a purely military question, I should not have addressed a single observation upon it to the House. Nor should I rise even now but for the accidental circumstance that I happened to have been acquainted many years ago with the father of Colonel Dawkins, who was a distinguished officer who served at Waterloo, and who died in honour and respect in the early part of the present year. I know well the high position which Colonel Dawkins's family hold in the county of Oxford; and I understand the situation of the member of it whose case is now under consideration to be this, that being to-day a major of a battalion of Guards, the alternative open to him atone o'clock to-morrow will be either to sell out of his regiment, or consent to be placed upon half-pay. Now the necessity of accepting either alternative will, as I understand it, be regarded by Colonel Dawkins, his family, and his brother officers, as casting a stigma upon his character as a soldier for the rest of his life. The matter, therefore, is one which is clearly deserving of the most mature consideration; and no step ought, in my opinion, to be taken in it by the Government, without the perfect certainty that the country, on whose behalf they act, will feel that they have done what is just. I was always under the impression
 654 655
 MR. WALPOLE : I should like to understand what will be the position of hon. Members if we divide upon this question. As the case has been argued it seems pretty plain bow we ought to proceed with reference to the great principle maintained on both sides of the House. Most people will, no doubt, agree that a question of the discipline of the army ought not to be interfered with in any way by this House; and, on the other hand, I think it is true, as has been stated in the debate, that if a case of grievance arises this House has the power to interfere. Then I agree with my right hon. Friend the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) that, as in that case a question of confidence is raised in the head of the Department, it ought not at any rate to be decided without ample notice being first given. I should be sorry to be misunderstood as to the vote which I am about to give. But the Government will give me leave to say that there is an intermediate course they might adopt by which they might avoid the division and remove the difficulty, namely, by their undertaking to represent to the head of the Horse Guards that the case should be further inquired into.
 MR. WALPOLE  was of opinion that as much revenue could be obtained by keeping the duty at a moderate amount.
 MR. WALPOLE  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not agree to the Amendment. The Resolution was according to the usual form, and the Government were quite right to make it general.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Resolution involved an equal scale of charge, reduced by one-fifth.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  then proposed the second Resolution, the object of which he stated to be to
 713
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to propose certain Resolutions, in addition to the general Resolution to which he had referred in the financial statement. The first Resolution had been only considered since the financial statement and referred to the transfer of mortgages. The law on the subject at present was very defective, and it was proposed to amend it by imposing on the transfer of
 712 ad valorem s. d. s. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in the next Resolution it was necessary that the distinction should be inserted, because the question
 714
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the fourth Resolution was somewhat complicated, and involved minute details with which he would not now detain the Committee. The principal branches of insurance were three—namely, Life Insurance, Fire Insurance, and Marine Insurance; but of late years there had sprung up a business in insurance of a very varied character. For example, there was now cattle insurance against loss by disease; hailstorm insurance against loss by hailstorms; plate-glass insurance against loss by breakage, and chiefly applicable to shop windows; railway accidents and accidental death insurance; and for all these kinds of insurance the arrangements made were more or less anomalous and unequal, and in some the duty was higher than it ought to be. With regard to railway accident insurance, 5 per cent was paid on the gross receipts of the Company. The Company was satisfied with that arrangement, and the Exchequer was satisfied also, as the duty was levied in a way which secured its easy collection and just payment, and they, therefore, did not intend to disturb that arrangement. He was anxious that it should be understood that these new duties would apply only to contracts made after the passing of the Act, and to all renewals of existing insurances if it be found to the interest of the parties to preserve the old rates. As regarded the new rates, their object was to come as near as they could to 5 per cent with all the rest, but they could not in all cases
 715
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment. If the limitation were inserted in the present instance great inconvenience might arise in its absence in other cases.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  denied that these proceedings were undertaken frivolously or from any abstract love of litigation. They were instituted from a sense of duty. The rights of the Crown had to be vindicated, and its property preserved from waste, dilapidation, or lapsing into private hands.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it had been expected that when they got into Committee of Supply they would be engaged in a long discussion on the Navy Estimates, and therefore his right hon. Friend was not present. If it was the desire of the Committee that the Vote should in the meantime be withdrawn there could be no objection to that course.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the two cases were entirely different. They incurred expense when they thought it worth while to do so, but in the case just referred to they did not think so. There was no inconsistency in the Office of Woods, which was constituted by Act of Parliament expressly for
 708
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  thought that the right hon. Gentleman entertained curious notions of the duty of a trustee. It was the duty of a trustee to act for the benefit of those for whom he was trustee; and if there existed abstract rights, the vindication of which would cost more than they were worth, it was not the duty of a trustee to enter upon litigation in respect to them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That is very difficult to say. I have been aware of it for many years, and have made efforts to get a better system established with respect to the particular offices, amid, I am sorry to say, great difficulties and considerable delays.
 639
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, as the first part of my hon. Friend's question is rather long, perhaps I may as well state what has taken place. In a document in the possession of the House I am truly stated to have given evidence before a Committee of the House of Lords on the accountability of a certain public official—the Clerk of the Patent Office. The words here ascribed to me were used in point of fact by the noble Earl (the Earl of Derby) in putting a question to me, and I replied to it in the affirmative. I stated that it was unquestionably the fact that in the case of the Patent Office there was no security for the safe custody of the public money nor for its transmission to its destination in the Exchequer. I
 638
 MR. COGAN  said, that under this clause the police would have the power to inquire of any person passing along the street accompanied by a dog whether a licence had been taken out for the dog. He considered the provision arbitrary and inquisitorial, and moved that the clause be omitted.
 MR. COGAN  wished to enter his protest against the Bill, as being of a most arbitrary character. Seeing several other clauses on the paper to be brought up, which he considered of a very extraordinary character, he moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. COX  said, the rights of the Crown might appear infinitesimal on paper, but in practice they had the effect of preventing inclosures which would otherwise be made. In one case a purchaser had been willing to give £3,000 for the Crown rights over 600 acres of land; and yet the Government were now willing to let 14,000 or 15,000 acres go without the slightest effort to protect them. It was high time, therefore, that steps should be taken by others.
 MR. COX  said, if the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Commissioner of Works were present, he would cite him as a witness to what he was about to say. A Committee sitting upstairs, of which he was a Member, had found that the manner in which business connected with the property of the Crown had been conducted was this—The Crown possessed rights over the whole of Epping Forest, and up to a certain period the Government sold from time to time to private individuals the rights of the Crown over certain portions of that forest. They had it in evidence that one purchaser had paid to the Crown £3,000 for 600 acres. The hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Peaeocke) had moved and carried a Resolution in that House declaring that all further sales of the rights of the Crown over Epping Forest should cease, because it was desirable to maintain the open spaces for the recreation of the inhabitants of the metropolis. Yet they had it proved in evidence from the First Commissioner of Works that ever since that Resolution was passed inclosures had been and were taking place at Epping Forest without the Crown receiving a shilling, and that the Department adopted no steps whatever to prevent them on the ground of expense. There remained sonic 12,000 or 14,000 acres over which the Crown had rights, and if those rights over 600 acres were worth £3,000, it was easy to calculate what was their value as regarded those 12,000 or 14,000 acres. Yet the House was now called upon to vote £7,400 for legal expenses. He begged to move that the Chairman now report Progress.
 MR. COX  said, the Committee was a public one, and the evidence it took was published in the newspapers.
 COLONEL SYKES  pointed out that the solicitor received £l,500ayear as a salary; his four clerks, £1,176; on account of disbursements, £3,000 a year more. The solicitor in Scotland received £2,000 a year, and in Ireland, £250. The other legal expenses were for the land revenue department, £400 a year; ditto in Scotland and Ireland, £200 a year; ditto in Wales, £900. Thus there was a sum of £6,000 for legal expenses, or about 16 per cent of the total charges.
 COLONEL SYKES  objected that the salary of the Controller General was not given. This was necessary to show what was the entire cost of the Department.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that as the clause was now worded the owner of every dog must carry the licence about with him.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he should consent to report Progress.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Vote had no reference to the Department presided over by the Chief Commissioner of Works. The Committee were still prosecuting their inquiries, but had not made their Report. The hon. Member for Fins-bury had been guilty of an irregularity in referring to evidence which had as yet been printed for the use of the Select Committee only.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  was understood to say, that if the hon. Member would give him particulars of the case of murder to which he had referred, he would make inquiries into it. He had not as yet heard of it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Notwithstanding what has just been stated by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite, the House seems to be wishing now to interfere with the discretion of the Commander-in-Chief to this extent—that Her Majesty is never to be advised to place an officer on half-pay, so as to prevent his promotion in the regiment, unless he has done something to subject himself to the articles of war, or to expose himself to a court martial. I know nothing of this case except what I have seen in the newspapers, and not so much of their contents as some hon. Members who have spoken; but if I have collected the facts correctly they amount to this—that the Commander-in-Chief has thought it necessary to prevent an officer from assuming command of a Battalion of Guards, not because he has done any act which would subject him to trial by court martial, but because, under the peculiar circumstances—from infirmity of temper—he was not thought fit to be intrusted with that command. Is the House of Commons prepared to say that, under such circumstances, the Government ought to interfere with the discretion of the Commander-in-Chief?
 SIR HENRY STRACEY : Far be it from me to say anything in deprecation or depreciation of the Duke of Cambridge. He doubtless acted on the report he received as the result of the court of inquiry. When every Member of the Administration pleads ignorance of this case, and the Commander-in-Chief has said that the allegations made
 661
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE : How long has the right hon. Gentleman been aware of the existence of such cases as those to which he has referred?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON : I do not intend to depart from the principle of the noble Lord's request that a discussion should not be taken on the merits of this case, upon this or perhaps upon any other occasion, for I agree with him in thinking that the House of Commons is not the place to discuss questions of military discipline. But I trust that the House will allow me to say a few words, because this may be the only opportunity which I or any other of Colonel Dawkins's friends may have of saying that which may mitigate to him or his family the grievous consequences which may result to them from the step which has been taken by the Commander-in-Chief. I do not desire to enter into the circumstances of this case—with which I believe I am fully acquainted—but I believe that I speak the sentiments of the greater part of those who are so acquainted with the matter when I say that there is deep sympathy with Colonel Dawkins. He is a man who has passed through a long period of service with unblemished honour and has many warm and sincere friends. I myself had the honour of serving with him in the Crimea, and knew him for many years before, I was on detatchment duty although in another regiment under his immediate command, and I can only say that not only did I never suffer from any infirmity of this officer's temper, but that it was the close intimacy which I then formed with him that has led me to continue and to be proud of the friendship which I always felt for him. I shall not be contradicted by any one—even by the authorities—when I say that, even if Colonel Dawkins should be removed from the full pay list, neither His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief, his superior officers, or any one who has known him, will be able to allege any single fact against him which will at all detract from his reputation, or cause him to be looked down upon in after life in consequence of that event. Allow me to say that while I believe that this is a hard case and that deep sympathy is felt for Colonel Dawkins, I do not mean to allege against his Royal Highness that he has strained the law or refused that gallant officer a fair trial. Indeed, I believe that His Royal Highness took the only course it was possible to adopt in appointing a Court of Inquiry of superior officers, not
 650
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY : I do hope we shall have some answer from the Government—some pledge as to delay. As matters stand it will be too late to take any action after one o'clock to-morrow. As an old soldier I appeal to the Government to do justice in this case.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, the purchase in question had been made with a view to inclosure; but that took place before the inquiry by the Committee over which he presided. Everybody knew that the Lords of the soil could and did favour inclosures. The Crown, on the contrary, had no rights in the soil.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE , as Chairman of the Committee upon this subject which sat two years since, said, that it appeared to him that the right of the Crown in the Forest was simply that of herbage and I browsing for the deer. The deer had now disappeared, and therefore the rights of the Crown were now extremely difficult to define. In former times Lords of the manor had purchased the rights of the Crown in order to get rid of the deer; but it appeared that the rights of the Crown were at present exceedingly small and worthless.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK : The Judge Advocate has just declined to answer a question in which every Member of the House has great interest, because it is a
 651 Gazette,
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he did not think any hardship likely to arise from the working of the clause. The same regulation existed in the case of sporting dogs.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  asked some Member of the Government to prevail upon the First Commissioner of Works to exert himself for the improvement of the Royal Parks. The same watering carts were used as in his childhood, and apparently the same horses and men.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I know nothing of this case, and I did not intend to say a single word to the prejudice of Colonel Dawkins; but I must protest against the unfair, irregular, and inconsistent course which has been pursued by certain hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House upon this occasion. If they had thought that the case of Colonel Dawkins was one with regard to which this House was a competent tribunal to appeal to, and if they intended to make such an appeal, they ought to have given due notice on the point to those whose duty it is to defend the course taken by the military authorities, in order that they might prepare themselves to meet this attack and defend what has been done. Hon. Gentlemen, I may add, while they set out by saying that the House of Commons is not a court of appeal on military questions, yet have one after another made appeals— ex parte
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : But that makes out my assertion. What can be more unfair, I would ask, than having heard only one side of a question, not knowing what may be urged in reply, relying merely on what this officer said and that officer said, to make observations which imply a charge of tyranny against certain officers, as the hon. and gallant Gentleman has done? ["No, no!"] I think it is the duty of every man to abstain from applying such a word as "tyrannical" to any officer before he has ascertained whether the statement on which
 656 ex parte
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I beg leave to state that the hon. Member cannot have been attending sufficiently to what I said. I quoted the statements of hon. Gentlemen opposite, and I made no such statement on my own part. If I were to state my own opinions, they might, perhaps, be found to tally much more with those of the hon. Member who has just sat down than with those of hon. Gentlemen opposite.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, nobody can call in question the propriety of the discretion which the hon. Gentleman has exercised in not anticipating by a statement in this House the inquiry which the Lord Chancellor himself has desired should be entered upon. His Lord ship is of opinion that, although explanations have been given by me which he had reason to believe would have been completely satisfactory, the moment there was any appearance that any considerable number of Members of the House of Commons thought that the inquiry which has been moved for by the hon. Member would be in any degree useful or satisfactory it was most desirable that they should be gratified in this respect. I must own, speaking entirely for myself, that I should have been glad if the hon. Gentleman's own feelings had led him to omit from his Motion the words at the end which seemed to imply at the outset a question as to the truth of the answers which were given in this House. However, that is for the hon. Member to determine; he has thought fit to ask for such an inquiry, and that inquiry the Lord Chancellor is anxious should take place. With respect to myself, I can as sure the hon. Gentleman that nothing could possibly have been more surprising to me than to be informed, as I was by Mr. Wilde
 777 778
 MR. HEYGATE : I am glad that this inquiry is to be granted by Her Majesty's Government. The present case, however, is not the only one affecting the high legal personage in question. I regret very much to say that there are painful rumours connected with another case of a similar kind, in which a highly respectable gentleman
 780
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : As the question is to be referred to a Select Committee, I do not think it is desirable that this discussion should be prolonged. The hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand) in a manner which became him, made no statement in moving for the Committee, and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli) also abstained from discussing the subject. I regret that the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Lord Robert Cecil) should have enlarged the discussion, and I think it would be better now to agree to the Motion at once.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he wished to ask a Question relative to the Roman Catholic Oath Bill, which stood on the Orders for to-night. He was not going to enter into the merits of that Bill, but every Member of the Government who had spoken on the subject had expressed a strong opinion in favour of having one form of oath which should be taken by all Members of that House, and he wished to know, whether the Government had any intention of bringing in a Bill which would adopt one uniform oath to be taken by all the Queen's subjects. This question was one which ought to be dealt with by the Government, and not left to a private Member like the right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell), for whose Bill, though he sympathized with him very much, he could not vote. As in the old days the defences of this country were committed to the Government of the Sovereign, so, in regard to these oaths, which were meant to be a protection to the Sovereign and her Throne, it was the duty of the Government, and no one else, to take up any measure which might be necessary. He trusted, therefore, that the Government, seeing the feeling of the House so strong on the subject, would not delay in bringing forward some measure which would give relief to all Her Majesty's subjects.
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE : The hon. Gentleman has wasted a vast deal of virtuous indignation, but he does not seem to notice that there is a vast distinction between a Lord Chancellor who simply exercised his patronage in favour of his relatives, which, no doubt, had frequently been done, and a Lord Chancellor who took a course by which offices became vacant in order to fill them up by the appointment of his relatives. It
 784
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : Sir, I am not going to offer any opposition to the proposal that this matter should be referred to a Committee to be nominated by the Committee of Selection. I do not share in the absolute belief in the impartiality of such a Committee which appears to prevail; but that opinion, I know, is cherished with the fondness of a religious belief, and I should be sorry to disturb it. I shall be glad to see this impartial Committee when it is nominated, and I will indulge in the charitable hope that it will realize all that is expected of it. But I own I am alarmed at the suggestion of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Malins). His proposal to strike out all the lawyers would simply be braining the Committee—it would simply be taking out all its brains. At all events, it would be taking out all the brains that are available for this purpose. What possible idea can we have of a judicial inquiry from which all lawyers are excluded? Who is to cross-examine? Who is to probe the case—who but those whose regular training and talent in the performance of the duties that are necessary to the discovery of the truth, which do not come to a man instinctively, but only after long study and experience? In addition to the five or seven impartial Members I should prefer to have two thoroughly partial lawyers, whose duty it would be to conduct the case on either side. Because I do not see how the case is to be proved at all, or how these charges are to be followed home, if you merely throw them down before the Committee and tell the Members to make the best of them. There is another point which I would also suggest. The Government must be well aware of the truth of what the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Heygate) says, that these are not the only rumours which have been current. Several of these bankruptcy appointments have been subjected to imputations precisely similar. I do not suggest that those imputations are true, because I have, of course, no knowledge on the subject; but there is a strong  primâ facie 782
 MR. AYRTON : The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) objects to extending the inquiry, because it would occupy too much time; but that is hardly a view which the House ought to adopt, although it appears to me that there are serious reasons why the Committee should not proceed beyond the question which is immediately before us. I think it would be a dangerous thing if upon vague insinuations unaccompanied by facts, such as we have heard from the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Heygate), the House was immediately to set about inquiring into them. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud says, that if you embark upon an extended inquiry it would not be finished until the end of the Session, but that is not a reason for not extending the inquiry if it be needful. My objection is that the House ought not to be carried away by all sorts of rumours, and that we ought not to recognize any facts to be inquired into until some hon. Member holds himself responsible for their presentation to the House. When any grievance has a solid foundation there is no difficulty in finding some Member to bring it before the House.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it had been suggested that it was very desirable, when an hon. Member was displeased with the state of the House, that he should rise in his place and publicly make that statement. He was displeased with the then appearance of the House, and he begged to call the Speaker's attention to the circumstance.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think my hon. Friend the Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand) has acted quite right in not making any statement on this occasion. Whatever that statement might have been, and however accurate, it must have been an  ex parte ex parte bonâ fide 779
 MR. DISRAELI : It is extremely in convenient to discuss the important question of Roman Catholic oaths in this desultory way,  à propos 744
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government, Whether he had taken into his favourable consideration the division of yesterday? His own experience in the House, no doubt, would have shown the noble Lord that had the division been taken on the merits of the case the majority would have been on the other side. Under the circumstances the noble Lord must see that the feeling of the House was in favour of delay, and he hoped, therefore, that the noble Lord's well-known urbanity and skill in throwing oil on the troubled waters of dissension would lead him to promise that further consideration should be given to this case.
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, I really think we are going a little too far in the matter at present. As the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Ferrand) had given notice of moving for this Committee, I came down like other Members who were interested in the subject, to hear his statement. I was rather surprised to learn, when I came to the House, that the Government had consented to the Committee, and thought that nothing could be more fair and ready than the statement of the Lord Chancellor that he courted inquiry. The hon. Gentleman opposite very properly abstained from making any statement in moving for the Committee. Then the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli) made a suggestion with which I entirely agree, which was received in a very proper spirit by the Government, the Home Secretary stating that they desired the inquiry should he searching and judicial, and therefore they agreed to the nomination of the Committee by the Committee of Selection. I think it would have
 783
 MR. HADFIELD : I am at a loss to understand the crime imputed to the Lord Chancellor. I have always understood that Lord Chancellors are in the habit of exercising great patronage, and that they favour their relations. If anybody believes that they exercise it for the benefit of strangers, or of merit, he must be very innocent indeed. It happens that at the present moment there are three sinecures of £8,000 each which have been enjoyed for half a century, and one indeed for nearly a century. Talk of exercising patronage for the benefit of relatives! Why the practice has been associated with the history of the country since the time of Bacon. I believe that the present attack upon an individual is suggested more by political motives than by justice.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he concurred with the right hon. Baronet as to the in expediency of discussing such matters in that House, but he was compelled to bring the matter before them because there was no other way in which they could be specially dealt with. He hoped the House would grant the inquiry he asked for.
 MR. WHALLEY  then rose to move that this House resolve itself into Committee of the Whole House, in order that the Chairman might be directed to move that leave be given to bring in a Bill for better enforcing the Law against illegal usages and ornaments in the Church of England, and especially in respect to the practice of Auricular Confession. He said that letters had reached him respecting several Protestant ladies who had been locked up in religious establishments, and he feared that the tendency in all these cases was that the girls lost their reason. As a sample of these institutions he would refer to the one presided over by Miss Sellon. He believed that many of these institutions
 775
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire and report to the House as to the mode in which the service of the Established Church is administered at the Church of St. Paul's, Brighton, of which the Rev. A. D. Wagner is perpetual curate, and especially as to that part of the service of the said Church called Sacramental Confession, as referred to by the said Rev. A. D. Wagner in recent proceedings before the magistrates at Trowbridge, Wiltshire, against Constance E. Kent; and generally to inquire into the like practices in other churches by clergy men of the Established Church. In justification of the Motion he might refer to Motions of a kindred nature which had been made during the present and previous Sessions, in reference especially to those proceedings of the Roman Catholic Church which affected the females professing that religion. The subject which had more recently attracted so much attention throughout the country was that which had arisen in the case of the unfortunate Constance Kent. The subject fixed itself especially upon the attention of the House, from the fact that the practice carried on at St. Paul's Church, Brighton, had come into direct collision with the law in our Courts of Justice. The terms "sacramental confession" and "seal of confession" were unknown to the laws of England, and unknown, as he believed, to the Church. They were a novelty, and a very formidable novelty, when introduced into our Church, and they were especially so when brought into collision with the administration of the law. The Roman Catholic Church deemed auricular confession a necessary and compulsory part of their religious service; while, so far as confession was adopted in the Church of England, according to the canons and rules of ecclesiastical law, it was entirely a voluntary act, and was in
 768 "The last matter which had engaged his attention was that of private confession—whether it was voluntary or obligatory. The canons before the Reformation recognized it, but the language of the formularies, of the Church gave no sanction to private confession, while by the homilies it was condemned. He believed the practice had been attended with the greatest danger; it was capable of being perverted to the vilest purposes, and was repugnant to the manly common sense and independent mind of the great mass of the English people." 769 The hon. Member was interrupted by cries of and other noises. Renewed cries of v. Church Times, 770
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was under the impression it was £15,000 a year for some successive years. The Bishop said in his speech in the House of Lords—
 MR. WHALLEY : It had been said, that whatever these grievances, it was most inexpedient to introduce the affairs of the Church into this House, and that they could be dealt with by the laws which regulated the Church. But he believed he was fully justified in introducing them even if in the case of this Mr. Wagner these practices bad not been brought, as it were, in collision with the laws of the country; and the more so as the Bishop of London was of opinion that the difficulties which presented themselves to the application of any remedies were absolutely insuperable. The Bishop said that he had instituted proceedings in respect to the practices of St. Alban's, Holborn; but that he despaired of bringing the matter to a satisfactory termination. If anything more than his Lordship's testimony on this point was required the House need only refer to the case of "Westerton  v. v. 771
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member cannot quote a speech made in the other House of Parliament.
 MR. HENNESSY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Will the right hon. Gentleman give the name of the writer of the letter?
 MR. MAGUIRE , in moving a Resolution on the subject of the abolition of the unjust duty on foreign paper, said, he was about to ask the House and the Government to do an act of common justice, and before doing so, it would be his duty to place before them a case of as grievous hardship as, he believed, had at any time occupied the attention of the Parliament. In private life if one individual wronged another he was bound by every law of gentlemanly feeling, as well as by justice and morality, to repair to the best of his power the wrong he had done. He did not think that a Government or Parliament should be guided by different rules. He thought he would be able to show that in 1860 a step attended with most disastrous results to one of the most important and interesting trades of the United Kingdom had been taken by the Government and the Parliament of this 'country. He believed he could adduce the most incontrovertible proofs that Parliament had inflicted a great hardship on the British manufacturers of paper, and had acted towards them in distinct contravention of that very principle of free trade to which they proposed to give effect. One of the most important features in the Budget of that year was the proposal with respect to the Excise duty on paper. Wisely, the Chancellor of the Exchequer abolished that duty; but, at the same time, in the face of urgent remonstrances from the trade and of Motions in which his attention was directed to the injury which such a measure would inflict on the trade, the right hon. Gentleman repealed the differential Customs' duty on paper. The whole injury to the trade arose from that most rash, unwise, and blundering proceeding. The right hon. Gentleman was reminded that the penny duty had been arranged under a free trade Government; and that it had been imposed as an equivalent to the tax which foreign Governments continued to impose on the export of rags for the advantage of the foreign papermakers. The weight of raw material used annually by the paper manufacturers of the United Kingdom was 200,000 tons, and of that as much as 140,000 tons were rags. The weight of rags produced in this country was about 120,000 tons; it was necessary that the trade should supplement their supply of rags by going abroad for some, and there was an export tax imposed on
 746 747 748 s., 749 and a laugh. 750 "Before you expose the manufacturers of this country to competition with those of other nations you should relieve them from any disadvantages in respect to their raw material, and in respect to the process of manufacture." "We are not willing to give any premium upon the employment of labour and capital in England, but certainly we are not willing to be parties to discouraging the employment of labour and capital in England as compared with other countries." 751 "I have had a correspondence with some and interviews with other paper manufacturers, and every one of them says that the entire ruin of the trade is only a mere question of time if the pre sent system continues. It matter little what class of paper is manufactured; so long as things re main as they are paper manufacturers cannot make a profit. We are called Protectionists, but a more unjust accusation could not be made. For my own part, I have not gained 6 d. "We are makers of coarse paper, and have about £10,000 invested in buildings and machinery. For twenty years, ending December, 1861, we were kept going on full time, with orders chiefly for the London market, at a moderate profit. Since then, however, we have been compelled to run half-time and reduce our prices from £2 to £3 per ton to meet Belgian and Dutch manufacturers; in other words, our profit has disappeared. We have good machinery and cheap coals, yet cannot compete with those who have their raw material protected by express duties. The wholesale stationers in the City know this; and we look with confidence to the Government taking prompt measures to put the trade in a fair and sound position." 752 "In my letter to you last autumn, an extract from which you read in the House of Commons, I stated I had stopped one of my mills for four months for general repairs and the introduction of several improvements, with a view to economize and increase out-turn; that after eight months' working my loss was £88, and that I determined to persevere for twelve months longer. This I have done, but regret to find a serious loss. I am compelled to stop the mill and discharge my hands. I cannot compete with that class of paper—namely, common printing—coming from abroad with a difference of 30 to 40 per cent in the rag material. I have used a proportion of esparto, to which there are many drawbacks, one being the pollution of the stream on which my mills are situated; therefore, without I obtain fair trade in rags, my mill is useless, and a property which should be worth £10,000 not worth as many hundreds." "Since I last wrote to you I have been compelled to stop one of my mills, having a mill full of paper, and no longer able to compete. There is another and a much larger mill than mine that has had to do the same. Mr.—(Westmoreland) has a two-machine mill which has been standing for fully a month. The mill of Messrs.—(Derbyshire), a two-machine mill, has had one of its machines stopped for some time." "I have been engaged as a paper manufacturer for forty years. I embarked the whole of my property in the business, and by great exertions I succeeded in purchasing the mill, from which I got a moderate living, enabling me to bring up a large family respectably. Previous to the late Excise duty being taken off we were then being subjected to competition with the foreigners, and the only way to meet that competition was by erecting new and improved machinery; this cost me £5,000. Mr. Gladstone then admitted foreign paper duty free, without stipulating that the foreigner should take the duty off their rags, and the consequence was that my business was ruined. I have expended £25,000 on my mill, and now can neither work it, nor let it, nor sell it; and, although it is not bringing me in any money, I am called on to pay rates, or have my goods seized. My property is, in a manner, confiscated by the Government. I found it a hopeless contest, and was obliged to close my mill two years and a half ago. It has made a sad change in the neighbourhood, and more especially to myself, since I find that after forty years of most arduous attention to business my capital and all my earnings are sacrificed." "We sent you a statement of our concern on the 14th of July last, 1864, which you mentioned in your speech. We have ever since been struggling hard in turning out more paper, and making every alteration we could possibly think of, and
 753 "The effect of these measures—miscalled free trade—is simply to approve of a heavy foreign tax being levied on all paper made in Great Britain; which tax is applied for the benefit and protection of the foreign paper maker, whose paper is expressly freed from this duty. It is needless to say that the pressure of so unequal and unjust a system of taxation has been disastrous to those who, like ourselves, had the greater part of their capital invested in paper mills and machinery. For ourselves, we can truly declare that ever since that evening when the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced his plan of restoring prosperity to the rural paper mills we have found our trade regularly getting worse, and last year we had a positive loss. We are at our wits'-end to know what to do with our mills; and this change is the more striking, too, seeing that for about half a century previously these mills had been carried on profitably. If we were to shut them down we should still be liable in heavy rent and taxes, while this would then throw out of employment 210 hands. We never believed these measures would have been persisted in so long by an enlightened Legislature, and still feel quite assured that if we could get these high fiscal duties abolished on our raw material we could compete successfully with any foreign rivals Let both foreign and British paper be either equally free or equalled taxed, and we do not fear the result." "I have been actively engaged in paper-making for nearly forty years, and have experienced both brisk and dull times, but have never had such a battle to contend with as that which I have had to fight since October, 1861. Since that date I have not to complain of dull trade, far from it, so long as I offer at the same price as the foreigner, who, by artificial means, can buy his rags £4 or £5 cheaper than I can, and against whom it is impossible to compete with the most remote chance of success, seeing his advantage is so great over me in the cost of his rags. So far from things adjusting themselves, my experience is quite the reverse. Since 1861 each balance-sheet has shown a greater loss than the former; and now that my capital has nearly disappeared I shall be obliged to succumb, unless something be done for our trade by the Government, from whom alone redress can come." 754 "We have been asked to send you, under confidence, what our experience has been as to the result of the foreign treaty, as far as papermakers are concerned. I now, in the name of my partners, reply, that the year previous to the treaty we showed a profit of about £2,000, and that last year, after watching so long for the 'fine days' that Mr. Gladstone said were coming to us, we had the mortification to find, on closing our books, that we had, instead of being gainers by the treaty, been losers to the amount of nearly £2,000. This sort of thing has been going on among the papermakers ever since the treaty came into operation. It is a question of time, no doubt; but as surely as the sun rises, so surely will the papermakers of this country decay and be swept off by the protection given to foreigners, by that most consistent of all—["Hear, hear!" and a laugh. "Since I wrote you upon the same subject last Session I have shut down my Dripsey paper mills, after having suffered a very heavy loss, indeed, in a hopeless competition with the foreign manufacturers. It is not necessary for me to enter upon the merits of this question, the simple fact being that now, after having given constant employment for thirty years to near 300 hands, and having spent large sums of money upon buildings and machinery, I am at length driven out of the market by the operation of the late mistaken
 755 756 757
 MR. MAGUIRE : Has not the person written another letter explaining his former one?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that there would be no difficulty in proving whether the export duty had been paid upon rags by means of a certificate signed by the Consul at the port of shipment. A sufficient reason for his not asking leave to intro duce a Bill upon this subject was to be found in the circumstance that, according to the practice of the House, a private Member was not allowed to introduce a measure affecting trade. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed a desire that the paper trade should be free and unfettered. That was all that he wanted, and he believed that more would be done to wards the attainment of such a result by the adoption of the plan which he proposed than would be accomplished by the negotiations of the Government in a dozen years.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I should like to know how the Government feel as to what the right hon. Gentleman proposes. I am quite sure this ought to be a judicial inquiry, and that the country will not be satisfied if this is made a party question. I therefore hope that, in order to withdraw this question from party considerations, we shall have some intimation that the Government accept the proposal.
 MR. STANILAND  said, it appeared to him the question raised by this Motion was whether or not it was expedient, if the law in its present state was inefficient, that they should alter the law. It was notorious that in the metropolis, as well as in many other parts of the country, the pure and simple form of worship which members of the Church of England had a right to expect, and which up to within a quarter of a century ago would have been found in all the churches of England, had been departed from, and the question was whether it should continue to be performed, or whether the service of the Church of England henceforth in those places should he undistinguishable from that of the Church of Rome. He should be exceedingly sorry to make any observations which a Roman Catholic would consider a reflection on his mode of worship; but speaking as a Protestant, and from his own observation, he must say that the manner in which worship was carried on in some churches of this metropolis, although it might appeal to the fears and superstition of savages, was an insult to the commonsense of the people, and it was a disgrace to the Protestant part of the community that they should allow it to be carried on. If the law did permit this it was a gross scandal that it should be so. If the law did not permit it, it was a re-
 774
 MR. STANILAND  seconded the Motion.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought it would be better before postponing the Bill to have an intimation from the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire that the anticipations of the right hon. Gentleman opposite were well founded, because, if the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire came down with one uniform oath, and inserted words in it for the protection of the Established Church in England and Ire land, that oath would not be agreed to. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman would give a clear, perspicuous, and unambiguous expression of opinion as to the sort of oath which he meant to propose.
 MR. MALINS : Sir, as a member of the professsion the head of which is concerned in this inquiry, I must express my hearty concurrence in the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) and my satisfaction that the Government have acceded to it. It is an inquiry in which I and every other Member of the legal profession feel the deepest interest. I have been long on terms of intimacy with the noble and learned Lord in question, for whose great talents I have the deepest admiration, and whose character I most sincerely hope will come clear out of the inquiry. It is not a light matter that such imputations should be cast upon the head of the profession to which I belong. There is nothing in which the country has a greater interest than that the administration of justice should be pure and the head of it above suspicion. I support the inquiry because I act on the belief that these imputations are unfounded; but I agree that such an inquiry ought not to be conducted by a miscellaneous Committee selected in the usual manner from both sides of the House, and which might be open to party considerations. I would even suggest that no Gentleman of the legal profession should be on the Committee, for the inquiry would be one—affecting as it does the character and position of the head of the profession—in which it is impossible that any of us could sit with satisfaction to ourselves or advantage to the country. In the hands of a Committee appointed by the Committee of Selection an impartial inquiry will take place, which will, I hope and believe, re move those suspicions which have so long attached to the noble and learned Lord's name. On the other hand, if it should turn out that there has been a practice of
 781
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The hon. and learned Gentleman is quite right. This second letter was written in reference to a plan to put an import duty on foreign paper, proposed by the hon. and learned Member, but which he has not stated to the House. This correspondent wrote to me that he had changed his mind, and that he should not so much mind paying 10 s. "I do not mind if my paper, made from straw and esparto, is to be prevented from foreign competition. In that case I shall be recouped, and therefore I shall join in the plan." 761 s. d. s. d. s. d. 762 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s, d. s. d. ad valorem ad valorem. 763 d. d. d. s. s.; 764 "We consider that the outcry as to the adverse influence of the export duties levied on rags by foreign Governments proceeds from misapprehension of the state of the case. The facts of our own experience in reference to this question may be interesting and useful. Our firm are large consumers of paper of the very sorts concerning which the makers were most gloomy in their forebodings, and with regard to which they are most open to the competition of our Continental neighbours. The principle upon which we con duct our establishment is to buy in the cheapest market for cash, and we receive offers from all quarters for the supply of our staple material as printers and publishers, but foreigners and their agents here are unable to successfully compete with the English producer. With an average weekly consumption of about twenty-three tons of printing paper for our various publications, the proportion of foreign paper in this quantity is not more than one-sixteenth. It should not be lost sight of in the course of this controversy that esparto and other materials are fast superseding rags in the manufacture of a large proportion of the paper now produced. Even those papers which the foreigner has the best chance of disposing of in this market are made up, not of rags, but of ingredients not in any way affected by the question of duties. Machine and hand made writings, of which rags form the principal constituent, are produced by English makers without fear of competition; while the cheaper class of printings, concerning which they show the greatest timidity, are a description of article in which rags come to be a minor element. A large proportion of the paper used in the course of our trade contains no rags at all. … The consumption of paper in the business of our firm has nearly doubled since the repeal of the tax, and we venture to say that a smaller quantity of rags is used in the whole of our present supply than was consumed in the lesser supply which sufficed for our needs four or five years ago. The truth is, that a change is taking place in the trade in respect to both the means of production and the conditions under which it can be best carried on.' 765 766
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I will give the letter to the hon. and learned Member.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I am afraid I shall find it somewhat difficult to follow the hon. and learned Gentleman through his somewhat discursive speech on the position of the paper trade; but I am glad that, after depicting so eloquently the hardships under which he says the trade is suffering, he finished his speech by telling us what is the remedy. I do not, however, understand how that remedy would repair the wrong which he says has been done. He commenced his speech by saying that a great wrong had been committed when the House abolished the customs duty on foreign paper, but in the course of his observations he never proposed to re-enact that duty. Now, the whole case was before
 758 759 760 "We beg leave to submit to you the very serious and unjust consequences that will arise to those papermakers who, like ourselves, use no rags, and nothing but raw fibres, if the proposal made to you by those of the trade who use rags largely be carried out. It is to levy some sort of excise duty, of about 10 s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Government contribution is, I believe, £15,000 in all.
 MR. FERRAND  said, that in moving for the appointment of a Select Committee on the Leeds Court of Bankruptcy, it was not his intention to make any re marks in support of that Motion, which he understood the Government did not intend to oppose. He could not, how ever, sit down without alluding to a re mark which fell from the Attorney General the other night with reference to Mr. Wilde. Mr. Wilde had long been a member of the Bar; he was a nephew of the late Lord Chancellor Truro, and a relation of Sir James Wilde, the present Judge of the Probate and Divorce Court; he was also related to many gentlemen in the City of London, and had a large circle of friends, all of whom had read with great pain the remarks of the Attorney General. The hon. and learned Gentleman used the words "personal defalcation" in the same sentence in which he mentioned Mr. Wilde's name. He was told by those who had known Mr. Wilde ever since he was a young man that there was not a more honourable or upright gentleman in Eng land, and that even his most intimate friends had never known him to be guilty of any act which was in the slightest de gree tainted with dishonour. They were therefore astounded at the hard expressions, which fell from the lips of the Attorney
 776
 MR. FERRAND : I think it very un fair that the hon. and learned Gentleman should have entered upon the opinions of the Lord Chancellor on the subject. I forbore to make any  ex parte
 MR. MONSELL  said, he was not in the House last night when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckingham shire (Mr. Disraeli) put a question to the Government in reference to this Bill, nor had he received any notice from the right hon. Gentleman, though he did not com plain of any discourtesy. The right hon. Gentleman suggested that the Bill should not be proceeded with this evening, but should be postponed until a morning sitting on Tuesday next. That course involved some delay, but, on the other hand, the right hon. Gentleman had stated that if
 743
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he rose to move the second reading of the Bill introduced by him to amend the law of libel. The time had, he believed, come when the law of libel should be so altered as to remove anomalies which he hoped to show existed in it. The subject was one that could be considered in the present day apart from party politics, because the time was long gone by when the law of libel was used as an engine to stifle opinion or urge party views. A Bill was introduced by Mr. Fox, which had become the Magna Charta of the press of this country. That Bill took away from the Judges the right of saying what was a libel and transferred it to the jury. Various unsuccessful at tempts were made between 1830 and 1837 to amend the law of libel, but nothing was done until 1843. In the year 1843 a Committee was appointed to consider the law as it then existed, and on their Report a Bill was introduced by Lord Campbell, and was known in the profession as "Lord Campbell's Act." It effected several beneficial alterations in the law, but it did not carry out all the Amendments which the
 786 787
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I have no hesitation in saying that the Government entirely agree with the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) that this inquiry ought to be thorough, searching, and impartial, and if the House is of opinion that it will be best conducted by a limited number of Gentlemen nominated by the Committee of Selection the Government will be ready to adopt that course. I apprehend, how ever, that notice should be given by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ferrand), and if that is done, and the House should concur in the proposal, there will be no opposition on the part of the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he could not consent to the introduction of a Bill of the provisions of which he was entirely ignorant. It might be desirable to amend the law with relation to clergy discipline, but this Bill appeared to be direct ed only against two particular practices, and as its introduction would lead to the renewal of discussions which were very much to be deprecated, he hoped that the House would not allow it to be brought in.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I think the House will agree with me that it would be most inexpedient to grant the Committee which the hon. Member asks for. His first ground for the Motion is the legal proceedings which have taken place in regard
 772 773
 SIR GEORGE GREY : This Question ought rather to have been addressed to my right hon. Friend the Member for Lime rick (Mr. Monsell) as to the course which he intends to pursue. My right hon. Friend has brought in a Bill the effect of which, if adopted by this House, will be that one uniform oath will be taken by all Members of this House, subject only to the difference which exists in the present oath as to the Papal jurisdiction, the Protestant being called on to deny the spiritual jurisdiction, and the Roman Catholic being ex empted from that denial. The House have by a large majority affirmed the principle of that Bill, and I am not pre pared to stand in the way of the progress
 742
 SIR GEORGE GREY : With reference to the Question put last night by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Worcestershire (Mr. Lygon), as to the truth of a statement said to be contained in various news papers, that a failure of justice had taken place in a recent case of alleged murder in Epping Forest in consequence of the Advisers of the Crown having neglected to appoint certain forest officers, who alone could have arrested the person charged, I have to state, that, having inquired into the facts, I find there is not the slightest foundation for that statement. The person referred to, a lad of the age of fifteen, was charged with the offence of shooting a boy. He was immediately arrested by the police, there being no difficulty in the way of the arrest. He was tried before Mr. Justice Willes, and was acquitted on
 741
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : The only answer I can give to the hon. Member is that it appears to me it would be totally and fatally subversive of the discipline of the army if the Commander-in-Chief were not to be allowed to use his discretion as to who should and who should not be considered fit to command a regiment in the service. That principle being admitted—indeed, I think it incontrovertible—it has not been the duty of the Government to take any step in consequences of the discussion of yesterday. As for the division, I do not think the hon. Member has much to congratulate himself on in respect to it.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I may state with regard to a Motion of which the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand) has given notice for this evening that I am authorized by the Lord Chancellor to say that he courts inquiry into the matter to which that Motion refers. I may, there fore, observe that the Motion of the hon. Member for a Select Committee will not be opposed by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. PEEL , in reply, said, the Treasury had no funds at their disposal, with which they could meet any case of this kind. Mr. St. John died in the public service, and the Pension Acts absolutely gave the Treasury no authority, however strong the claim might be, to grant an allowance to the widows and families of public officers. The Commissioners of Customs were anxious to obtain pensions out of the fund attached to the Civil List, but he was not aware whether his noble Friend at the head of the Government had been able to comply with their request.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that after what had taken place in previous discussions, the House would not be surprised if he made a few observations which would be somewhat in the nature of a personal explanation. The House would recollect that during the course of the discussions in previous stages lie had already taken exception to the wholesale charges made against all parts of England, and especially against the county of Oxford in which he lived. It was said that there had been a great and sweeping destruction and demolition of cottages throughout the agricultural districts, for the purpose of clearing off the poor. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board represented those acts as tyrannical, and made some strong remarks
 790 791 792 793 794 795
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose, in conformity with his notice, to move that the Order for the Third Reading be discharged, and that the Bill be re-committed for a certain limited purpose. It had been his intention, in accordance with an established practice, after the re-committal of the Bill and the adoption of his Amendment, to proceed
 801 "That the Order for Third Reading be read and discharged, and the Bill re-committed for the purpose of inserting in the Preamble, after the word "mentioned," the following words; 'And to fix by Law a time whereat the present statutory right of issue on the part of Hankers obtaining such exemption shall determine, in order that either their issues may become subject to the enactments of the Bank Act of 1814 hereinafter mentioned in respect to lapsed issues of Bank Notes, or that Parliament may make further provision concerning them as it shall think fit upon grounds of public policy,' and for the purpose of making Amendments in Clause 8."
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he advocated the recommittal of the Bill, for the purpose of substituting the word "may" for "shall" in the eighth clause, in conformity with an agreement arrived at between the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Association of Bankers on the 11th inst. As that course might seem at first sight inconsistent with the part which he had taken in Committee on the Bill, when he expressed opinions hostile to the whole scope and policy of the measure, he begged the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to explain the reasons inducing him to propose an Amendment having for its object the carrying out of the compromise to which he had just referred, and which, bad he considered himself perfectly free to act, he should certainly not have submitted
 802 803
 MR. HADFIELD  said, there was considerable opposition to the Bill in Sheffield and the neighbourhood, and although they did not approve of the understanding that was come to between the Committee of the Bankers' Association and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, yet they would have abided by it. They objected on principle, and believing it to be a matter that required further consideration they wished to have the Bill referred to a Select Committee of that House, where they could be heard. It was a most important subject involving no less than six millions of capital, and he should propose that in referring the Bill to a Select Committee that the Committee should not sit until after the Whitsuntide holidays. It was contended by the bankers of Sheffield and the neighbourhood that
 804
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman could not then make the Motion. The question before the House was that the order for the third reading should be discharged.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he wished to second the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sheffield.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the gallant Colonel that the Motion was not then before the House.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he did not oppose the re-committal of the Bill. He would make his Motion at a subsequent period of the proceedings.
 MR. NEATE  said, he would like to hear a more satisfactory explanation of the principle of the Bill than had yet been given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Was it framed on the principle that the Government had a right to stop the issue of these private notes unless the banks paid for the privilege, or did it assume that the banks had a perpetual right of issue, and that the right hon. Gentleman wished to induce them to give up the right by securing its exercise for a limited term, and by offering them other advantages? It was clear to him that these banks had an undeniable right to continue their issue, and that they had a right to compensation if the privilege were taken from them. The late Sir Robert Peel was stated to have assured a deputation of bankers in 1844 that the privilege of issue would be continued to them. The definition of a bank note was a note payable to the bearer on demand, and the 9th of Queen Anne gave everybody the right to issue them. Then came the Bank Charter Act. The Chancellor of the Exchequer of the day having ascertained the injurious effects which arose from an unlimited right of issue, restricted
 805
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, it was not his intention then to enter into the merits of the Bill, because he should have ample time for doing it on the third reading. He wished, however, to set himself right in one matter. In the recent discussion which took place on this Bill he considered it his duty to oppose it, and he stated at that time that it was the universal opinion of the country bankers that the Bill was inimical to their interests, and ought not to pass the House of Commons. He was then told that a majority of the bankers had decided in favour of the Bill, and to a certain extent that might be true. There was a meeting of bankers in London, as had been referred to by his hon. Friend the Member for Leicester (Mr. Heygate), and on a division there was a majority of two in favour of proceeding with the Bill, but the promoters consisted of persons deeply interested in the Bill, and Members of the National Bank of Issue, and they were supported, in a great measure, by persons interested in the Bank of England, who no doubt were favourable to the Bill, because they would be glad to see six millions of floating capital absorbed at once. That would not satisfy the country, and he ventured to assert that if the Bill passed it would entail most serious consequences upon its trade, more especially in small towns and their neighbourhoods where district banks circulated their own notes, and where country hank notes were taken with as much confidence as Bank of England paper. Another important meeting of the Bankers' Association had been held that day. All the most important firms in the Kingdom were represented, and he regretted to find that the Chancellor of the Exchequer declined to receive a deputation that afternoon, and that he avoided meeting them to discuss the subject. He trusted, however, that in a short time the right hon. Gentleman would find an opportunity of doing so, because the opinion of
 806 "That the Committee, accompanied by any Members of the House of Commons who will attend with Mr. Beckett Denison, Mr. Bayley, Mr. John Jobson Smith, be requested to solicit an interview with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and to inform him that at a meeting of bankers held this morning, more numerous than any previous one, it was resolved by a large majority that in deference to the very general feeling entertained by the country bankers, he be respectfully requested to withdraw the Bank Issues Bill. Failing this, that this meeting is of opinion that the Amendment of Mr. Salomons should be supported."
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought the discussion at present was not precisely to the purpose. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was willing to put off proceeding any further with the measure for a week. His hon. Friend (Mr. Hadfield) was of opinion, and in that opinion lie shared, that as a week would bring them within a day or two of the usual holidays, it would be better to defer the Motion for the third reading until after Whitsuntide.
 MR. GREAVES  said, he was Chairman of the Bankers' Association, which was first formed in 1857 8—when a Select Committee of that House was appointed to inquire into the general question—for the purpose of defending the issue of both public and private hanks. It was at that time proposed to have two gentlemen appointed on the Committee—one to represent private banks and the other public banks, not for the purpose of influencing the decision of the Committee, but, understanding banking operations, to elicit from the witnesses that information which it was desirable the Committee should obtain. That application was refused by the then
 807
 MR. HUBBARD  agreed as to the desirability of the Government indicating a distinct principle of policy when they propounded a measure of this kind. He differed, however, entirely from the principles laid down by the hon. Member for Oxford. If it were contended that bankers had undoubted and perpetual rights of issue, this must be established upon natural rights of freedom of commerce or upon rights conferred by legislation. In his view, on neither point could private issuers establish their right. As to the question of the natural freedom of com-
 808 809 810
 MR. COBBOLD  said, he wished to ask when the Committee were to meet.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : At once.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that as the Amendment still more obscured the Bill, he had hoped that the re-committal would have been agreed to, for the purpose of taking the discussion of the principle on the third reading. When that Motion was made, he intended to move, as an Amendment, that the third reading be deferred for six months.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the recommittal of the Bill was proposed for the purpose of enabling him to fulfil the engagement to a body of appointed representatives of country bankers, but he had thought it right to include other Amendments of which notice had been given. He must oppose
 811
 MR. COBBOLD  said, that the right hon. the Chancellor of the Exchequer sent to the committee of country bankers on the 17th of April a proposed Amendment in the following words for their acceptance:—
 "The Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury may on, and at any time after, the 1st of January, 1870, by notice in the  London Gazette, The Times "Mr. Hankey proposed that the word 'if' should be omitted from the clause;" 812 "Mr. Hankey withdrew his Amendment, and the Amendment of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with some verbal amendments, was inserted."
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had heard with great regret the attempt of the hon. Gentleman to disturb the arrangement which had been come to after so much discussion and deliberation. The ground of the present opposition of the hon. Gentleman was, that he did not understand what passed on the occasion to which he had alluded. He could not admit that the alteration of which the hon. Member (Mr. Cobbold) now wished to get rid was adopted in a hurried or unintelligible manner. He had himself pointed out, in no inaudible voice, to the Chancellor of the Exchequer the evil tendencies of the Bill as it was originally submitted to the Committee, and the necessity of making some alteration, and the full spirit and character of the
 813 814 815
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was very anxious to narrow, as far as in his power, the ground of the present discussion, and to avoid including many controverted matters it might possibly be their duty to enter on and deal with somewhat largely on a future stage of the Bill. He entirely agreed that very wide issues indeed, and questions of far greater importance than the comparatively limited provisions of this measure, were involved in many of the transactions which had taken place respecting it. But, feeling the importance of these issues, he was very anxious not to anticipate the discussion of them, and thus lead to difficulty or dispute. While he had beard with great satisfaction the speech of his hon. Friends the Members for Warwick (Mr. Greaves) and the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), and others, some things bad been said which it was necessary he should notice. He was bound to repudiate in the strongest terms the declaration of the hon. Member for Leicester (Mr. Heygate)—that he did not conform to the spirit of his arrangement with the private bankers. A more groundless charge had never been made, and if an alteration was made in the form of the Bill, that alteration was much more due to the hon. Gentleman himself than to him. He would now deal with the Motion of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cobbold), and he must give a very different account of what took place in Committee from the extraordinary narrative of the hon. Member. If ever there was a Committee in which, though the Gentlemen present were comparatively few in number, all were interested in the subject-matter of discussion, paying attention to every word that was uttered, and to all appearance perfectly masters of the whole question, it was that Committee. It was therefore astounding to hear the hon. Gentleman, himself a country banker, and appearing there as the representative of a portion of that most intelligent body of men, declaring that the whole affair was so confused that he did not know what was going on. He was reminded by some who took part in the discussion that he had himself been careful to read every word of the Amendment be fore putting it into the hands of the Chairman. It was of no great length; the words
 816 817 818 "And to fix by law a time whereat the present statutory right of issue on the part of bankers obtaining such exemption shall determine, in order that either their issues may become subject to the enactments of the Bank Act of 1844, hereinafter mentioned, in respect to lapsed issues of bank notes, or that Parliament may make further provision concerning them as it shall think fit upon grounds of public policy." 819
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he did not rise to support the proposition of the hon. Member for Ipswich (Mr. Cobbold) because he felt bound in honour to abide by the decision which had been come to on the matter. His recollection of what took place in the Committee differed from that of the right hon. Gentleman, and he must say that the statement of the right hon. Gentleman was a most extraordinary representation of very simple facts. Now, what was the history of the clause which had been amended so many times? He would venture to remind the right hon. Gentleman that he had agreed to a certain form of words upon the 10th of April, but that the country bankers and the public found, upon the printing of the clause, that the form so agreed upon had not been adhered to.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must deny that any such agreement had been made.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he had a printed tasement to the effect that such on agree-
 820 821
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to say a word or two to vindicate himself from a charge of having broken faith.
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he assured the right hon. Gentleman he did not intend to impute to him any breach of faith. What he had stated was that somehow or other, accidentally or otherwise, the clause was not printed in the shape it was agreed on between the committee of bankers and the right hon. Gentleman.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman might not have meant it, but in a former speech he made the charge. The hon. Gentleman seemed to think that he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) ought to have told the Committee that this was an important Amendment and alteration proposed in consequence of a solemn compact, and that if it were not agreed to he must withdraw the Bill. But his own distinct opinion when the Bill was in Committee was, that there was no difference substantially between the form of words urged by the majority of hon. Members and that agreed on with the Bankers' Association, and for that reason he had not felt it right to insist upon the latter.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the House had some reason for not being quite satisfied with the way in which this question had been dealt with, for the Bill in a great degree had been worked outside the House. They were placed in this position, that a
 822
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he proposed the alteration to satisfy apprehensions honestly entertained by many respectable gentlemen.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he presumed that the Bill was re-committed in order to make some alteration in the construction of the Bill. It appeared to be purely a struggle between the bankers on the one side and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) on the other to try whether they could get some curious sort of word in or out of the Bill which might in some way or other fetter the action of Parliament fourteen or fifteen years hence. It would be much better to let the Chancellor of the Exchequer cook the Bill that night as he chose, and then let it be printed, that the country might see what it was like. The "sons of Zeruiah" were quite strong enough to take care of themselves. The House, of course, had nothing to do with the negotiations which had taken place, and was perfectly free to do what it thought best for the country; and it might be a matter for grave consideration whether it would not be the best thing to kick the concern out altogether.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) had taken the House rather by surprise. It was not within the memory of man that a great interest like the banking interest should be dealt with so suddenly without some sort of previous inquiry. He would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether so large an interest as the bankers issuing private notes should be dealt with without inquiry by that House. He knew the great power of the right hon. Gentleman, but he did not think the people of England would be perfectly satisfied with his power or his intelligence without full evidence and information being given about this matter. He was told that the sudden restriction of the issues of the private banks at the end of fifteen years would act as a restriction on the mercantile and manufacturing interests of the country. In the town which he represented there
 823
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman seemed to have overlooked altogether the fact that this was a permissive Bill. If the bankers of the North thought it was not for their interest they might reject it, and leave the bankers of the South to reap all the advantages of it. If the right hon. Gentleman had introduced a compulsory general measure then there might have been some force in the hon. and learned Gentleman's arguments that it ought to be preceded by a most careful inquiry. It was said that this Bill was intended to abolish private issues altogether, but there was a great deal of confusion between putting an end altogether to private issues and putting an end to them on
 824
 MR. CLAY  said, he thought the Bill had got into that unfortunate state which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) was in the habit of calling a "brangle." He was opposed to interfering with the complicated machinery of the banking of this country unless he heard of a proved grievance, and in this case he had heard of none. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had spoken of the negotiations between himself and a committee which he said he had every reason to believe represented every country bank in England. It appeared, however, that the majority of the bankers, as soon as they heard of the agreement come to between the committee and the
 825 ultra vires,
 MR. PAULL  said, he wished to correct a mistake into which the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had fallen with regard to the Bankers' Committee which had negotiated with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The remnant of the Committee of 1844, to which he had referred, had resigned, a new Committee had been formed, and he believed that that Committee which had been in communication with the Chancellor of the Exchequer had in no way exceeded the powers with which they had been invested. The history of that Committee was as follows:—At the general meeting of the country bankers a Committee was appointed, consisting of six gentlemen who represented the private banking interest, and of six others who represented the joint-stock interest, and he did not think it would be possible to constitute a Committee with more formality and regularity. The meeting consisted of between seventy and eighty country bankers, and the Committee was empowered to communicate with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in order to obtain certain Amendments in the preamble of the Bill, and the substitution of the word "may" for the word "shall." So desirous was the Committee to discharge its duty and arrogate no power to itself that notice was sent to the country bankers, which gave them time to appear in person or to state by letter whether, in their opinion, the proposed Amendments ought or ought not to be adopted. The Resolution was formally carried, though by a small majority no doubt; but it had the authority of the Association, and it was as binding as if all the members of the Association had been present. Therefore, the Committee, having been appointed to discharge certain duties, entered into an engagement with
 826
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to ask whether he should be in order in calling the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to Clause 5, which assumed that as the law now stood there could be but six partners in a bank of issue. In point of fact, by an alteration in the law two or three years ago, the number of partners permitted in a bank of issue or not of issue was increased to ten.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that as the Bill had been re-committed on Clause 8 and the preamble only, the hon. Member could not refer to any other clause.
 MAJOR WATERHOUSE  said, that as one of the members of the Committee of Bankers he had entered his protest against the Resolution referred to, and therefore he felt himself at liberty, notwithstanding what had been said by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Paull), to adopt any course he might see fit in reference to the question now before the House. He totally dissented from the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to what occurred the other night when the alteration was made in Clause 8. He had not been present the other evening during the discussion; but he was informed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had at once assented to the alteration suggested by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) without referring the matter to any other party. Hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House had kept silence because they thought themselves safe in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman, and therefore it scarcely became him to reproach them with not having stood up in their own defence. The Bill had become greatly involved and inextricably confused, and the country bankers must now oppose it most strenuously. When it came on again for discussion next week he hoped that the country bankers would meet it with one unanimous burst of opposition. At the present moment, however, no purpose would be served by
 827
 MR. COBBOLD  said, he would assent to the suggestion which had been made that he should withdraw his Amendment, but in doing so he would state that because he was present and silent on a former occasion it did not make him an assenting party to the proceedings; and he would also state that he was justified in having given notice of this Amendment. He would take the opportunity of correcting a misunderstanding which appeared to prevail as to the grounds upon which a large proportion of the country bankers opposed the Bill. In no instance had any advocate of their claims put forward those claims as a right, but simply as a matter of public policy. When the Bill again came on he should move the insertion of the words, "Shall be determined."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not object to the proposed Amendment.
 MR. COBBOLD  said, he wished to suggest that instead of "shall determine" the words should be "shall be determined."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he must decline to accede to the suggestion, because the adoption of that form of words would imply that the rights were not terminable at the present moment.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that the words of the preamble were no part of the Act.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that according to that argu-
 828
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that he spoke as a lawyer, and lawyers always held that the preamble had nothing whatever to do with the enactment.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  said, that if the words of a clause were clear and unambiguous it was not necessary to consult the preamble, but if there was any difficulty as to the interpretation of a clause, lawyers invariably resorted to the preamble in order to ascertain its true construction.
 MR. T. G. BARING , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that in 1862 a Select Committee of that House was appointed to inquire into the existing state of legislation with respect to and into the existing arrangements for the protection of life and property against fire in the metropolis. The Report of the Committee first made it generally known to the public that the London Fire Brigade engines which were to be seen attending all the fires in the metropolis were considered to be connected with the Government, or with the municipal authorities, had, in fact, no official  status 829 "The present scale of staff engines, and stations is utterly inadequate for the general protection of London and its vicinity from fire. This is admitted by the managers of the brigade, but as they consider it efficient for the protection of that part of London where the largest amount of insured property is located, they have no desire to I add to their expense by placing additional stations in situations where, if a fire occurs, it is I not likely to cause so much injury to the offices as if it occurred in the water-side, or warehouses in the City." 830 Geo. 831 832 833
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  said, that the insurance offices were to make over all the plant, stock, and engine-houses of the fire brigade, as at present constituted, to the new brigade, without any compensation, and that was a very handsome contribution on their part. It would still be their duty, at their own expense, to protect salvage. He approved placing the brigade under the management of the Board of Works, which would have greater facility in collecting the rate. The police ought to be confined to their proper duties—namely, the protection of life and property, and not be obliged to look after fires.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he was surprised that the hon. and learned Gentle-
 845 846 847 "On the death of the recorded owner of any real estate, any person claiming as devisee, may apply to the Judge for a fiat directing the officer to record the applicant as owner in the place of the deceased person." s. "until the applicant shall have obtained an order or decision or certificate from Her Majesty's Court of Probate in his favour, and shall have lodged in the office the probate or a true copy of the will or codicil under which he claims, &c" "On the death of the recorded owner of real estate any person claiming as heir-at-law, may apply to the Judge for a fiat directing the officer to record the applicant. If there should be any doubt, dispute, or litigation touching the ownership of the estate of a deceased owner, the Court may appoint a person to be recorded in his place, as the representative of such estate, &c" 848 849
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the right hon. and learned Gentleman was out of order in referring to what was said in the other House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that he only wished to refer to what that noble Lord had said to show that the Attorney General was in error when he said the Bill had received the assent of all parties in the other House. He had been informed that it was not the case. He was of opinion that the Bill was open to very serious objections, and with all respect for Lord Westbury be considered that it was the most complicated, difficult, novel, and singular measure ever introduced into that House, or that he had ever heard of be-
 850
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, a notion appeared to exist that in recent legislation there had been a tendency to introduce a principle both novel and dangerous. It seemed to be thought that there was a kind of magic in registration. The fact was, that registration of titles and deeds was not new. It had been known to Europe for more than 1,000 years, and had existed in the time of Justinian; but the principle had always been that the title when registered was the same as it had been before registration, and that registration only fixed the priority of the instrument. Under the first Empire in France a case came under the consideration of the Court of Cassation, presided over by the greatest lawyer of the time, who had a chief part in drawing up the Code Napoleon, and they decided that no defect of registration would affect the title, because the registration was merely to record not to determine the title. The Estates Court in Ireland had been rendered necessary by a very extraordinary state of things, and the Act creating it was a revolutionary measure, called for by the vicious state of the law of property. It was an anomalous institution. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) once proposed to institute an Estates Court for England. He (Sir George Bowyer) thought the proposal both dangerous and mischievous; he did not think the circumstances of England rendered such an Act necessary. Admit in England the necessity of a court for the transfer of landed property, and you would require a court for the
 851
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he hardly knew whether his right hon. Friend (Mr. Whiteside) or the hon. Baronet who had just spoken intended to object to the Bill or not; for, although they had indulged in criticizms upon it, they had not asked the House to reject it. With regard to the principle of the Bill, he did not think any two persons could differ as to its excellence. What was its principle? Parliament had established in Ireland a Landed and Estates Court, the operation of which was after a careful investigation at great pains and expense to give to any person who had a good title a complete and indefeasible Parliamentary title. Instead of holding boxes of parchment and abstracts of titles extending to hundreds of pages, he received a small slip of parchment, which stated that he was the indefeasible and Parliamentary holder of the estate. Under these circumstances, what was the first observation which any man unlearned in the law would make? He would say it was an admirable system, and a most excellent piece of legislation which accomplished; such an object. He would also further entertain no doubt that the means had been secured by the Legislature for preventing that title from becoming entangled and I obscured as in times past. But what would he say if he were told that Parliament had done nothing of the kind—that it certainly j had established a court to restore a Parliamentary title, but that the moment that was done persons having claims against the estate might recommence the old system, incumbrance might be heaped upon in
 852 853
 MR. WHITESIDE  inquired if his hon. and learned Friend meant to say that the Judge of the Probate Court in Ireland had jurisdiction over real estate where there was no personal estate.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Probably not; but no one ever heard of a case of real property being devised without there being some personal property. But that did not militate against the provisions of the present Bill, for if the decision could not be in favour of the applicant's title, the applicant's title would not be recorded. There was another circumstance connected with the Bill which commended itself to his mind, that was, that it did not involve the creation of any new staff of Judges or officers, and that the only expense incurred would be the mere clerical expense of the writing. Any man who had once put his land on the record, if his experience convinced him of the folly of doing it, would be able to take it off and restore himself to his former condition. He thought that the provision requiring the judgment creditor to enter his judgment on the record of the estate was a wise one. As for the case of the guardian and his ward put by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Whiteside), he thought it was only one of those bugbears which were put forward to frighten the House; for if the property had not passed out of the hands of the guardian the Court of Chancery would be strong enough to make him restore it to the owner, and if it had passed by sale into the hands of a  bona fide 854
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought that the Bill would do no harm, but did not believe it would work as well as was expected. It was idle to think that the transfer of land could ever be made as simple a matter as the transfer of stock. He did not think there was the least analogy between the case of the transfer of land and that of the transfer of stock or the transfer of a ship; though he had heard the present Lord Chancellor say he hoped to see the transfer of land made as simple as that of stock, and though his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Hugh Cairns) had adduced the transfer of a ship as an illustration of what might be done with land. In the case of stock or of a ship nothing was looked to but the legal title. If A possessed stock he could go into the Bank of England and transfer it to B, and a ship could be disposed of in the same way; but neither were the subjects of family settlements, extending, perhaps, through several generations. This was the difference between them and land. Till they resolved that land should be transferred without any regard to equitable titles, they could never make its transfer a simple one. He did not offer any opposition to the Bill. It was a recommendation to the measure that it was only permissive, and if the gentlemen of Ireland were anxious for it, let them have it; hut let them not suppose that the Bill would do away with all the difficulties connected with the transfer of land. On the contrary, he believed those difficulties would speedily become as complicated under this Bill as they were under the present system, if not more so.
 MR. COGAN  said, many of the objec-
 855
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, this was a measure of law reform which was sanctioned by the House of Lords, and which to his great surprise and unfeigned delight, unlike other measures, did not create new jobs, superannuations, and so on; hut provided machinery which could be worked at a small expense. Still he was not so sanguine as to anticipate from it any great amount of benefit. It was said the people of Ireland were anxious for it. He knew how it had been written up, talked up, and lectured up, until the people believed that something like the regeneration of Ireland would result from it. Well, let them try it. He would vote for the second reading, but not under the expectation of the benefits which had been predicted as likely to accrue from it.
 MR. MURPHY  said, he disclaimed on the part of the body of solicitors any opposition to any measure properly tending to the development of the landed interest of the country. He did not think that the present Bill would afford much better provision than the laws of the country already provided, but as it was the wish of the country that it should be passed he should support the second reading.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply to the remarks which had been made by the hon. and learned Member for Wallingford (Mr. Malins) in reference to specific performance, that it must be borne in mind that the principle on which County Courts were established at all was that it was better to administer rough justice than none, and to have questions settled—as far as possible—without having the property involved eaten up, as was frequently
 859
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that the drawing of the  Bellerophon Bellerophon
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had to express his satisfaction at the introduction of the Bill. He regretted to find that any person in that House should suggest as a defect in the measure the proposal that the administration of that which was purely a local matter should be confided to those who had been specially charged by Parliament with the conduct of the local affairs of the metropolis. He thought that the reasons assigned by the Under Secretary were conclusive against any attempt to place the administration of the fire establishment in the hands of the police. Formerly, every parish was supposed to provide machinery for extinguishing fires within its own area, but, practically, the parishes were the very worst authorities to whom this duty could be intrusted. The jurisdiction, therefore, had been replaced by another as completely as steam fire-engines replaced the hand-pumps of former
 835 836
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if the Bill were to become law, it would be necessary to consider the position of the registrars of County Courts, with the view of securing that they should possess some legal qualification. They should be either barristers or attorneys. In answer to the argument of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir Fitz Roy Kelly), who had laid it down as a doctrine to be universally adopted, that persons ought not to pay fees who had recourse to a court of justice, he would observe that he entirely dissented from that view. Suitors went there for their own benefit, or through their own fault; and when the County Courts were first established, a pledge was given that the fees should be commensurate with the whole expense of those courts.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : I got my figures from the Agricultural Society of Norfolk.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he was a member of the Committee, and had always opposed the scheme for placing the brigade in the hands of the Commissioners of Police. There was another matter which took the present Bill entirely away from the arrangements suggested by the Committee. It had been assumed by the Committee that it would not be consistent for them to assume any arrangements with the insurance companies; but if the brigade were placed in the hands of the Metropolitan Board of Works they would be able to make the insurance offices, as well as the Government, parties to this measure. In his judgment the proposed scheme would work remarkably well. At present the insurance offices had their chief stations in the heart of London, where most property was accumulated, and one advantage of the Government plan would be that the stations would be more fairly distributed through the metropolis. He believed that the Bill was an excellent one, and that its principle was sound, though its details might perhaps be improved in Committee. He might observe, that under the Fire Act every parish was bound to provide the means of extinguishing fires, but the Committee ascertained that many of the engines belonging to parishes were no larger than garden engines.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he objected to
 856
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he was anxious to take the earliest opportunity of thanking Her Majesty's Government for the introduction of this Bill, which would effect a greater improvement in that branch of the administration of justice which more immediately concerned the labouring and many of the middle classes than any measure which had for a long time been brought before the House. At the same time he entirely agreed with what had been said by his hon. and learned Friend opposite (Mr. Craufurd) as to the insufficiency of the remuneration of County Court Judges. Their claims had been on more than one occasion altogether disregarded in that House, though there had been, he believed, a contrary disposition in the House of Lords. Although all the highest authorities had desired to do them justice, objections had always been raised, emanating, as it was supposed, from the Finance Minister, or those who regulated the administration of the finances compromises had been come to, and Bills involving the question of the proper remuneration of these Judges had never had fair play in either House of Parliament. There was within Her Majesty's dominions no more important or more useful, no more hardly worked and badly paid class of men than the County Court Judges, and he hoped that the House would at last be able and be willing to do them justice. He hoped that a sufficient interval would be allowed before the Bill went into Committee to enable the House to receive Returns upon which might be framed Amendments to the system of paying the County Court Judges an additional remuneration out of fees, which, as proposed by this Bill, appeared to him to be the worst that the wit of man could have devised. If no other Member proposed such Amendments, he should himself give notice of them, and he therefore hoped that the House would not be asked to go into Committee until after Whitsuntide.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had misunderstood him if he thought he objected to the imposition of fees. What he had stated on the subject was that the salary of the Judge should not depend on the chance sum taken for fees.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) by his Bill, instead of settling matters, was unsettling everything. The right hon. Gentleman had gone back to the large areas which were tried in the time of Elizabeth, but were reduced again; which were again tried in the time of Charles II. and again reduced. They were likewise tried in Ireland, but were subsequently reduced because it was found impossible to work them. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed great sympathy for the rural poor, but it was not known to him perhaps that the rural population were the longest lived of the whole community. He (Mr. Knight) had applied to the Registrar General for some statistics upon this subject, when that functionary placed in his hand the following ^information—namely, that the rural population were 15 per cent longer lived than the urban population. Of the rural population 33 per cent were the labouring population. Now that 33 per cent were much longer lived than the remaining 55 per cent of the rural population generally. That was to say, a man of twenty years of age of the labouring population of a rural district might reasonably expect to live two years and nine months longer than one of the remaining classes of the rural population. The right hon. Gentleman said it was for the good of the working classes he had brought forward this Bill, but he had made admissions as to some of its provisions, that he did not expect they would gain anything by it. The right hon. Gentleman said that the farmers would be benefited by this measure because they would not be obliged to employ partially infirm labourers, and their rates would be reduced. Now, how those two things were consistent with an increased benefit to the poor, to him (Mr. Knight, did not appear. Mr. Chadwick and those other gentlemen with whom the
 798 799 800
 MR. BENTINCK : Wherever the right hon. Gentleman obtained his information, the statements he had made in respect to the county of Norfolk were as inaccurate as those contained in the Report relating to the county of Oxford. He would tell the right hon. Gentleman that both the population and the number of houses in his county were much on the increase. He was glad in having this opportunity of exculpating his part of the country from the unfounded charges which had been
 796 797
 MR. BENTINCK  said, before the House went to a division upon this question he should like to offer a few words in reference to some charges which had been preferred at a former stage of this measure by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board against that part of the country with which he (Mr. Bentinck) had the honour to be connected, reading from the remarkable Report from which it appeared the right hon. Gentleman had received his information.
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, the proposition of the Government varied from the Report of the Committee in two respects—as regarded a contribution to the support of the brigade from persons whose houses had been on fire, and as regarded placing the brigade under the Metropolitan Board of Works, instead of the police. The Committee were unanimous in their recommendation that the brigade should he under the control of the police; and the same unanimity pervaded the witnesses, who all rejected the idea of subjecting it to the
 840
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to know whether any attempt would be made to establish a scale of fees, as had been suggested by Lord St. Leonards, in another place, for cases of small value in the Court of Chancery.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether, in the distribution of the Constabulary Force in the several counties and towns in Ireland contemplated in the Constabulary Force (Ireland) Act Amendment, Bill he intends to withdraw the extra Police from the county of Tipperary, who have no duties to perform, and are paid out of the local rates.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that no doubt, ere
 839
 MR. VANCE  said, that he had been informed that in Dublin the money for licences to public-houses did not go to the municipal corporation funds. When the question arose in Dublin he was in favour of placing the brigade under the police instead of the municipal Board.
 MR. VANCE  said, that as a Member of the Select Committee that sat on the subject of the Fire Brigade, he wished to observe that he did not complain of the scheme which the Government had proposed, though be thought it strange that they should have entirely contravened the Report of the Committee. The Committee unanimously recommended that the brigade should be placed under the control of the police authorities; but though there were two Members of the Government on the Committee, they put no questions, nor examined any witnesses with a view to show that it was desirable that the brigade should be put under the direction of the Metropolitan Board of Works. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had alluded to the excellent way in which affairs were managed in Manchester. In Liverpool, also, matters were managed well, and there the fire brigade which worked efficiently was in the hands of the police. He did not complain of the Vote of £10,000 from the public funds; but be would remind hon. Gentlemen opposite that in the city which he represented (Dublin) there was a very efficient fire brigade, and there were several important public buildings, and a small contribution would be useful. It had transpired during the investigation of the Committee that it was in the mercantile portion of London that the greater number of fires took place, and it was there that the most numerous stations of the brigade were established. In other parts of the metropolis occupied by the residences of private gentlemen the stations were sparse. It was proved before the Committee that there was no adequate protection for life and property in many parts, such as Belgravia and Tyburnia, and he trusted the Government would give more stations in those districts. He did not oppose the Bill, but must repeat that he thought it strange that upon such slight reasons as those stated by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baring) the Report of the Committee in nearly every point should be
 838
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he did not agree with the idea of relieving those who had no fires at the expense of those who had the misfortune so to suffer. He objected strongly to the proposed payment by the Government of £10,000 a year, as it was a local question, and ought to be met by a local rate. In all these matters relating to the metropolis there appeared to be a vital error. It was thought that because it was the metropolis it ought to have support from the public revenues; but there was not a city in the realm that would not be happy to give something to have the Government establishments there. The Government proposed to contribute
 837
 MR. MALINS  said, that although he did not intend to oppose the second reading of the Bill, he could not give it so cordial an approval as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) had done. He entertained considerable fears as to its working, and grave doubts as to the expediency of having a number of small Courts of Chancery all over the country. It was most important that the County Court Judges should not be overloaded with work, because if they were the whole system would break down. At present they could only try actions at law up to £50, and why their jurisdiction in equity should be extended to £500 he could not understand. The cases involving actions at law were simple indeed compared with those which involved equity. In the former case it was generally a simple question whether a man should or should not pay a debt There were two reasons for the existing limitations—one, that the courts were not of so high a character that they ought to decide questions of great importance, and the other that it was necessary that they should deal only with such cases as could be easily and speedily disposed of. By this Bill it was proposed to give them jurisdiction in all matters of foreclosure and redemption, enforcing liens or charges upon land, and bills for specific performance, without saying anything as to the pleadings to be adopted or the modes of trial to be followed. These classes of cases, espe-
 858
 MR. TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether he will state the following particulars relating to Her Majesty's Ship  Bellerophon: Bellerophon,
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY , as Chairman of the Committee which had inquired into this subject, said, that though he was of a different opinion, he now thought that the Metropolitan Board of Works would be likely to carry out this arrangement most efficiently. One reason was that the police in London were divided into the Metropolitan and City forces, and the conflicting interests which thus existed would effect the proper working of the force. The scheme was really the same as that existing in
 841
 MR. COGAN  said, he moved to omit Clause 21. It gave an arbritrary, unconstitutional, and inquisitorial power, not only to a magistrate, but to every constable of police in Ireland.
 MR. COX  said, the clause was one which would not be tolerated for a moment in England. As it stood any man who kept a dog would be liable, if he were going to a dinner party, to be pounced upon by a policeman with the demand, "Where's your licence?"
 MR. MITFORD  said, that he had supported the Bill, but felt that in the case of strikes or other extraordinary circumstances it would cast heavy burdens on rural parishes adjoining great towns. He had opposed the Amendment for the redistribution of unions, because the power to effect this already existed, and in hopes that the President of the Poor Law Board would give some pledge as to the exercise of this power. He (Mr. Mitford) had waited till the eleventh hour in hopes that this would be given, but the right hon. Gentleman had throughout evaded that question. In the debate on Mr. Baines' Bill the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) said that an alteration of the boundaries of unions would be necessary in some cases where rural parishes were included in the same union as populous towns. This is what he (Mr. Mitford) said now. The President of the Poor Law Board had promised to bring in a Bill to abolish Gilbert unions, when a favourable opportunity would be afforded to go into the whole question of re-distribution. He (Mr. Mitford) hoped to see shortly the end of the present cumbersome and costly system of making and collecting poor rates, and that for this purpose all the parishes of a union should be deemed to be one parish. He lived in a union of twenty-seven parishes which ran very much into each other. The practice was to call upon the overseers to make and collect a separate rate in each parish. Fees were paid to Justices Clerks, and much trouble and travelling resulted. Moreover, these functionaries were not always very competent for this work. He thought that the Board of Guardians should be empowered to make and collect these rates.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, In what way the Government propose to give effect to the Recommendation of the Commissioners of Customs that the services of their late Senior Surveyor General, Mr. St. John, should be recognized in some special manner?
 MR. W. O. GORE  said, he thought it unreasonable to press this Motion after the division and majority against it the other night, but the clause, he must admit, was rather loosely worded.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE : And all of them out of order.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, the origin of the present Bill was, that the insurance companies had given notice that they would not continue their establishments and staff, and, therefore, the question of what was to be done became imperative. He had had occasion to consider the question very much. He entirely disapproved the employment of the police, and he was not prepared to say that this was not the best scheme that had been proposed; but he was afraid that the control of the Metropolitan Board of Works would not prove satisfactory. That Board consisted only of forty members, and they had undertaken works of the most gigantic character, and been intrusted with the most unlimited powers of taxation. He felt that, looking at the experimental nature of the works they were carrying on, looking at the fact that they already taxed the metropolitan districts to the extent of £6,000,000 a year, and that a good many people believed these experimental works would prove a total failure, they ought not to be intrusted with further taxing powers, being still a comparatively untried body. At all events, the Government ought to look to the constitution of the Board and see whether their number was sufficient for the work. If the forty members of the Board were cut up into several committees, it might be found that they would not be capable of discharging their new duties. He objected to any penalty being imposed upon people who had the calamity of their property being destroyed by fire.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he was surprised to find the Government would not accede to the insertion of a clause (of which he had given notice) to repeal an old act of the Irish Parliament, forbidding the use and possession of certain kinds of dogs, unless the owner had £100 a year real property. He, however, would not divide the House, and left upon the Government the responsibility of retaining such a disgraceful law.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he did not oppose the second reading of the Bill, but objected to the 13th Clause. As that clause was originally framed the Judges were not to receive additions which would raise their salaries to more than £1,600 a year, while as it now stood the additions were not to exceed £300 a year, so that the salaries of those Judges who now received £1,500 a year might be raised to £1,800. He also objected to the equal distribution of the fees among all the Judges, so that the Judge of an agricultural district, upon whom comparatively little extra labour might be imposed by this Bill, would receive as great an addition to his salary as would the Judge of one of the populous districts in Lancashire, upon whom it might impose a very large amount of extra work. He did not concur in the mode proposed of paying additional salaries by fees. It was not desirable that suitors should feel that they were paying the salaries of the Judges, and he should prefer that the amount be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the proposal of the hon. Member had been disposed of by a large majority the other evening, and he therefore thought the clause ought not to be objected to now.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that the extra force of police causing a large additional burden on the county had been sent into Tipperary on the requisition of the magistrates, and it was only on a requisition from the magistrates that they could be withdrawn. If the hon. Gentleman could induce the magistrates to petition the Government for their withdrawal they would only be too happy to acquiesce in their request.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, though he approved of the scope of the Bill which had been very clearly stated by the hon. Member, he had doubts upon the manner in which the brigade was to
 834 dejeuners s. s.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the reference now proposed to be made differed completely from any of those references which, had hitherto been made upon the subject. He thought the hon. Member's object would have been more properly obtained by having the matter referred to the Standing Orders Division Committee, instead of to the Standing Orders Committee.
 MR. T. G. BARING  replied, that such a Bill was in preparation, but as Reports on the subject had been so recently printed, and it was desirable to give the trade an opportunity of making any representations which they might desire to put forward, the Bill would not be introduced till after Whitsuntide.
 MR. CORRY  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether the proposed scheme for the abolition of the rank of Master, which the First Lord of the Admiralty has stated is to be laid before Parliament previously to its final adoption, will specify what increase it would occasion in the numbers on the Active Lists to which the Officers now in the Line of Masters would be removed; whether, in order to obviate stagnation of promotion from those Lists so increased it will provide for a proportionate increase of the Superior Lists; and whether it will comprise an Estimate of its immediate and prospective effects on the amount of the Vote for Half-pay and Retirement to Officers of the Navy?
 MR. CARD WELL  said, that the Despatches received from New Zealand by the last mail would be immediately printed and laid before the House. They would show that, in one instance, a friendly native chief had obtained a victory over a rebel native chief; that a rebel chief had been captured in another case. It might be agreeable to the House to learn that the Colonial Government had sent home £500,000 of their debentures, to be delivered to Her Majesty's Treasury on account of their debt to this country.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I do not know whether it is necessary in the opinion of the House that I should follow the hon. Member who has just sat down through the first part of his speech, in which he attempted to defend the course he has taken in bringing a matter of this nature before the House for discussion; because when upon a former occasion the hon. Gentleman brought the subject forward almost every hon. Member who rose to speak—especially those upon his own side—commenced their speeches by observing that the question was one which, under no circumstances, ought to be introduced for discussion in the House of Commons. ["No, no!"] The arguments, I may add, which the hon. Gentleman employed this evening to justify the course which he has taken appears to be that inasmuch as the Commander-in-Chief is subordinate to the Secretary of State for War, and the Secretary of State is responsible to this House for the manner in which he administers the affairs of the army, therefore this House has a right to enter, when it pleases, into all the details of military administration. I quite admit the
 888
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I do not wish to impute to the hon. Member the use of that particular word. But it was certainly alleged that Colonel Dawkins had been very hardly treated by his brother officers. [Mr. DARBY GRIFFITH: I said by the authorities.] The impression left on my mind by the discussion the other night was, that the complaint was that certain officers in his regiment had in the first instance taken a dislike to Colonel Dawkins, that they had persecuted him and made against him a series of trifling charges which were finally investigated by an incompetent tribunal, and that on the report of that incompetent tribunal he had been ejected from the service. That appears, as shortly as I can put it, to be the line of argument taken in defence of Colonel Dawkins. I think that in the interests of truth and justice, and for the reputation of those officers whose conduct has been assailed, it is necessary that I should enter very shortly into the history of this case. It is a great error to suppose, as many Gentlemen seem to suppose, that the Court of Inquiry was appointed to inquire into any charges which might be made against Colonel Dawkins; the fact is that the Court was appointed to inquire into certain allegations made by Colonel Dawkins against his superior officers. The facts of the case are these. For a great many years—in fact these things began in 1859—Colonel Dawkins had had serious misunderstandings,
 893 894 895 primâ facie 896 897 898 899 900
 GENERAL PEEL : There are two points on which I think the House are almost unanimous, although, at first sight, those points appear perfectly antagonistic to each other. One point on which I think we are unanimous is that it is not proper nor convenient for this House to interfere in questions of discipline or to constitute themselves a court of appeal from the decisions of the military authorities. The other point on which I believe we are equally unanimous is, that if any individual has a grievance to complain of he has a right to come to this House for redress, let the consequences be what they may. Now, how are we to reconcile the action of the House so as not to interfere with the discipline of the army on the one hand, and at the same time not to refuse to hear those who may have a grievance to complain of on the other? The question may appear to be one of some difficulty, and it is to its solution I propose, with the permission of the House, to address myself. Nothing is more delicate or inconvenient than to interfere with the discipline of the army. It is a grave question, trenching on the prerogative of the Crown; because I think it is perfectly incontestible that the Crown has the power to dismiss or dispense with the services of any officer in the service. But you have a Minister responsible for the
 901 "The whole notion of there being anything unconstitutional in bringing the army more under the Ministry of the day, seems to me to arise from a confusion between the powers exercised by responsible Ministers of the Crown, and powers exercised by Parliamentary Committees or some mode of that kind. Undoubtedly it was very unconstitutional in the Long Parliament that all the powers of the State should be assumed by Committees of the House of Commons, but that power over the army should be exercised by a responsible servant of the Crown, appears to me to be an absolutely essential principle of our constitution." "I am bound to say I think in our service hitherto there has been want of sufficient firmness in refusing promotion to those who did not deserve it. Some very remarkable instances of that came under my notice when I held the office of Secretary of War." "Not unless he was qualified; an officer would not be allowed to obtain it by purchase who would not be allowed to obtain it without." "If the Commander-in-Chief did not conceive that a major reported ready to purchase was not fit to be intrusted with the command of a battalion, he would not permit him to purchase? "Certainly not; he would fail in his duty if he did." 902 "It would be a very strong case, would it not, when a General made a report that an officer having risen to the rank of major, was not fit to purchase the next step on?" "Very strong, indeed, and I think it is a pity it should be so. I think if those things were more looked into, and less delicacy and indulgence exercised, it would be better for the service." ex parte 903 ex parte 904
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he wished to explain that the reason why he did not answer the question put to him the other night was that when he came down to the House on that occasion he had no official knowledge of the case, and though he had heard statements respecting it buzzed about, he had refrained from making inquiries, thinking that it might come before him in his official capacity. On that occasion it was stated by the hon. and gallant Member for Dungannon (Major Knox) that he had given a legal opinion on the case. Upon that he (Mr. Headlam) stated that there was no foundation whatever for the statement, and that he had given no opinion whatever upon the subject. When the hon. Member asked him whether he would undertake to say that the proceedings before the Court of Inquiry as well as the sentence were strictly legal, he, knowing nothing whatever about the matter, gave no opinion, or perhaps replied in a vague manner. He did not think it would have been right for him to have stated absolutely that the proceedings were regular or irregular when he had received no information on the point.
 COLONEL DICKSON  said, that having already on the former debate expressed a decided opinion with regard to the treatment of Colonel Dawkins, he now rose only to express his regret that the Government had not interfered to put a stop to the unfortunate cause of dispute between that House and the military authorities, which must be most injurious to the service, and which might eventuate in one of those great military scandals which were so much to be deplored. He perfectly agreed with the observation of the Under Secretary for War as to the inconvenience which would arise were that House to interfere with the authorities at the Horse
 905
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : But whether the hon. Member gave me
 889 890 "May not cases often occur in which a man has some notorious defect; it may be want of temper, or he is notoriously below the average understanding, a man whom it is very undesirable to appoint, and yet a man of whom it cannot be said that there is anything against his character to justify you in putting a stigma upon him and forbidding him to receive the regular promotion which he expected by right of seniority?" "Certainly; but I am in hopes that by good inspection the Commander-in-Chief will be informed by the inspecting general, as I think it is his duty to inform him, that a man is from his temperament unsuitable for the command of a regiment; and if such a report came to me as Commander-in-Chief I should have no hesitation in saying, 'There is nothing against your character, but you are unfit from natural defects, and therefore you cannot be promoted.' I see no difficulty in it. At present there is the power, hut it is not exercised." "I see no difficulty whatever, but as I said before it must be backed by public opinion, otherwise no man, in my opinion, could exercise that power." 891 892
 MR. J. B. SMITH  believed that the colonies were more indebted for their peace and prosperity to the mother country than she was indebted to them; but that to flourish in a healthy and enduring manner communities, like individuals, must be self-reliant. The tide of emigration, however, had set in towards the United States rather than towards our own colonies, because the American Government had passed what was called the Homestead Law, giving land to settlers for nothing. Under those circumstances our enterprizing fellow-subjects would not go to distant colonies, where they had to pay £1 per acre for land.
 MR. PEEL  said, his own opinion, after taking some pains to examine into the question, was that there was no power in the Act to which the hon. Member had referred, or in any other Act, to authorize the payment of a sum of £500 per annum towards the assistance of poor fishermen in Ireland. An Act was passed in the year 1819 which gave the Lord Lieutenant the power of issuing to the Commissioners of Fisheries in Ireland an annual sum of £5,000 for the construction of fishing piers and harbours; but that Act was only to be in force for five years from the end of the next Session of Parliament, and it accordingly expired in the year 1825. It was then renewed until the year 1830; when, under a new arrangement, a body was created, called the "Directors of Inland Navigation." The Lord Lieutenant by the Act of 1830 was authorized to issue to the Directors of Inland Navigation for the completion of piers which had already been commenced a sum of £13,000, which was to be expended in a period extending over five years; and since the expiration of those five years the Lord Lieutenant had no money at his disposal which he could devote to that object.
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  thought that the hon. Member for Banff is entitled to the thanks of the House for having brought this question forward. The question of providing harbours of refuge had occupied the attention of the House for several successive years; and although a division was obtained in 1859 in favour of carrying out the recommendation of the Commissioners, yet in a subsequent year that decision was reversed. If that recommendation had been carried out, there would have been no necessity for urging the matter upon the attention of the House at the present moment; but the question being, as it were, in abeyance, and there being great difficulty in obtaining the construction of harbours of refuge on a larger scale, he thought they would do well to press on the Treasury the necessity of seeing what could be done by means of smaller works for these poor fishermen. Indeed, it is a question of humanity and public policy. The losses sustained by the fishermen were very severe. These poor people lived entirely by the produce of their fishing, and it not unfrequently happened that for three days out of the seven they were prevented from going to the
 920
 MR. PEEL  said, that having already addressed the House upon the Question of going into Committee of Supply, he was precluded from saying more than a few words in answer to the question of his hon. Friend. The hon. Gentleman was in error in stating that the fee on branding herrings was a fund available for carrying out the object he sought. That fund was raised for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the establishment of the Fishery Board of Scotland; and he could assure his hon. Friend that it did not make the establishment self-supporting or anything like self-supporting. It was quite true that a larger sum had been realized from that source than was anticipated when the fee was first imposed; but all the sums received were paid into the Exchequer, and expended in strict conformity with the provisions of the Act of Parliament. The only sum in Scotland available for the improvement or extension of piers and harbours was a sum of £3,000 a year which forms part of the annual grant to the Fishery Board. That sum, which had now been paid for a long series of years, had been applied with great advantage in the construction of piers and harbours for fishing boats at different points on the coast of Scotland. He had no doubt of the advantage which would arise if the works which were said to be necessary could be carried out on the east and north-east coasts of Scotland, and also in other parts of Scotland both upon the east and west coasts. He was quite aware that in 1857 the Commissioners re-commended that a further grant of £3,000 a year should be allowed for a limited period; but he must confess that, taking into consideration the scale on which these fishery harbours were now being erected, he did not think that a grant of even double that sum would be adequate for the purpose. It was estimated that the harbour in which his hon. Friend (Mr. Duff) felt specially interested would cost £33,000. [Mr. R. W. DUFF: £22,000.]
 921
 MR. CORRY  said, he was rejoiced to find that reflection had brought conviction to the Admiralty as to the necessity of extending the accommodation in our dockyards. Three years ago when he proposed an expenditure of £1,500,000 in the Channel Dockyards for works necessary to the accommodation of the modern fleet of this country his noble Friend the Secretary of the Admiralty treated his proposal almost with derision. On that occasion his noble Friend said that he (Mr. Corry) was a great advocate for brick and mortar; that his time at the Admiralty was looked on as the golden age, when he was the Palladio of that establishment; that he used to go down to the Board and propose gigantic works; that in going round the yards, if a person asked who constructed this or that great work, the answer was sure to be "Mr. Corry;" and the noble Lord concluded by asking him to sit down contented and not to alarm the House by statements such as he had made, because on a calm review there was no cause for alarm as to any evil results in time of war from a want of accommodation in the dockyards. But I his moderate proposal was now very much exceeded; for, assuming that the works now proposed were carried out in the most economical way—that was to say, partly by contract, and partly by convict labour—the estimated cost was £4,600,000; and the Estimate would be increased to £6,000,000 if the works were carried out in the manner and with the expedition which he thought ought to be used. He did not taunt his noble Friend with the gigantic character of these works, which threw those that he had suggested completely into the shade—on the contrary, he freely admitted that though the Estimate of his noble Friend was much larger than his (Mr. Corry's), it did not go beyond the necessities of the case. The plans proposed for works at Portsmouth, at Chatham, at Cork, and at Malta seemed on the whole to be good, and he would give them his cordial support. But though he was satisfied on the whole with the designs, he was not equally satisfied with the mode in which it was proposed to provide the means for executing them. In proposing the Navy Estimates the noble Lord said—
 "The last paragraph of their Report is of such great importance that I must particularly refer to it, because it bears strongly upon the proposal that I am about to make. The Committee there state—'The Committee, therefore, having duo regard to economy, no less than to the pressing necessities of the service, are of opinion that the
 923 "If the House will agree to that principle, we can, I believe, by entering into a contract for the construction of the works at a given sum per annum, get the work done at a considerable diminution of cost and within a much shorter period of time." 924 925 "I hold it to be absolutely necessary for the safety of the country that these recommendations should substantially be carried into effect. Now there are two modes of doing this—you may either vote annually such a portion of the annual income of the country as the country would like to spend on a matter of this kind, and by so doing defer for perhaps eighteen or twenty years the accomplishment of these defences; or you may take that course which it will be my duty to recommend, and endeavour to complete them at the earliest possible period, without, at the same time, laying upon the country a larger annual burden than would be incurred if you prosecuted those works more slowly. I mean you may by raising by terminable annuities to run for thirty years a sum that will be sufficient in the course of three or four years to complete those works, get within a short period the security you require. … My opinion is that if these works are necessary—and I think common sense shows you that they are necessary—if they are necessary they are necessary as soon as we can get them, they are necessary for time present, and it would be folly to postpone for eighteen or twenty years the completion of defences against dangers which I hope may not arise; but dangers which we may contemplate as possible, and which, if possible, may be possible in the course of a comparatively short space of time."—[3  Hansard, 926
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  thought the Secretary for the Admiralty could
 927
 MR. MURPHY  saw no reason why the works at Cork should not be completed within the space of three years.
 MR. COWPER  said, he owed an apology to the Committee for not being present on the former occasion; but he could not understand why his presence now should be a reason for not going on with the Vote.
 MR. COWPER  said, that Mr. Pennethorne received a salary of £1,500 a year for his services as Surveyor, and as adviser of the Office on architectural questions. The arrangement under which the services of Mr. Pennethorne were secured to the public was economical; the professional fees for the work performed by that gentleman would have amounted in some years to a larger sum than his salary. The extensive purchases of land on the site of the new Foreign Office and of the land between Bridge Street and New Palace Yard, had been conducted by that gentleman, upon whom had also devolved a great deal of business connected with Battersea Park and other metropolitan improvements. It was necessary that there should be some professional man permanently connected with the department to whom application could be made for advice, and Mr. Pennethorne was a very able man, of great experience. The hon. Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn) had spoken of the largeness of the total payments; but in reality the office was undermanned, and the persons employed had more business devolved upon them than they ought to have if they were more numerous. What was required of the surveyor of works, was not too highly paid by the £1,000 a year given to him as salary.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the agreement with Mr. Pennethorne was that he should give his services to the Board as acting surveyor and consulting architect; but when he was employed to furnish designs, or act as an architect in erecting new buildings, then he would receive his 5 per cent like other architects. In former days the Office of Works had three architects, who received a percentage—3 per cent, he believed—for their labours, and the Office was bound to employ those architects in every work which was erected. It was, however, thought that it would be an immense advantage that the Office should
 945
 MR. COWPER  observed that Mr. Pennethorne received £1,500 for his services as surveyor in valuing and purchasing property required for public and Government purposes, and the other payments were for services as architect in designing and superintending new buildings.
 MR. COWPER  replied that the building in Downing Street was being erected by Mr. Scott. When important works wore to be executed by Votes of that House, it was thought undesirable that Mr. Pennethorne or any other gentleman should be necessarily employed. It was deemed better to appeal to the profession at large, and, after competition, to select the best man.
 MR. COWPER  explained that Mr. Pennethorne was the surveyor who surveyed and negotiated the purchase of property that might be required, and Mr. Hunt was consulting surveyor in the office, giving his advice on matters referred to him.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the political head of the Department required a professional man like Mr. Hunt to give him his advice on matters coming within his special knowledge and experience.
 MR. COWPER  said, that as the building was intended for the Natural History collections of the British Museum, it was thought right to give the officers of the Museum an opportunity of considering the plans. Accordingly, Captain Fowke's plans were sent to the Trustees at the end of last year. They were anxious to give them full consideration, and they had only lately expressed an opinion, which was not however final, as they had referred the plans to a sub-Committee. When the Trustees had made up their minds the Government would resume its action.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Office of Works was concerned in the scheme, because a portion of the Park was proposed to be taken. It was true that there was some difference between the Commissioner of Woods and himself as to the propriety of making the street; but no expense was caused thereby to either Department. The best and most costly plan would be the widening of Park Lane, but the work must be undertaken by the Metropolitan Board of Works, and he doubted whether the
 947
 MR. COWPER  said, it was the intention of the Government to make a proposal, but he thought it better not to go now into the question what that proposal might be. He could assure the hon. Gentleman that no stop had been taken which would in the slightest degree prevent full and ample consideration of the subject, and nothing would be brought before the House without ample notice.
 MR. CORRY  said, the question had
 950
 MR. A. F. EGERTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill this Session to make Regulations with a view to prevent Accidents by the Explosion of Gunpowder?
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, before he could concur in the expression of satisfaction at what had been done at Portsmouth, he would like to know whether the plan of Sir William Martin, marked H, was laid before the Admiralty before they came to their decision? His own opinion was that that plan was the best, as it gave a very large wharfage accommodation in the smallest space.
 MR. LYGON  said, he was reluctant to take part in the debate, but as the Chancellor of the Exchequer had contradicted his right hon. Friend be would refer him to  Hansard,
 MR. LYGON  asked what guarantee the contractors for the works scheduled in this Bill would have that the Government would propose a Vote in the Estimates to pay them for their contract. The sum for payment for the conveyances of the mails between Dover and Calais under the present arrangement had never been proposed in Committee of Supply.
 MR. LYGON , as one of the Members of the Board of Admiralty who had signed the Churchward contract, declared that he had never seen any reason to regret that step, and he denied that the House of Commons had ever pronounced a condemnation of that contract.
 MR. LYGON  said, the right hon. Gentleman knew that no person could propose
 952
 MR. LYGON  again declared that no Vote was ever proposed. This was the only mode in which the question could be raised, and he challenged the right hon. Gentleman to raise it by proposing a Vote.
 MR. LYGON  asked, whether some arrangement could not be come to by which the legal expenses of the two Departments of Works and Woods should not be swollen by their Parliamentary contests. Hon. Members would remember how the two Departments contended with each other about the Thames Embankment. It was for the responsible Advisers of the Crown to settle the squabbles of these two Departments.
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he should have had no fault to find, had the Commander-in-Chief refused to permit Colonel Dawkins to take command upon private information only; but he felt bound to protest against the tribunal before which that gallant officer had been tried, and against the trumpery charges brought against him. The Commander-in-Chief was bound to make inquiries to satisfy himself that the officers commanding Colonel Dawkins had done their duty.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that the proposal of the Admiralty, which would he laid upon the table of the House, would give full information upon all these matters. He would take that opportunity of giving notice that it was his intention to move for leave to introduce three Bills—one for making better provision with respect to the wills of deceased Seamen and Marines; the second, for the better disposal of the effects of deceased Seamen under the control of the Admiralty; and the third, for the regulation of the Pay and Pensions in the Royal Navy.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not then state, as the subject was a very difficult one; but he was anxious to produce it at the earliest possible moment.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that no information had been received at the Admiralty of the loss of Her Majesty's schooner  Eclipse,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in replying to the observations which had been made in the course of the discussion, said, an idea appeared to prevail among hon. Members, especially on the other side of the House, that the Admiralty would have been glad to have proposed larger estimates had not objections to their doing so been raised by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The truth, however, was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had raised no difficulty with regard to the proposed expenditure which had been laid before him, and that the Admiralty Estimates had been submitted to the House in their integrity. Some hon. Members, he might add, seemed to think that the proposed works ought to be carried out at once, and without any reference to cost; and his hon. Friend the Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird) talked of entering into a contract for the purpose, forgetting that the Admiralty had in the first instance to prosecute the work of reclamation of ground from under the sea, which it was necessary to shut out before the masonry could be proceeded with. That tidal work it was, of course, impossible to prosecute continuously, whatever the amount of money voted might be. A large sum, it would be seen, was taken for Portsmouth, while there was a considerable increase for Chatham over the Vote of last year, because the works had arrived at a stage when they could be carried on at all tides. He thought he might reasonably express his satisfaction that Ireland was a participator in the advantages of the proposed schemes. When the preliminary works at Cork were completed by convict labour there was nothing to prevent Government from entering into contracts and proceeding with vigour. In reply to his hon. Friend the Member for Greenwich (Mr. Alderman Salomons), he might observe that the Government had come to the conclusion that it was not desirable that Pembroke dockyard should be shut up; while their intention with respect to Woolwich, and he might add Sheerness, was that when ample
 940
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, they had not yet gone the length of considering to whom the ground would belong when the Government gave up the yards.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he
 942
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the security for the contractors would be that the engagements had received the sanction of Parliament.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  observed that the circumstances of the case of the fortifications and those of the dockyards were quite different. In the former case a new construction was necessary; in the latter only an extension was required.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Malta dock was not included in the Bill, because an annual Vote of a comparatively small sum would be sufficient for the works there.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the misstatements contained in the Report of Inspector C. Graham, on the National School of Coote Street, Ireland, published in the Return laid upon the table of this House on 20th June, 1864; and whether he will have any objection to lay upon the table of the House copies of the letter of the Commissioners of National Education to the Rev. James Dunne, withdrawing these misstatements, dated 1st April, 1865, and of the letter of the Rev. James Dunne to the Commissioners, dated 6th April, 1865?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to know whether there would be any objection to lay the correspondence on the table?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  remarked, that the attendance of Members on these occasions seemed to be in an inverse ratio to the largeness of the Vote to be proposed. He had the same fault to find with this Estimate as with many others—that a variety of items involving a large expenditure were all lumped together; and then followed a lot of minute sums, as if to show how careful the Department was about trifles. He held that there was economy in executing these great works as speedily as possible when once they had been decided upon; and now that we were in a state of transition as regarded our ships and other defences, the best means of providing against increased Estimates in future was to construct our docks in as scientific a manner as possible, so as to meet any changes that were likely to arise.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thought the proceeding was somewhat unfair. The First Commissioner of Works was absent when these Estimates were last before the House.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked if these yards were shut up whether claims to the ground would not be put in by the Woods and Forests—the property belonging to the Crown?
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  asked, whether Mr. Pennethorne, who received £1,500 yearly as the salaried architect and surveyor of the Board, received a further sum of £800 in another capacity. He also wished to know whether it was
 944
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thought that what Mr. Pennethorne did for his £1,500 a year had not been satisfactorily explained. The right hon. Gentleman said that he acted as surveyor; but he perceived by the Estimates that there was a surveyor of works at £1,000 a year, and also an assistant-surveyor at £800 a year. The legal charges connected with the Board of Works amounted to no less than £4,000 a year.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  protested against the Chancellor of the Exchequer saying that Parliament in its wisdom had thought proper to do so and so, when the fact was that they had been beguiled into doing so by the Government. Formerly the Offices of Woods and Forests and of Works were one and the same, and represented the interests both of the Crown and the public. But now the Crown lands were no longer considered to be held for the benefit of the public. He should take an opportunity of showing that additional expense had been thrown upon the public by the separation of the Departments.
 MR. NEATE  said, he was the Member who stood first on the paper, and he was prepared to yield to what seemed to be the wish of the House upon the matter.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  rose to move an Address for certain papers relating to the case of Colonel Dawkins. In the first place, he desired to express his obligation to the noble Lord for asking, and to the hon. Members who had consented to waive their precedence on the notice paper in order to afford him the opportunity of at once bringing the case of Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins under the notice of the House. It was a request he should not himself have ventured to make, and he had known nothing about the noble Lord's intention to make that appeal in his favour till the Secretary for the Treasury came and informed him that it was the noble Lord's intention to do so. As to the question which he was about to again bring under the notice of the House, he admitted that, as a general rule, it was not desirable to bring the discipline of the army before the House of Commons as a tribunal. The same might be said in respect of judgments in criminal courts; but extreme cases justified a departure from a general principle, and he contended that as the Imperial Parliament was, in fact, the highest appellate jurisdiction in this country, it was not expedient, where a proper and sufficient occasion arose, that that power should remain unexercised. In discussing the present question he must be allowed to observe that, so far as he knew, there was no precedent for an officer being put on half-pay against his own remonstrance, and against his refusal to make any election between going on half-pay and selling out, without a
 881 "That although the recent consolidation of the different Departments of Ordnance, Commissariat, and Secretary at War has, to a certain extent, improved the general administration of military affairs, a divided responsibility still exists, and that in order to promote greater efficiency the Departments of the Horse Guards and War Office should be placed under the control of one responsible Minister."—[3  Hansard, "The Secretary of State was responsible for everything done by the Commander-in-Chief—the Commander-in-Chief was, in fact, his subordinate officer. He (Mr. Sidney Herbert) was not making this assertion without book. When Viscount Hardinge was examined before the Sebastopol Committee, he said 'The Secretary of State's authority is supreme—he overrides me in every
 882 Ibid. "Hon. Gentlemen spoke of the Commander-in-Chief as an irresponsible officer. He was irresponsible in so far as he was not represented by any person in that House; but he (Viscount Palmerston) could not constitutionally admit that any person who gave advice to the Crown upon the public service was an irresponsible officer. The truth was that the Cabinet—the Ministry of the day—were the parties who were responsible for everything that was done in any Department of the State; and though they might not and ought not to interfere in the daily and ordinary administration of the office of the Commander-in-Chief, yet, on any material points affecting the interests of the army, there would always be previous communication between the Commander-in-Chief and the responsible advisers of the Crown; and, in case of differences, their opinion, if deliberately, fully, and firmly expressed, was sure to prevail."[ Ibid. "There has I believe been no instance lately (of the exercise of the veto of promotion)?—No, not in my time. Nor in Lord Hardinge's time?—No, I think not. In the present state of public feeling your Royal Highness thinks that that power could not be exercised?—I think it would be extremely difficult to exercise it now. If the inspection returns were satisfactorily made, there would be no difficulty in your Royal Highnes's knowing whether an officer ought to be stopped in his promotion or not?—I see no difficulty whatever; but, as I said before, it must be backed by public opinion, otherwise, no man, in my opinion, could exercise that power." 883 884 "I received your note the day before yesterday, and the servant who brought it was distinctly informed that there was no answer to it." 885 "Dear—,—A point which has arisen in the present Court of Inquiry renders it necessary that I should ask you to be so good as to inform me whether I have ever quarrelled with you."
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I did not make up my mind till the afternoon of that day.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : I beg the noble Lord's pardon. I never used the word, nor did I suggest it.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, it was very natural for his constituents to wish to know what was meant by being "shut up." Did the phrase mean disposed of for other purposes, or kept unappropriated?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  expressed a wish to know what determination had been arrived at by the Government in reference to the dockyards at Woolwich and Deptford?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  thought that considering the large portion of the river at Woolwich occupied by the yard, it would be almost a scandal to have it shut up in the way Deptford Dockyard had been. He should therefore be very much obliged to his noble Friend if he would state what was meant by being "shut up."
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the hon. Member for Salisbury (Mr. Marsh) spoke with authority on Australian subjects, because he spoke with the special knowledge of a personal residence in the colony; but he did not think there was any irreconcilable antagonism between the views of hon. Members who had addressed the House. The hon. Member for Salisbury had not said that there was any claim on the part of the colonists for that assistance from the Imperial Exchequer which the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley) so justly deprecated; but, at the same time, he showed the great advantages which, as a colonist, and as a Member of that House, he perceived in the existence of numerous communities scattered over many of the most interesting and fruitful parts of the world, consisting of those who sprang from our loins, carried our learning across the seas, reproduced our institutions, looked to the same fathers of literature, read our press, participated in the advantages of our postal system, and were, in fact, creating and maintaining communities of the same feeling and origin as ourselves in the most distant parts of the world. All must agree that advantages not merely material, but moral and political, were derived from the existence of those colonies, though these advantages could not be measured entirely by statistics. He had not understood the hon. Member for Manchester to discourage in any degree the maintentenance of the most intimate relation with our colonies, the cultivation of friendly feelings with them, or the rendering to them of the many inestimable services which the mother country always had it in her power to afford. But the hon. Member contended that in carrying with them English institutions they also carried with them the independent, honest spirit which was the first characteristic of Englishmen, which was the foundation of the power and glory of the Empire. It had been said that formerly we taxed the colonies, but that now the colonies taxed us and, no doubt, for many years it had been necessary to lay before Parliament Estimates which were really a tax upon the mother country, for the benefit of her colonies; but that principle had been settled long ago in a contrary sense, and he did not
 912 913 914
 MR. DOULTON  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Gentleman could state any time after which he would not not bring forward that Estimate?
 MR. DOULTON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will, before the House adjourns for the Whitsuntide holydays, lay upon the table of the House the Estimate for the New Museum of Natural History?
 MR. DOULTON  inquired the cause of the delay in laying before the Chancellor of the Exchequer the materials necessary for him to form an opinion in respect to the Estimate required for the new buildings at Kensington designed by Captain Fowke.
 MR. DOULTON  inquired whether Mr. Pennethorne bad anything to do with the Foreign Office.
 MR. BENTINCK  thought that the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman was very singular. If he had attended in the House, instead of spending his time more agreeably elsewhere, he would have beard the argument which had been used. He was glad to bear the right hon. Gentleman express his approval of plainness and simplicity of dealing, but nothing could be more plain and simple, or more calculated to let the public know what they were doing in such matters as these, than asking for a lump sum like this. As the right hon. Gentleman had quoted authorities on the Opposition side of the House on which he seemed to place great weight, perhaps be would refer to the speech of the noble Lord at the head of the Government in proposing a loan for the fortification scheme, and if he could answer these arguments be might make out a case against this Motion.
 MR. BENTINCK  thought if the works undertaken were necessary, the most economic and advisable mode of proceeding would be to complete them as soon as possible. He wanted an explicit answer to this short and simple question—if the Admiralty were not hampered by any financial considerations—if they were free to expend what money they thought necessary on these works would they not take a larger sum than they asked in these Estimates? The noble Lord (Lord Clarence Paget) said the Chancellor of the Exchequer had made no difficulty. Surely the noble Lord had addressed the right hon. Gentleman in peculiarly favourable circumstances, for he believed this was the first time when money was to be granted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not made any difficulty. His question was this, was it the opinion of the Government that it was not expedient to expend a larger sum for the completion of these works than they now proposed to do, assuming that they had the money at their command?
 MR. BENTINCK  admitted that there was great difficulty in satisfying everybody; but here the question was about satisfying the country, and he doubled whether even the able statement of his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) would succeed in doing that. The total Estimate for Chatham was £1,250,000, and the gross sum expended in three years was £130,000, or about £43,000 per annum. At Portsmouth the original Estimate was £1,500,000, the amount voted £7,500, and the sum to be taken this year £20,000, leaving a balance of more than £1,400,000. At Haulbowline the Estimate was £150,000, and the amount expended £5,000, leaving a balance of £145,000. Now, one of two things—either these docks and dockyards were indispensably necessary for the good of the country, or the whole proposal of the Go-
 937 938
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  asked, whether Mr. Pennethorne was paid extra as architect for the Record Office. [Mr. COWPER: Yes.] He then wished to know whether, if the Government nominated Mr. Pennethorne as architect for the new Law Courts, he would have extra pay for furnishing plans for them.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  asked
 948
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he had no objection to alter his Motion so as to make the reference to the Standing Orders Committee.
 MR. THOMPSON  said, he rose to move that the Special Report on Group 8 of Railway Bills be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. It was a matter of great importance, so far as the public business of the House was concerned, that the proceedings in reference to Railway Bills should be in accordance with the
 875
 MR. H. ROBERTSON  urged the necessity of hastening on the works as speedily as possible. The Government had undertaken the manufacture and repairs of ships; but until those works were completed they could not be in a position to carry out the repairs. Thus every year of delay brought a loss to the country, and he, therefore, thoroughly concurred in the remarks of the hon. Member for Birkenhead. The plans of the works at Portsmouth were well adapted to the wants of the case; but he would have wished that the Government had taken more advantage of the talent of the country in procuring the plans. With-
 939
 MR. H. ROBERTSON  called attention to the proposed expenditure on the new dock at Malta. There was "an additional Estimate for premium to contractor for earlier completion of works" at the Marsa; but in what time would that secure their completion? Much would depend on their getting possession of the French Creek, all their operations with regard to which appeared to be hampered by their engagements with the authorities at Malta. For the construction of the dock at the French Creek only £8,000 was asked this year, although the total Estimate was stated in the Votes at £120,000. The plan of Captain Clarke, which had been adopted, was far inferior to that of Mr. M'Clean, and it would cost more money and take more time to execute, owing to the rock which had to be excavated. Mr. M'Clean's plan would give them two docks and a large spacious open quay at a cost of £100,000, or double the accommodation to be obtained for a much greater outlay under Captain Clarke's plan. The Government were attempting to gain time and save money when, in fact, the result would be just the opposite. The item of £8,000 ought to be deferred until they had a plan of how the French Creek should be treated as a whole instead of a part.
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped the Committee would be satisfied with the decision at
 943
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was satisfactory to the Government, and to the professional officers who had given their utmost attention to the subject now before the House, to find that their exertions had met with the general approval of the House. It was natural that in the early part of the Session hon. Gentlemen should criticize the intentions of Government with reference to the dockyards, as at that time no papers explanatory of the course which Government intended to adopt had been laid upon the table. Most of these hon. Members had subsequently expressed their satisfaction; but notwithstanding that every possible information upon the subject had since been given, a few hon. Members on both sides of the House had that evening raised objections of the most opposite character to the propositions of Government, and therefore he proposed to explain the plan which it was intended to carry into execution. In the first place, remarks had been made upon the smallness of the Vote taken for this year for the works at Portsmouth, Chatham, and other places. Now, the papers relating to the proposed extension of basin and dock accommodation in the Royal dockyards laid upon the table on the 27th of April last show distinctly the course which Government propose to pursue. It appeared from the memorandum of the Director of Works that assuming the time required for the execution of the proposed works to be fifteen years under the combined system of civil and convict labour, the annual liability would be about £310,000; but that assuming Parliament should have so approved the scheme in its entirety as to justify the Government in incurring a larger charge in the event of there being a necessity for expediting the execution of the works £500,000 per annum might be expended. In answer to that memorandum the Secretary of the Admiralty sent the following reply:—
 933 "My Lords having had under their consideration your memorandum of the 28th ultimo, No. 83, in reference to the Report of the Select Committee on Dockyards, desire me to inform you that they approve generally of your submissions; but in bringing forward detailed proposals for the great extensions contemplated, you should, without increasing the aggregate cost, so arrange that the contracts for the more essential portions of the works urgently required for the public service, should be executed as speedily as may be consistent with efficient construction; while the employment of convict labour should be spread over the longer period contemplated, and the less important parts of the works should be executed after the completion of the first contracts." 934 935 pari passu 936
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether that portion of the Act 5th  Geo. 915 "To apply a sum not exceeding five hundred pounds in any one year in providing materials for the repairs of boats of poor fishermen at such ports and places where quays and piers are or shall be built."
 MR. LAIRD  quite agreed with the right hon. Member for Tyrone (Mr. Corry) as to the importance of completing works rapidly, but he found on looking into the Estimates that the completion of some of them would require fifteen or twenty years. The Report of the Inspector of Works pointed out the disadvantage of the system which had hitherto been pursued, and snowed that out of an expenditure of £550,000 per annum about £250,000 per annum was virtually thrown away, because it had been expended in alterations which had not proved efficient. He therefore thought
 928 929
 MR. LAIRD  thought that after the ample discussion which the subject of the Malta Dock had undergone in that House, it was not desirable that the battle should be fought over again; and he trusted the Committee would not interfere with the course now proposed to be taken by the Government in that matter.
 MR. LAIRD , said, he should probably be able to answer the question which the hon. Gentleman had purposed asking the hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto), if he had been present, as he himself had had occasion to contract for the construction of extensive graving-docks and other works. He had always made it a part of the contract that the works should be completed at the earliest possible moment, because he found that until they were completed he could get no return from them. He believed, too, that such a course would be the proper one for the Government to pursue. The dockyards were essential to the interests of the country, and the money which was required should be raised upon the same principle as that adopted in the case of the fortifications, which could not be compared with our dockyards in point of utility. He felt convinced that the hon. Member for Finsbury, if he were present, would bear him out in saying that it was much better that the works at Chatham, Portsmouth, and Keyham, should be completed in the most rapid manner possible, instead of being subject to the dilatory course proposed by the Government. Looking at the works that were to be carried out, he thought a million a year could be spent with advantage; and, moreover, if they would set about the completion of the works with spirit, they would save the expense of the modifications which succeeding Administrations were sure to suggest. Before sitting down he wished to know from the Government when they intended carrying out their proposed sale of dockyards. The question was an important one, because it involved a large annual saving of £40,000 to the country, and he hoped, therefore, that he should receive a satisfactory answer.
 MR. LAIRD  thought the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone) was rather hard upon the Government. As a Member of the Committee that hon. Member had joined in the recommendation that certain dockyards should be sold, the sale of which would go towards providing the means of executing additional works. But, because the Government were about to engage in those additional works, the hon. Member now turned round and said they should not sell those dockyards.
 MR. MAGUIRE  congratulated the Government on having at length realized the promise made to Ireland to expend some of the public money upon the construction of harbours and docks there. He believed that in making the docks at Cork the Government would be really carrying out a work of great national importance and one absolutely necessary for the public service. Six years was the period proposed for the building of a dock at Cork. When the work was absolutely necessary, why should it not be completed in three years instead of six? A ship could enter Cork harbour at any state of the tide—a fact that could not be stated in regard to many of the other docks of the United Kingdom. He knew that the public service had been often sacrificed for the want of proper dock accommodation at Cork. On one occasion a ship full of troops, having met with an accident to her machinery, was obliged to put into Cork harbour. The vessel, however, after landing the troops, was obliged to go to Portsmouth for repairs, by which a delay of several weeks was incurred, and that at a time when the troops were wanted in a great emergency at another place. There was no want of private and individual energy in Cork. The Messrs. Brown had docks and yards of great dimensions. What was wanted was a Government yard. It was of the utmost importance that such dock be obtained, and that at the earliest possible period. Only £150,000 was required for that purpose—a very small sum, when it was considered how much speed, and consequent saving of coals, would arise from the removal of vegetable accretions from the ships' bottoms. There was no reason why all that was wanted should not be constructed in three years, as well as in six. He thanked the Government for having turned over a
 932
 MR. MARSH , in rising to call the attention of the House to the protection of our Colonies, and the advantages we derive from them, said, the position he intended to take up was that our colonial system was the best and cheapest method that could be devised for the protection of our enormous commerce, and that without it we should require depots for coal and garrisons all over the world, as, in fact, was now the case in those seas where we had no colonies. It appeared from a blue-book he held in his hand, coming down to the year 1862, that the amount of our import and export trade including the regis-
 906 907 908 909
 MR. MARSH  said, he stood next on the paper with a Motion on the subject of the protection of our Colonies, and he would also give way to what appeared to be the wish of the House; although he believed that the question to which he had to direct their attention was a much more important one than any relating to Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins and although he even thought that the latter subject ought not to be discussed at all in that House, or, that if it were to be discussed at all, it ought not to be discussed at the present time.
 MR. BLACKBURN  complained that he and other hon. Members had been taken by surprise. He was not aware they were going into another class of Estimates at that time of night.
 MR. BLACKBURN  asked for some explanation of the Vote, the aggregate amount of which for the mere inspection of public buildings, parks, &c., seemed to be excessive. There were no less than forty clerks in the Department, costing £11,500 a year.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that the Commissioner of Woods took one view about the proposed road between Piccadilly and Park Lane, and the Commissioner of Works another.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, be had no objection to the Board giving a good surveyor £1,000 a year, but why was it necessary to spend £5,000 a year in assistants? The Board bad forty-three clerks, which seemed to argue an incredible quantity of writing.
 MR. R. W. DUFF : Sir, I rise for the purpose of asking the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether, in consequence of the recent great loss of life among the Fishermen while pursuing their trade on the east coast of Scotland, it is the intention of the Lords of the Treasury to give effect to the Report addressed to them by Special Commissioners in February, 1857, recommending that an additional sum be granted for the construction of
 916 917 918 "What proportion is expended in Scotland in proportion to the sum raised in the shape of taxation? I doubt whether one-fourth of the revenue derived from the country is spent within its borders."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not lay upon the table any Estimate upon that subject until he should receive from his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works intelligence to the effect that he and the Trustees of the Museum had come to some understanding with respect to the land on which the building was to be erected. The last statement that had reached him from
 877
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I can only say, in general terms, that the last thing the Government would do would be to submit an Estimate at any period when the House could not give it a full and fair consideration.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not aware of any opposition between the Offices of Woods and Works that entailed expense. There was a question in regard to the Thames Embankment between the Woods and Forests on the one hand and the tenants of the Crown on the other, and the latter thought it worth their while to fall back upon an opinion given by the Commissioner of Crown Estates. It was, however, a mistake to suppose that there was any conflict in law.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  hoped that the Committee would not consent to such an ignominious expedient for meeting the expenses of the country. He regretted very much that it bad been found possible for individual Members of the House to propose Motions which enabled the House to escape its responsibilities by the expedient of hiding from the public what it was about. If there was one thing which all of them ought to advocate it was plainness and simplicity in their proceedings. In certain instances be did not deny that certain expenses might be met by an addition to the debt of the country. This was done in the case of the abolition of the slave trade; and in 1860, when the country had to provide for some £4,000,000 or £5,000,000 of war expenditure, Parliament thought fit after careful consideration to provide for the expenses of the fortifications by an addition to the debt of the country. He remembered well that at that time the hon. and gallant Member proposed that they should take—say £20,000,000, and provide for the expenses of harbours of refuge. [Sir JAMES ELPHINSTONE: Docks I said.] Such a proposal as this ought to be resisted by every man who adhered to the principle that the annual expenditure ought to be met out of the income of the year. The Motion after all was a futile Motion. If it had the slightest chance of being carried the bench opposite would not have been so empty, or rather it would not have been so thinly occupied. Certainly the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) would have been there to object to it, and by inference the right hon. Member for Bucks would have been there also to support the great financial authority of the other side. Armed, therefore, with this cumulative authority, he appealed to the Committee not to sanction this ill-considered Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite as true that the speech just delivered by the hon. Baronet had cost the public a certain sum of money. Every hour of the sitting of that House involved expense in the shape of the labour of officers, wear and tear of furniture, and light; and in that sense only was there any difference in the expense which arose between the Office of Works and the Office of Woods. Then the hon. Baronet laid down the proposition that if the Commissioner of Woods and Works had been the same person, no difference would have arisen. That was undoubtedly true. Twenty years ago that was the case; but Parliament was not satisfied with the state of things, and an Act was passed, the object of which was to give an independent voice to those officers who were placed in the immediate control of the Crown Estates. Occasionally, the Commissioner of Works, viewing a question from one point, formed a different estimate from that of the Commissioner of Woods, who looked at it from another point of view, but the general result had been beneficial. Parliament had a fuller and more perfect bearing of what was to be said upon a question in reference to the several interests involved, and there was no additional expense to the State.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the real question was, whether the House was disposed to go on with business?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was a mistake on the
 951
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the last subject to which the hon. Gentleman opposite ought to call attention was the Churchward contract. Surely after the Report of the Committee and the ratification of that Report by the House of Commons, the Government would not have been justified in proposing any Vote for the continuance of that contract.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he found he had understated the case, because he was informed that the subject was discussed in Committee of Supply, and afterwards upon the bringing up of the Report the proposition was made to omit certain words which raised the question.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if the hon. Gentleman was dissatisfied with the decision of the House, he could at any time move a Resolution on the subject, and he was prepared to debate the question with him.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether, looking to the changed aspect of affairs in America, Her Majesty's Government, either separately or in conjunction with the Government of the United States, will consider the propriety of sending a squadron to the coast of Cuba, for the purpose of preventing the importation of slaves into that island, and thereby effectually putting an end to the African Slave Trade?
 MR. COX  recommended that the yard at Woolwich should be handed over to the Woods and Forests, who would be able to dispose of it for a large price, part of which might be applied to the purpose of preserving open spaces for the public.
 MR. COX  said, that it appeared that Mr. Pennethorne had his £1,500 a year when he had nothing to do, and when he had something to do he then took his 5 percent.
 MR. COX  asked what the man did who received £1,000 a year.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, notice was distinctly given that the Civil Service Estimates would be taken.
 MR. CAIRD  said, there was a distinction to be drawn in the case of the fishing harbours of which the right hon. Gentleman was perhaps not aware—namely, that in consequence of the change which had taken place in the modes of sea fishing all over the coast of Great Britain a larger description of vessel was now used than was formerly found necessary. The truth was, however, that in most of the fishery harbours on the coast of Scotland the fishermen had very little means at their disposal for making improvements, and they were precluded from adopting that improved system of fishing which is found requisite for deep-sea fishing, because they had not the power of leaving the shallow harbours which nature had provided for them. He had no doubt that a great increase in the supply of fish, not only upon this coast alone, but upon the west coast—and, indeed, all over the kingdom—would be the result, if under proper and necessary precautions money could be advanced for the purpose of improving the fishery harbours.
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he regarded this as a question which deserved the careful consideration of the Government. The fishermen upon the coasts of Scotland were exposed, from the nature of the tempests which occurred there, to great and unusual dangers, from which the fishermen of other parts of the coast of Great Britain were exempt. The storms which constantly arise on the east and north-east coasts of Scotland were of such a character that when the fishermen were engaged in fishing upon banks, perhaps forty miles from land, a sea would arise which threatened to swamp them before, with such boats as they had, they could reach the very imperfect harbours in which they were obliged to take refuge. He believed that Admiral Fitzroy had done a great deal for these men by the introduction of his meteorological system. Many of the prejudices which formerly surrounded this class of men had been overcome, and they now paid more attention to the barometers and to the various scientific apparatus for foretelling storms which were placed in conspicuous positions along the coast. From the coast to which his hon.
 919
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he was glad to find his hon. Friend (Sir Frederic Smith) taking an active part in the discussion of the Estimates, for too many of the hon. Members dealt in generalities about keeping down the public expenditure, and afterwards absented themselves from the House when the Estimates were under consideration. So far as the port which he represented was concerned, the officers there were thoroughly satisfied with the plans which had been brought before the House. With regard, however, to the mode in which the works were to be carried out, and the manner in which they were to be paid for, he differed from the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty. About three years ago the noble Viscount at the head of the Government brought forward a proposition to expend a large sum of money upon fortifications. Well, those fortifications were intended in a great measure to protect the dockyards. In
 930 931
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, he wanted to know whether the Admiralty was in communication with the War Office, in order to have the ground required at Portsmouth Dockyard squared off, there being at present only 600 feet available from the head of the docks, while there was no room whatever for naval barracks. If the means of military defence bad been condemned by the War Office, a great
 941
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, that in 1863 an opinion had been expressed by the noble Lord at the head of the Government, when introducing the fortification scheme, which would be perfectly applicable in support of the Motion which he was about to make. That opinion had been already read in the House that night, and he would therefore content himself at that late hour with moving, that in the opinion of this House the expense of the contracts for Dockyard Extensions to be authorized by this Bill would best be defrayed by Terminable Annuities, as in the case of the Fortifications, under the Act 26 &c 27  Vict.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government has received from the Government of the United States any formal and official demand for compensation to American subjects for losses sustained by the  Alabama
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he wished to ask, when the scheme with respect to the Masters would be laid before the House?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he should prefer communicating with the authorities in Ireland before giving any pledge.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, he
 876
 MR. BAZLEY  said, the hon. Member had made a most specious statement, advocating protection for our colonies and countenancing a system of extravagance which he hoped the Government would not be prepared to sanction. He had been trying to show that the colonies were of vital importance to the commercial interests of the country; but he would like to know, in the presence of the fact that, while the world at large took £110,000,000 of our exports, and the colonists only £50,000,000, which were the best customers? He was not, however, on that account prepared to say that we ought to draw from our colonies all reasonable support, but he was opposed to anything like extravagant expenditure in their support. With respect to the cost attending the transactions, it was relatively much greater with the colonies than with the rest of the civilized world. He granted that, to some extent, they did receive a supply of raw materials from the colonies, because merchants here did not send out their goods without expecting to receive some return. What defence did we need for the £8,200,760
 910 911
 SIR THOMAS WINNINGTON  said, as a Member of the Committee, he would not offer any objection to the Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that having served on the Thames Embankment Committee, he could assure the Chancellor of the Exchequer that a fierce war was waged between the two Departments. The Commissioner of Woods thought that the Crown property was damaged by the proceedings of the Commissioner of Works. What additional expense was caused by this fierce contest he did not know, but it occupied the Committee for a very considerable period, and he could not but think that disputes of this kind ought to be avoided. The matter had Deen argued by counsel, and considerable expense and loss of time had been incurred. He quite agreed that there should be a thoroughly good legal authority in the office of the Commissioner of Works to consult, and also that there should be a thoroughly competent architect. But for new works why should he not have recourse to the architects and surveyors who were to be found in such abundance in the metropolis? He was confident that if that plan were adopted a saving of expense would be effected in the Department.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, a correspondence has been going on for some time—two years I think—between the Government of the United States and Her Majesty's Government an the subject of the prizes taken by the  Alabama
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, some time ago Her Majesty's Government invited the Government of the United States to co-operate with them on the coast of Africa by sending out a squadron for the purpose of preventing the slave trade from being carried on. The American Government professed their perfect willingness to co-operate, but a difficulty arose in regard to the regulations then subsisting with respect to our neutral position on the one hand, and the admission of belligerent ships of war into our ports on the other. That difficulty could not be well overcome
 878
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Among other Motions to be made this evening on going into Supply is a Motion by the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) with respect to the case of Colonel Dawkins. I think that after the discussions which have already taken place on that case it would be expedient, if possible, to give the hon. Member's Motion precedence of the other Motions on going into Supply. There are, I think, four Notices on the paper which precede that of the hon. Member for Devizes. Among them is one of a Motion relating to the Colonies, a subject which is likely to lead to a long discussion. If it be taken first it will probably throw the discussion on the case of Colonel Dawkins back to a late hour, and that, I think, would not be desirable. I would ask, therefore, the hon. Members who have precedence of the hon. Member for Devizes to postpone their Notices till after his; and I hope that they will still have an op-
 880
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he should oppose the Motion. The Bill contained very useful clauses, and was more in the nature of a Public than a Private Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  stated, as Chairman of the Committee, that two important questions arose in considering this Bill; the first was a claim for a Government Grant, which the Committee were unanimous in refusing; the next was the introduction of clauses such as were contained in the Prison Bill for the religious
 976
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he hoped the House would not agree to the Motion, as the Bill contained some very useful clauses, and it was a desirable measure to pass into law, notwithstanding the promoters had withdrawn their support. He was sure the objection taken by the Middlesex magistrates to the admission of Chaplains of various denominations for the purpose of giving religious instruction to the children was one which would not meet with the concurrence of the House.
 MR. J. J. POWELL  said, he thanked the right hon. Baronet opposite for having raised a discussion of the Bill on its second reading, because a most inconvenient practice prevailed of reserving such discussions until the Motion for going into Committee, by which course important discussions were often evaded. The observations which he wished to make had reference to that part of the Bill which provided how the charities of the Hospital were to be expended. He did not deny that officers were seamen, but he asked whether the word seaman, as used in the charters, or in any Act relating to the Hospital, was ever intended to include officers? No doubt, Lord Nelson and Lord Cochrane were seamen, but no one could suppose that it was ever intended to benefit them by that
 1008
 MR. HOWARD  said, he could confirm the remarks of the hon. Member for South Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) as to the bad condition of the parishes from which the Greenwich Hospital estate derived its revenues. In Alston, a parish of more than 30,000 acres, and with 6,000 people, chiefly employed in lead mining, only
 1010
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, that in 1846 the late Sir Robert Peel, with that spirit of liberality and generosity which characterized his conduct with reference to Ireland, and which had in a great measure been inherited by the right hon. Baronet who bore his name, had introduced a Bill on this subject, which was followed by another in 1848, and another in 1857. The Devon Commission of 1844 recommended that the Irish constabulary should be treated as a national force, and thrown upon the Consolidated Fund. If the reasons advanced by the Commission were good in that year for such a course, they were doubly so at the present time. He also complained of the unfair manner in which the force was distributed in the different counties, and especially in Lei-trim, where the proportion was inadequate to the wants of the county. Various modifications had been made, the operation of which had not been beneficial. Since the Irish constabulary had been raised the Government had been able to reduce the number of troops in Ireland from 21,251 in 1844 to very little more than half that force. He maintained that this ought to be treated as a national question. The police, besides enabling the Government to reduce the military force, were also discharging the duties of the revenue police, a force altogether disbanded, thus saving the nation a large annual payment. Believing, as he did, that the Government ought to pay for the maintenance of a force which discharged so many important State duties, he had no hesitation in moving that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee.
 MR. BRADY  seconded the Motion, and said that great injustice had been done under the Bill of 1857. He directed attention to the present unsatisfactory distribution of the police force throughout many of the counties in Ireland, particularly in that which he had the honour to
 979
 MR. DAWSON  said, he wished to ask his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel) what the object of this Bill was—whether it was intended to supply an extra police force to the town of Belfast, or whether he intended to effect a re-distribution of the whole constabulary force throughout the whole of Ireland? If the latter he believed it would lead to a great deal of dissatisfaction. He also desired to know whether it was intended to empower the Lord Lieutenant every five years to effect a re-distribution of the police force over the country. If so, he thought that such an arrangement would be most unfortunate. It would be seen by the schedule that the police force of the county of Londonderry consisted only of 120 men, being the smallest number in proportion to the population of any county in Ireland. It had a population of 184,209 and an acreage of 522,800, whilst the county of Kilkenny, with a population of 99,940 had a force of 220 men. There were seven other counties, each of which had a population of 100,000, but in which the number of police was more than in the county of Londonderry. The resident magistrate had complained of the insufficiency of the police force in the city of Derry. His chief object in rising was to draw attention to the remarkable fact in respect to the county of Londonderry that no execution had taken place in it for more than 100 years—the last having taken place in the year 1745, and he had the authority of the late Chief Justice Doherty
 980
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he hoped that the House would not refer the Bill to a Select Committee, either of fifteen Members or of five, as proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns). The only question which such a Committee would have to decide would be the number of police which was to be allotted to each county, and that was a matter which could be much better determined by the executive Government, who, having regard to the extent of each county, its population, the facilities afforded for illicit distillation, and any exceptional circumstances which might affect it, would decide how many men were required to maintain law and order within its boundaries. Every county seemed to be anxious to have as many as possible. ["No, no!"] Well, then, if they desired to reduce the number, he had no doubt that his right hon. Friend would be delighted to meet their wishes. If a satisfactory distribution of the police force was to be carried out, the Government must disregard both the; original schedule and that which had been originally placed in this Bill. The original schedule was fixed in 1848, a period of considerable political excitement; and it was necessary at that time to concentrate large bodies of police in certain counties, in which the tendency to sedition was greatest. One of the most important duties which the police had to discharge was the suppression of illicit distillation, and it was a remarkable fact that in the counties of Mayo and Donegal, which had the smallest number of police in proportion to their size, there were almost as many offences against the Excise Laws as in all the other counties in Ireland.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he trusted that the House would allow him to proceed with the Bill without further discussion, which in his opinion could not produce any good result. With respect to the observations of the hon. Member for Leitrim, there was no doubt that the force in Leitrim was diminished from the Parliamentary quota allowed by the Bill of the right hon. Member for Kerry. Leitrim, with a population of 144,740 inhabitants, had a Parliamentary quota of
 981 982
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the right hon. Baronet had observed that he hoped that he (Sir Hugh Cairns) would not address the House at the present stage of the Bill in order that it might at once go into Committee. He (Sir Hugh Cairns) came down to the House in conformity with the notice standing in his name to move to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, but not with any intention to trouble the House with that Motion, because since the Bill had been laid upon the table, the right hon. Gentleman had given notice of Amendments which had considerably modified his objections to the Bill. He could assure his right hon. Friend that he had no intention to offer any objections to his Motion. He had merely risen to express his surprise that on a Motion for going into Committee upon the Bill his right hon. Friend should have gone into questions of an exciting and irritating kind.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I beg pardon. I was asked by my hon. Friend the Member for Londonderry (Mr. Dawson) what the object of the Bill was.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : The right hon. Gentleman, without the slightest provocation or cause, had gone into questions of a most debateable kind, and, having done so, he said he trusted that no one would answer his statements. He thought that the right hon. Gentleman had not read the Report, because he stated that the authorities of Belfast had petitioned the Government to abolish the local police force, and to proclaim the city of Belfast in a state of siege and martial law. Now he (Sir Hugh Cairns) gave his most unqualified denial to that statement. There was not
 983
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I beg the hon. and learned Gentleman's pardon. He knows as well as I do that the Government had received a deputation from Belfast during the existence of the riots, asking the Government to proclaim martial law in the town of Belfast.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : A deputation! Who were the authorities of the town of Belfast who had joined in that deputation? He challenged the right hon. Gentleman to mention one. What was the meaning of the right hon. Gentleman rising in his place and telling the House that the authorities of Belfast requested the Government to abolish the local force and to proclaim martial law? No doubt some twenty or thirty persons sent a petition to the Government. He did not impugn their respectability. They waited upon the Government asking, what he ventured to think was an exceedingly foolish request—namely, that martial law should be proclaimed, and that the local force should be abolished. There was not one magistrate or member of the corporation among them. The right hon. Gentleman also said that if July came without such a Bill as that being passed, there would be a renewal of the riots. Now the riots did not take place in Belfast upon the July anniversary, nor in connection with that anniversary, as the right hon. Gentleman would lead the House to suppose. He therefore trusted that no such statements would again be made. He was willing that the Bill should go into Committee, believing that many of the Amendments of the right hon. Gentleman were excellent. He should not certainly take upon himself the responsibility of delaying this measure, as he was willing to give the Government credit for wishing to maintain peace and good order in Belfast as in every other part of the United Kingdom. So far from throwing an obstacle in the way of this Bill, he would give the right hon. Gentleman his cordial assistance in rendering it as effective as possible.
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, as the Bill originally stood there was a schedule attached to it which allotted to Belfast 130 men as the Parliamentary quota. Upon consideration he thought it better to omit that schedule and to insert a new clause in substitution of Clause 3, in which it was provided that the Lord Lieutenant should have the power of altering the distribution of the Parliamentary quota as enacted by the Bill of 1857. In addition to that the Government proposed to increase the total number of the force to 450—that was to say, 320 men in addition to the 130, which would be paid for as in other counties as an extra force—half from the county and half from the Consolidated Fund. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) had an Amendment on the paper, proposing to reduce the number of the force to 400; but considering that it would have to do the night watching, he thought the number named in the Bill was more expedient. However, if the Committee were of a different opinion, he should have no objection to the change. There would be three sub-Inspectors and one Inspector, who would have supreme authority over the force. In fact, he would have very much the same powers as a county inspector. Belfast was situated part in the county of Down and part in the county of Antrim, and it was proposed for the purposes of this Bill only, that Belfast should be a county of itself, and support its own force, like Limerick, Gal-way, Londonderry, and several other large towns in Ireland. He should move the omission of Clause 10, because he did not think it would be just for the Government to give superannuation to the police of Belfast when the local force were not entitled to superannuation out of the borough fund. The Belfast police force would be paid out of the borough fund, and the municipal authorities would be bound to provide sufficient means for carrying on the additional force required to strengthen the Parliamentary quota of the borough.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to ask, as it was proposed to omit Clause 3 from the Bill, what would be its effect upon the clause in the Act of 1857 which provided that every five years there should be a general re-distribution of the constabulary over the country—whether it would have the effect of leaving it in the power of the executive Government to vary from time to time the numbers of the constabulary in different counties in Ireland, or whether
 985
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, he should not have taken part in the discussion, but I for the observation of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) in which he had I entirely, he would not say intentionally, misrepresented what he (Sir Hervey Bruce) stated on a former occasion. He corrected the right hon. Baronet on a former occasion, and he thought the right hon. Baronet, might have accepted his denial, and not have repeated it. He denied that he ever stated that Coleraine was such a disorderly and demoralized place that it required an additional police force. It was discourteous on the part of the right hon. Baronet to make the statement. There was no justification whatever for his assertion.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, that as the extra police force was paid out of the local rates, it was desirable to get rid of them as soon as possible. They could now spare 300 from Tipperary, and he thought the best thing would be to transfer them to Belfast.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was proposed to re-distribute the men in the constabulary as laid down in the schedule of the Act of 1857 for the purpose of this Act only; and when the five years expired, it would then be for the Lord Lieutenant to arrange the distribution according to the enactments in force. The proposed distribution was for the purpose of giving to Belfast its proper quota. With regard to the observations of the hon. Baronet the Member for Coleraine (Sir Hervey Bruce), he begged to assure him that he did not in any way mean to offend him by what he (Sir Robert Peel) had said. With regard to what had been said by the hon. Member for Cashel (Mr. Lanigan), it was no doubt true that Tipperary had too many police, for there was probably not another part of Ireland where there were so many police in proportion to the population as in Tipperary. Tipperary, he was happy to say, was now as tranquil as any part of Ireland. The police force was sent there on a requisition from the magistrates, and if the hon. Member would induce the magistrates to memorialize the
 986
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that under the 11 & 12  Vict.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought the Amendment unnecessary. The constabulary would discharge all the duties in Belfast which they performed in Cork and all other towns under the Constabulary Act. The Amendment might have an operation which did not appear at first sight, and might embarrass the action of the constabulary.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, it was necessary that the addition should be made to the clause. Sir Henry Brownrigg, the Inspector General of the Constabulary, had stated in 1861, on an application by the corporation, that in the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown the constabulary could not enforce the bye laws of the corporation, and could only discharge the duties imposed under the Constabulary Acts. Now, in Belfast there were a number of local Acts, and without such an Amendment as that he now proposed the constabulary would not be able to enforce
 987
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had no objection to the Amendment—though he thought it superfluous—if it was the wish of the Committee that it should be added to the clause.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he hoped that the right hon. Baronet would explain the rules which would guide the distribution of the constabulary force under the new clause. There were certain districts which were satisfied with very few policemen when they had to pay for them, but which, now that the expense was borne by the Consolidated Fund, wanted every man that could be had.
 MR. W. ORMSBY GORE  said, the clause it was intended to substitute would give great powers to the Lord Lieutenant and the Chief Secretary for Ireland, and so long as they discharged their duties fairly and impartially, there would be nothing to fear; but it was said a great deal of backstairs influence prevailed in Dublin Castle. If they could have any guarantee that the clause would be fairly worked, it would be desirable for the Committee to agree to it.
 LORD NAAS  said, if the clause was left out the representatives of Ireland would not know what the distribution of the police was to be. He should like to know the exact reason for striking out the clause.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that after consultation with the corporation of Belfast it was thought desirable to state the number of men to be employed. The Government did not intend to take away any constabulary from any county which was paying for extra men. There was no desire whatever to do anything underhand.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  proposed the following Amendment.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the ordinary police force of Belfast consisted of 160 local men and 65 members of the constabulary—225 in all. The proposition of the right hon. Baronet would raise the force to a number not exceeding 450—namely, 120 absolutely appointed to the town, and a number not exceeding 320 which the Lord Lieutenant would be authorized to send. The Amendment did not make it compulsory on the Lord Lieutenant to send 320, but it was competent for him to do so. Now, as the appointment of this force would affect the financial arrangements of the corporation, it was necessary to know the precise number of men of whom the force was to consist, because the corporation had to pay half the expense of the extra men. It was true the Commissioners suggested that there should be power to send 120 men, but they had scarcely weighed sufficiently the evidence laid before them. Nothing could be clearer than that according to the evidence the maximum force should be 400, which was an enormous increase as compared with the present number of 225 men. Inspector Hervey, of the constabu-
 989
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that his proposal would cause a great saving in the local police expenditure of Belfast. At page 10 of the evidence the hon. and learned Gentleman would find recommendations that the police force should be from 400 to 500 for Belfast. He hoped the Committee would adopt his proposal of making the maximum number 450, and that the hon. and learned Gentleman would not persist with his Amendment. If, however, the Committee were of opinion that the number should be 400, and not 450, as he had no very strong feeling on the point, he would give way.
 MR. BRADY  said, he thought that the people of Belfast ought to be satisfied with the proposal of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel), as it would reduce the cost of their police.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he doubted whether there would be any saving if the proposal of the right hon. Baronet were adopted, for the superannuations to which it would lead must be taken into account. For several years to come Belfast would have to pay a greater police rate than it had hitherto paid, as compared with Cork. He contended that Belfast ought to have
 990
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he thought that in the interest of the men themselves the number should be ample, as the night duty especially was very trying.
 LORD NAAS  said, that all the witnesses examined were of opinion that 400 would do the work perfectly, including night duty. If 400 were ample, they ought to fix that number now definitely that the people might know the strength of their police force.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he hoped the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) would persevere in his intention to give effect to the spirit and scope of the recommendations of the Commissioners, so that any future attempt at disturbance might be at once quelled.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, it was idle to talk of the number of police necessary to quell a riot when it once got to a head. Four hundred and fifty would be just as ineffective for that object as 400. The question was—what is to be the ordinary police force? He trusted that the right hon. Baronet would adhere to the evidence of his own officer of constabulary, who said that 400 were amply sufficient.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to inquire the proportion the 450 men proposed bore to the total population of the town.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the proportion would be one policeman to every 350 of the population.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the proportion extraordinarily large. In London the proportion was one constable to every 500 of the population.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was intended to send a person to Belfast who would hold the office of Inspector of; Constabulary, but that he would not necessarily be one of the county Inspectors. He would be paid entirely out of the local rates of Belfast.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he had been authorized by the corporation of Belfast
 991
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought the lesser sum quite sufficient, the more especially considering that the salaries of the stipendiary magistrates had been reduced. He could not understand the object of the hon. and learned Gentleman's liberality.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he had moved the Amendment with the view of securing the services of a competent person; but if the Government thought they could obtain the services of such a man as was recommended by the Commissioners in their Report, for £400 a year—at which he would be very much surprised—he should most gladly withdraw his Amendment.
 LORD NAAS  said, there was a question whether the constabulary were bound to perform night duty in towns or not, and the proposal in the clause, which seemed to recognize that the constabulary were not so bound, seemed to him very objectionable. In some towns of Ireland a large amount of property was nightly exposed to depredation, the constabulary making no effort to protect it, and the consequence was that private watchmen had to be appointed at considerable expense. This was undesirable, and he suggested that this 6 d
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it was proposed to tell off a certain number of men every day for night watching, and these men would receive 6 d
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that whatever might be the intention of the right hon. Baronet, the words of the clause would authorize this payment to the constabulary if they were on duty for any portion of the night. He did not see why the right hon. Baronet should adhere to
 992
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was willing to postpone the clause.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he was anxious that the 6 d bonâ fide
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it might be better to consider whether any additional words were required in the clause.
 LORD NAAS  said, that as the clause now stood the whole of the constabulary might be paid this 6 d
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that Clonmel was practically unprotected during the night.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that he hoped there would be no mistake, and that it was to be understood that the Government took upon itself the responsibility that the whole duties of the night watch should be efficiently discharged by the constabulary. With this understanding he was willing to accept the proposal of the Home Secretary that the point should be reserved for consideration.
 LORD NAAS  said, that perhaps it would be better to postpone the clause and bring up a new one on the Report.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to ask if it were intended to superannuate all the police in Belfast. Were any of them to be drafted into the general police force. It was objectionable to give compensation to such of them as were young men and fit for duty, and to charge such compensation on the local funds of Belfast.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  agreed that it was very hard the town should be burdened with providing compensation for a body of men many of whom were in the prime of life, and were willing to enter the constabulary force. It appeared that all these men, with the exception of fifteen, were under forty years of ago. It also appeared that the objection to receive them into the constabulary was that a number of them were married, and that the constabulary only admitted a certain proportion of married men. He thought that
 993 "Provided always, that, notwithstanding any regulation in respect of the appointment of constables to the constabulary force in Ireland, the Inspector General of the constabulary force in Ireland shall appoint to be constable in the lastmentioned force any constable of the said local police force whose age does not exceed forty years, and to whose conduct and character no fair objection can be made."
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he would support such an addition. It was stated that there was a difficulty in filling up the constabulary force to the proper number, and if so that was an additional reason for filling up the deficiency by appointing these men.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that many of those men were married, and the difficulty was that if they were sent to barracks in different parts of the country there would be no accommodation for their wives and families. Of course those who were eligible would enter the constabulary force if they pleased. Until within the last year or so there had been no superannuations of the police out of the borough rates of Belfast.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was of opinion that if the hon. and learned Gentleman read the Amendment again he would hardly think it right to press it. Many of the members of the local force might be unfit for the general constabulary in consequence of their want of sufficient height or sufficient strength. At all events, it was obvious that the matter could not be disposed of now, and without notice.
 MAJOR O'REILLY  said, the Committee would probably agree in the opinion that it was advisable in such cases to pursue the ordinary course and give due notice of Amendments. He agreed in the spirit of the Amendment, which was, that all eligible men of the Belfast local police force should be taken into the general constabulary of Ireland, so that they might not
 994
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he was willing to adopt the word "may "instead of "shall."
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he was of opinion that the clause would not work. A "constable "was equivalent to a sergeant in the line, and it was proposed by this clause to enlist the privates in the local force as "constables"into the constabulary.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, by the Amendment as it now stood the Inspector General would be authorized or obliged to place the men who were to be reenlisted in "the last-mentioned force;" but that was the Belfast force.
 LORD NAAS  said, it referred to the constabulary force in Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was exactly under the same impression as his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel), and that showed the necessity of giving notice of Amendments.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, that in consequence of 300 additional constabulary being sent to the county of Tipperary several years back, the ratepayers had paid for their maintenance since then £90,000 and upward. It appeared that the Government had no power to withdraw that additional force unless memorialized so to do by the magistrates, and he therefore proposed the following new clause to give the power to the Government:—
 "Whereas by the Act of 11 & 12  Vict
 MR. BRADY  seconded the Motion.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he thought that the proper persons to express an opinion on the subject were the magistrates, and the Lord Lieutenant in Dublin might not be so well able to judge of the expediency of retaining or withdrawing the additional police. The clause appeared to be a mere recital.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he thought the enactment of such a clause would be most objectionable. He admitted, however, the grievance to a particular county, as that of Tipperary, of being burdened with a large force when the circumstances which had required its presence had passed away. The Government, however, would consider the matter with a view to providing a remedy for the evil complained of. He thought that where an additional force had been sent to a county on the requisition of the magistrates they should not be removed without their consent.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he thought it extraordinary that when the grievance was acknowledged the right hon. Gentleman should oppose the simple means proposed of remedying it. The clause only gave the Lord Lieutenant power to remove men from any county where they were no longer wanted.
 MR. BRADY  said, he coincided with the hon. Members for Cashel and Clonmel (Mr. Lanigan and Mr. Bagwell) in the necessity of this clause, as he knew from experience the existence of the grievance it was proposed to remedy. The case was this. A certain number of agents who were, perhaps, magistrates, made themselves so disagreeable as to induce a consciousness of their own personal danger. They therefore called upon their brother magistrates to join them in a requisition to the Lord Lieutenant to have an extra force of police sent down to their district. The police were accordingly sent down, not for the general protection of life and property, but to calm the apprehensions and give confidence to a few individuals who had made themselves obnoxious to some of the people. Now these police were often continued in the district long after their services were needed. It therefore appeared to him to be absolutely necessary to give the power proposed by the clause to the Lord Lieutenant or local authorities to remove this burden off the particular county.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he did not think it desirable to insert such a clause in the Bill. It appeared to him that the police ought not to be withdrawn from any
 996
 MR. LANIGAN  said, he would withdraw the clause.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that he hoped the Government would consider the propriety of introducing into the constabulary force stationed in large towns and places a system for distinguishing them by numbers on their uniforms or otherwise, by which the individuals of that force could be easily identified, as in London and other places. Within the last two weeks even cases had occurred in Ireland in which complaints had been made against certain members of that force for misconduct, but in consequence of the great difference of testimony as to their identity the magistrates were in doubt how to act.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the matter should be referred to the Inspector General and considered. At the same time, it was fair to remember that the police in Cork and Galway were not distinguished by numbers, and no complaints had arisen on that score.
 SIR JAMES ELPHTNSTONE  said, in reference to the debate which took place on a former evening, that he did not think it was right that the Secretary of the Admiralty should come down to instruct the House upon matters of finance. The Chancellor of the Exchequer took exception to a proposition which he had ventured to make, and applied to it the term "ignominious" But he remembered that in 1860 the right hon. Member (Mr. Hors-man), in a very able speech, brought the subject of the defences of the country under the notice of the House, and it was notorious that the views of that right hon. Gentleman obtained the assent of Lord Herbert and of the noble Lord at the head of the Government. Whether those opinions met with the opposition of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer he did not know, but certain it was that the proposition of terminable annuities was pushed on by the noble Lord at the head of the Government. It was,
 1038
 MR. CORRY  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had called the proposal of his hon. Friend the Member for Portsmouth an ignominious expedient, had placed his justification for having given his sanction to identically the same course in 1860 on the ground of the exceptional financial circumstances of the time, but he did not recollect any such argument having been used in the course of the debates upon the Votes for fortifications. He had referred to the debate, and he found that the late Lord Herbert and Sir George Lewis took part in it, and neither of them regarded the question at issue as one of an exceptional character. The noble Lord at the head of the Government (Viscount Palmerston) was most precise in the language which he used on the subject, and justified the proposal made in the following words:—
 "In private life Parliament, by recent legislation, has empowered and encouraged individuals to raise money by loans, either from the Exchequer Bill Commissioners, or from private companies, for the purpose of effecting permanent improvements upon their landed property, spreading the repayment over a considerable period of time. Now, what is sound policy recognized by Parliament in the case of private individuals cannot be unwise or inexpedient as regards the greater and more important interests of the nation. By raising money by terminable annuities we should prevent that loan from becoming a permanent addition to the debt of this country."—[3  Hansard 1040 "He (Sir Stafford Northcote) objected to the plan because it throws upon posterity a burden which we ought to take upon ourselves. He reminds me of an answer given in the time of Mr. Pitt to somebody who was eulogizing the plan of a 'Sinking Fund,' on the ground that it would be relieving posterity from the burdens of the day. 'Why should we do so much for posterity? What has posterity ever done for us?' … The reason why I thought that the proper course was by loan was that these fortifications are permanent works made upon the freehold—they resemble permanent improvements made upon a man's estate, for which the owner is justified in charging those who come after him. He thought on the same principle that as those fortifications are permanent works it was fair to throw, on a certain period in advance, a burden which was too great to ask the House or the country to submit to in the current year."—[ See Hansard
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, that was precisely what he wished.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  deeply regretted that the situations of Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Hospital were to be abolished. Speaking from his own early recollections he knew that such offices were looked upon by the young men of the navy as encouragements. The offices proposed to be abolished were important to the dignity of the Hospital as an asylum, and officers of the greatest reputation and gallantry had been selected to fill them. He might, without disrespect to others, instance Admirals Lord Hood, Sir Richard Keats, Sir Thomas Hardy, and the present possessor, Sir James Gordon. A painful feeling would be excited among the inmates if men of high character were displaced and were no longer to preside over them. He did not agree with those who thought that officers were not entitled to share in the benefits of the Hospital. The Hospital was endowed in 1694 by William and Mary, and in 1703 the first hundred persons were admitted into it. That officers were entitled to share in its benefits was proved by an epitaph on an officer who died there of his wounds in 1709—
 "Here lies the body of Mr. PEARCE WELCH, Lieutenant of H.M. Ship  Salisbury 1009
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the second reading of the Bill afforded a legitimate opportunity for making some observations on the faults of commission and omission in the Bill. He thought the observations of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets well deserving of consideration with respect to the claims of the merchant seamen on the funds of the Hospital, but the hon. Member had somewhat overstated the claims of that class of men. The hon. Member admitted that by the Act of 1834 a charge of £20,000 a year had been thrown on the Consolidated Fund in lieu of the seamen's sixpences, and consequently for thirty years they had not paid anything towards the Hospital. That reduced their actual money claim to very narrow dimensions. But as the present was a great scheme for the re-constitution of the Hospital, he thought it worthy of consideration whether a portion of the benefits of the Hospital might not be extended to that body of men. He might be met by the objection that there were
 1005 1006 l½d 1007
 LORE CLARENCE PAGET  said, he would ask the House, if they did not object to the principle of the Bill, to agree to its being now read a second time  proformâ
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not hold out the smallest assurance that the Government would adopt the principle of carrying out these works by great loans. He could conceive nothing-more extravagant than, when great works were proposed, to resort to a system which was only entertained in time of war. The greatest consideration had been given to the matter, and he believed that a period of five years would enable them to construct the works with the greatest ease. To shorten the period and to ask for larger annual Votes, in his opinion, would not lead to greater economy. With regard to the contracts, every security would be taken for their proper performance.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had to express his gratification at the introduction of a Bill to deal with the gross abuses of Greenwich Hospital, shown to exist by the Report which was presented some time since to that House. It appeared that the number of seamen had been diminishing, while the expenses of the administration had been increasing, until at length every unfortunate seaman was condemned to suffer all the vexation and inconvenience of being in the Hospital at an expense to the charity of £60 or £70 a year, being double what he could live for in greater happiness and comfort in another place. The Government had brought in a comprehensive measure for dealing with the abuses which struck at the root of the evil, but it was so comprehensive that he wished to ask for some explanations of the measure. The Bill proposed to place the whole of the funds
 1002 1003 6d d 1004
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman to name the Committee before the holidays, or he was afraid the Bill would not be passed this Session.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that he begged, on the part of the gentlemen affected by the Bill, to recognize the interest taken by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) in the colonial service, as indicated by that measure. The Bill was a step in the right direction, although as it stood it did not meet the real requirements of the case and would not work. In introducing such a measure the first object should be to make it a measure which should give, if not universal, at any rate general satisfaction to the service, and not one the benefits of which would be confined to a very small part of it. These gentlemen were sent out to fill high and important posts, often in unhealthful climes. They were not merely colonial officers, but were the immediate representatives of the Sovereign, and after twelve or eighteen years' service, upon salaries out of which it was impossible for them to do justice to their position and save a sixpence, they returned home to be thrown upon the world penniless unless they happened to have private fortunes. The Bill required an active service of eighteen years from a Colonial Governor before he could receive a pension. In other words, he must have held three separate Governments. But at the present moment he believed there were not more than two officers in the service who would receive any advantage from the measure if that condition were insisted upon. One distinguished officer had served seventeen
 1020 1021 The Times "Now, doubtless, this scheme has been copied from the English Superannuation Act. But, as you will see, the cases are not analogous. The civil servant in England, whether in the Treasury, the Admiralty, or the Foreign Office, is during his whole period of service in the receipt of a salary—a salary, too, which is continually increasing with the duration of his employment. He receives this up to the moment when his pension becomes due. The salary and the pension, so to speak, coalesce. He knows no intermediate condition between that of full pay and pension. But the case of a Colonial Governor is wholly different. He is appointed for six years. When the six years are over he is not sure of being appointed to another Government. He has no absolute right or claim to such a re-appointment." "In short, my deliberate opinion about colonial service is this:—The public, in this department, is the worst master a man worth anything can have. Under the present system there is no career, properly so called, and an able man who devotes himself to the colonies makes a great and serious mistake. It may be, in many cases, that a man cannot help himself; but I speak of those who have an opportunity of advisedly selecting their line of life. It is not a comfortable reflection, after spending the best part of one's life in the public service, to find that the provision thought equitable in other cases is denied specially in yours. Whether a man can or cannot do without it, there must be a certain bitterness of feeling generated by the contrast." The Times 1022 "The colonial pay for all grades and departments is so small that it is almost impossible to save anything, and few men come home without getting into debt or encroaching on their private fortune."
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he did not concur in the objections raised against the Bill by the hon. Member for North Staffordshire as involving a departure from the principle laid down for the conduct of colonial affairs by recent legislation. There were cases in which a portion of the Governor's salary should be borne by the colonies—as, for instance, that of Australia, which was very wealthy, but he could not see what impropriety there could be in the Imperial Government paying the pension in cases in which the colonies paid the salaries. Every one who had studied the question knew that peculiar difficulties arose in the government of the colonies from the circumstance that, unfortunately, the Governor was frequently a mere puppet in the hands of the Colonial Legislature, and greater difficulties still would arise if he were dependent upon the Colonial Legislature for his pension as well as for his salary. It had been said that we should abandon
 1031
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, his opinion went even further than any which had yet been expressed as to the serious evils involved in this Bill, and if any adequate amount of support was likely to be accorded, he should seek to throw it out on the second reading. The defects of the measure were threefold. It did not do well, but stintingly, what it professes—that is, what was contemplated in the Resolutions passed last year at the instance of the hon. Member for Honiton, who was the virtual author of the Bill; next, it only made provision for those who had served a certain number of years, taking no account of others, who in shorter periods might have rendered more distinguished services to their country; but its principal defect lay in the fact that it was a retrograde step from the whole of our modern colonial policy. A retrograde step is taken in beginning again to charge colonial services upon the Treasury of England. It would be for the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had delivered so many able speeches on this subject, I to defend a measure opposed to all his expressed convictions. In the last century we tried to make the colonies tributary to this country by converting them into fields for the patronage of the British Crown, and seeking to gain com-
 1026 1027 "No doubt, whatever Bill might be passed on this subject, provisions would be introduced to enable the Government to grant pensions for distinguished services, even though the specified limit of service might not have been reached." 1028
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to correct a misapprehension which had arisen in the course of the debate on this subject. It had been represented that when Colonel Dawkins was put under arrest and allowed to come up to town he was at liberty to go where he liked and do as he liked.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would content himself then with reading the following lelter, which bore on the point:—
 MR. CARDWELL  said, no person could have listened to the discussion which had taken place on the measure before the House without feeling that to draw up a Bill of this description was no easy task. When the right hon. Member for Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) commenced his speech it almost appeared as if the Bill had only been successful in displeasing everybody, because it either went too far or not far enough; but as the right hon. Gentleman proceeded, it appeared that he was willing
 1032 quasi 1033 1034 reductio ad absurdum? 1035
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would put the Committee for Thursday, and he would then state what he intended to do with respect to it.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he apprehended that the policy to which the hon. Member referred related to the Trans Kei territory. The Governor had made a proposal to give to the Kaffirs who were disposed to settle there an eligible settlement; but that was not a policy which, in his opinion, was calculated to promote a Kaffir war within the colony. On the contrary, it was a policy which the Governor carried into effect upon his own responsibility under instructions received from home; and he was sorry to say that the assumption which the hon. Member's question appeared to convey was not warranted by the facts, as the responsibility of defending the colony had always rested upon this country, only a small contribution being made by the colony.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that measures had been taken by every succeeding Secretary of State, first by Lord Taunton, when Secretary of State for the Colonies, who proposed that the Question between the Hudson's Bay Company and Canada, with regard to the western boundary, should be settled by an appeal to the Privy Council; then by the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Bulwer Lytton), under the administration of Lord Derby, who finding that Canada disputed the claim of the Hudson's Bay Company to their territory, recommended Canada to try the matter by legal proceedings; then by the late Duke of Newcastle, who entered into negotiations with the Hudson's Bay Company, to establish a Crown Colony in that region; and, finally by himself, who, reverting to the opinion of the Committee of 1857, entered into communications with Canada, hoping to induce them, as the Committee had recommended, to undertake the government and settlement of that territory. With regard to the rights of property in that territory, former Governments, acting under the advice of their Law Officers, held that Her Majesty's Government could not honourably dispute the rights of the Hudson's Bay Company, under their Charter. He had not himself referred the question to the present Law Officers of the Crown, but he had no reason to suppose that they would differ in opinion from their predecessors.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is true, as stated in newspapers, that the Governor of the Cape Colony is pursuing a policy in regard to the Kaffirs of which the responsibility has not been assumed by the Colonial Legislature; and whether, in the event of war arising, it might not be difficult under these circumstances to enforce upon the Representative Government of the Colony its obligation to bear the whole burden of internal defence?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he did not think the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer were of any force as opposed to the proposal of the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Morton Peto) or to that of his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Portsmouth (Sir James Elphinstone). No comparison could fairly be drawn between the two cases of the building of the Houses of Parliament and the construction of docks, which were intended for the security of the country. The real question was whether the proposed works were to be completed in four years at a smaller or fifteen years at a greater cost. The Government would, he thought, be incurring
 1041
 MR. MOOR  said, he wished to call attention to the case of a gentleman—a friend of whose abilities he had full knowledge—who for fourteen years had administered the affairs of a district in one of our largest colonies, to the satisfaction of the Government, and whose claim to a pension was not included in the provisions of this Bill. He was sent out in 1839, to manage the affairs of a large district (Port Phillip), which happened at that time to be under the administration of the Governor of New South Wales. He held Her Majesty's Commission, not as Lieutenant Governor, but under the new-fangled name of Superintendent. Then the separation of the district from New South Wales took place, and he became Lieutenant Governor. During that time he was sent under the Sign Manual of Her Majesty to New Zealand. It was admitted by the Government that he had served the country for fourteen years with integrity, assiduity, and success; and yet the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) coolly informed him in a despatch, that because for a certain portion of the time he was only called superintendent of the province over which he ruled, he could not participate in the rights which this Bill professed to give. He (Mr. Moor) challenged the
 1025
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the expenditure of the Hospital would come under the review of Parliament annually by being voted in the Estimates and repaid to the Consolidated Fund out of the
 1018
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Government did not propose to spread the construction of those works which they looked upon as of essential importance over a period of fifteen years. On the contrary, all the essential portions of the scheme would be proceeded with as rapidly as was consistent with efficiency. The important works at Portsmouth, for instance, would, he hoped, be completed in five years, those in Chatham in four, at Cork in six, and at Malta in three years. The less urgent works would be constructed at a slower rate.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was exceedingly glad he had satisfied the gallant Admiral on that point. The next question was as to the mercantile navy. He was a little surprised at the arguments of the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell), but he might set against them those of the opposite extreme, which had recently been several times urged in  The Times 1013 "Whereas it is our Royal intent and purpose to erect and found an hospital within our manor of East Greenwich, in our county of Kent, for the relief and support of seamen serving on board the ships or vessels belonging to the Navy Royal of us, our heirs, or successors, or employed in our or their service at sea, who by reason of age, wounds, or other disabilities shall be incapable of further service at sea, and be unable to maintain themselves, and for the sustentation of the widows and the maintenance and education of the children of seamen happening to be slain or disabled in such sea service; and also for the further relief and encouragement of seamen and improvement of navigation." "And it is hereby further enacted, by the authority aforesaid, that all sums of money, collected and received by the respective receivers of the rents and profits of the said premises so forfeited and vested in His Majesty aforesaid which were not paid into the receipt of the Exchequer on or before the 25th day of March, in the year of our Lord, 1735, and all arrears of rents and profits of the same premises, due and owing from the several farmers, tenants, and occupiers of any part or parts thereof at or on the said 25th day of March, 1735, and all the rents, issues, and profits of the said premises which shall from and after the said 25th day of March, 1735, grow, accrue, or become due and payable for and during His Majesty's said estate and interest in the said premises (subject in the first place to the payment of the said annuity of £100 a year as the same shall grow due, and of all principal and interest due and to grow duo upon the several incumbrances hereinbefore mentioned), shall be issued and applied, and are hereby appropriated and applied to the uses and for the purposes following—that is to say, in the first place for and towards the finishing and completing the building of the said Royal Hospital for seamen at Green, wich, and after the building of the same Royal
 1014 "And whereas the said hospital is not capable to receive nor the income thereof sufficient to provide for the seamen in the service of the Royal Navy who are wounded, maimed, or worn out by age, or otherwise entitled to the benefits thereof, so that the seamen in the merchants' service maimed and disabled in fight have seldom, if ever, been admitted into the said hospital, though entitled thereto, and proper objects of charity. And whereas there is no provision at all made by either of the said Acts for such seamen in the merchant service as are maimed or disabled by accidental misfortune, or for those worn out by age, or for the widows or children of such men as shall be killed, slain, or drowned in the said service." "Whereas by several Acts of Parliament, sundry estates, rents, and sums of money are granted and specially appropriated for and towards the finishing and completing the building of the Royal Hospital for Seamen at Greenwich, and for and towards the maintenance of the seamen in the said Hospital worn out and become decrepit in the service of their country." "Merchant seamen were zealously excluded from the benefit of Greenwich." "The Act of William III. was an unjust one, and it was the duty of the House to redress the wrong committed under its sanction. In Greenwich Hospital merchant seamen had no interest at all." "It had been said merchant seamen were not benefited, but what quibbling was that when after one day's service in the navy they had a title to the Hospital?" "Merchant seamen had no interest in the fund, or at best so remote an interest that they could not comprehend it." 1015 statu quo 1016 d s d d s pro formâ 1017
 MR. CHILDERS : They would not unless they were fit subjects for the Hospital; they must be either wounded, maimed, infirm, or helpless.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that almost every part of this proposal had been criticized, although perhaps the suggestions were as varied as they were numerous. He would, however, endeavour to answer each of the objections which had been urged against this scheme. With respect to the classes by whom the benefits derived from the Hospital funds would be enjoyed, the present condition of things would remain as nearly as possible unaltered. As merchant seamen had, with a few exceptions, which he would explain, never enjoyed the benefits of the Hospital, they did not propose to extend its advantages any further in that direction. The general principle of the Bill was to maintain the existing proportion between the different classes of officers and men for whom the institution had become available; but, at the same time, to extend its benefits among those classes by a more judicious and economical system of management. The present number of in-pensioners was about 1,000; and he believed that the country generally, while he was sure that the navy itself, would prefer that that number should be increased to 5,000 or 6,000 out-pensioners. They purposed acting on the assumption that Greenwich Hospital was intended, so far as the building was concerned, to be for the future an asylum for infirm, helpless, and wounded seamen, and that seamen were not necessarily entitled to be received as inmates merely because they were in receipt of pensions, and because they were unfit for longer service at sea. Starting on that assumption, their endeavour would be to apply the funds of the institution in the most economical way for the general benefit of the navy; at the same time, taking care not to disturb the existing balance of affairs between the Treasury and the Hospital. Having thus stated the general object which they proposed carrying out, he would proceed to bring under the notice of the House more specifically the manner in which that object was to be effected. Taking their past experience for guidance, they intended providing for as many infirm,
 1012
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was not at liberty to refer to speeches made in a former debate.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to
 1011
 MR. STANILAND  said, he wished to make an explanation with reference to some observations that fell from him on Tuesday evening. In speaking of the disturbances which had taken place in St. George's-in-the-East, he had stated that the Rev. Bryan King had joined the communion of the Church of Rome, whereas it was the Rev. Mr. Brown, at one time curate of St. George's, who had been admitted into the Roman Catholic Church
 978
 MR. INGHAM , as a Member of the Royal Commission, said, he was of opinion that, though the words bearing on this point were general, the benefits of the charity were intended not for the merchant service but only for seamen in service under the Crown. That officers were not admissible was proved by the history of the Hospital. No doubt many had lived and died there, but they had been employed in the government of the Hospital. The fact that officers were not intended as objects of the charity seemed proved conclusively by one of the old rules, that if a seaman was promoted as master's mate he should be entitled to admission notwithstanding such promotion. He thanked the Government for the Bill. He heartily approved of the abolition of the system of double government, and had no doubt that by unity of action much good would be effected. He was satisfied that the allowing of pensioners to live amongst their friends would result in an increase of their comforts. He could not, however, but regret the superannuation of the Governor, because it would have given him great satisfaction to see some distinguished officer residing at the Hospital.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he replied to the hon. and gallant Baronet (Sir James Elphinstone) under protest, because he thought the reviving of debates was an inconvenient practice. The hon. Baronet complained of an epithet; which epithet, however, he had misunderstood in its application to the matter under discussion. The view of the hon. Baronet was that because in a certain case, for certain purposes, in a certain state of the public mind, at a certain stage of the public expenditure, and for certain objects which were supposed to be of urgency, it had been proposed to resort to the plan of terminable annuities, therefore the policy of executing public works upon that principle had been admitted. He protested against that doctrine, as it would lead necessarily to "ignominious" expedients, and he used that term without at all intending to apply it to the hon. and gallant Baronet, who, he was certain, would not propose anything which he thought could be liable to such an imputation. The plan of terminable annuities was resorted to in the instance referred to as an exceptional proceeding, and he had compared it with another case of a similar character—the emancipation of the slaves—in order to show that there were cases in which Parliament might go out of the ordinary course to create an exception according to the circumstances of the time. But that was no reason why all general rules should be broken down. If the rule were to be broken in one case, where were they to stop? The hon. Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote), whose absence he regretted on that occasion, made a vigorous speech, showing the danger attaching to such exceptional proceedings, even in extreme cases. Of course, it was a question of degree, but he contended that there was nothing in the present case to justify a departure from the ordinary rule. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto), he agreed that public works should be executed in the manner most convenient and advantageous to the country, and the question of applying the charge
 1039
 MR. ANGERSTEIN  said, that the House was much indebted to the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) for bringing forward this subject. The fact that eight officers were selected out of the first 100 persons upon whom the advantages of the Hospital were conferred proved that officers were intended to share in the benefits of the institution. He should like, however, to know from his hon. Friend whether the officers who he stated were to be liberally compensated were to be placed in their former position on the Navy List. Officers of all ranks had been in Greenwich Hospital, and had subsequently by leave gone on the active list. Among the most famous examples were Lord Rodney and Captain Cook, the great circumnavigator of the globe.
 MR. MONSELL : I am sure, Sir, there is nobody in this House more willing than myself to meet the reasonable wishes of the right hon. Member for Bucks. He always shows the greatest courtesy to every Member of this House, and everybody would desire to meet his wishes. It was communicated to me early this evening that the right hon. Gentleman desired that I should postpone this Bill. I replied that I should be most happy to meet the wishes of the right hon. Gentleman if he could assure me that he would be prepared to propose a clause enacting a common oath for all Members, which would contain none of those clauses which my Bill proposed to omit. It was quite obvious that no other course would meet with the assent of the majority of this House, and therefore any attempt to postpone the Bill except on that understanding would be perfectly useless. I stated further, what of course every one must acknowledge, that at this critical period of the Session to postpone the Bill without some such understanding as that would be to sacrifice the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman has informed me that he is not willing to agree to those conditions, and therefore, regretting most sincerely the absence of the right hon. Gentleman, I shall be obliged to proceed with the Bill to-morrow.
 SIR EDWARD GROGAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, If any, and what steps have been taken by the Government, since the Report of the Select Committee was presented to this House, for opening up
 977
 SIR JAMES ELPHINSTONE  said, the Government were about to administer the funds of Greenwich Hospital on a better system than that in use at present. The origin of the Hospital was in the charitable feelings of the Sovereign of the day. The country had enjoyed a large amount of credit for its cheap philanthropy, though it had never given anything to its funds. When they were making new arrangements the claims of the merchant seamen, who contributed their sixpences, ought not to be ignored. In the first American war the merchant seamen were pressed into the service, but in many instances the whole of their services were lost so far as any claim of a pension was concerned. They had now the Naval Reserve, and the men who served in it ought to get a portion of the benefits to be derived from the Hospital. The funds had principally been made up from Chatham Chest, the percentage on freights, merchant seamen's sixpences, dead men's effects, &c. The hon. Gentleman had quoted the Act of Parliament of 1747, and the original charter, to show that merchant seamen were not included in the original design. But different circumstances had since occurred, and it would have been a wise plan to give merchant seamen a share in the benefits, since they had for 130 years paid their sixpence a month to the Hospital. They ought to transfer the establishment of the  Dreadnought 1019
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he thought that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) had very successfully answered the first by the second part of his speech. He could not for a moment agree with his right hon. Friend that from the fact of a Governor's salary having been paid by the colony the Crown should not, therefore, grant pensions for services rendered to it in any part of the world. His right hon. Friend apprehended that the colonies which paid the salaries of those Governors would reduce those salaries when they found that pensions were to be paid by the country; and he had mentioned the case of Victoria as a colony in which the salary of the Governors was being reduced. But why was that being done in Australia? Because the salary of the Governors had been raised to a very unusual amount, £15,000 a year—under pressure of the enormous rise of prices which had followed the discovery of gold there; and now that things were coming back to their level, the same reasons did not exist for the payment of such a salary. But he wished to apply himself to a much larger question. He entirely approved the principle of the Bill, but he asked to whom it would apply. He doubted very much whether it would apply to any one. He concurred with what his right hon. Friend had said with respect to Sir Francis Head, who, no doubt, was a most distinguished public servant, and had not been treated in a manner creditable to this country. He had been sent out at a very critical moment, but instead of being re warded for what he had done in Canada,
 1029
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I wish to appeal to the right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) in regard to the Bill which, according to arrangement, he is to bring on at to-morrow morning's sitting. That arrangement was made, as he will recollect, at the request of my right hon. Friend the Member for Bucks (Mr. Disraeli). I am sorry to say that my right hon. Friend is now suffering from a severe attack of the gout, and that there is no possibility of his being in the House tomorrow. Under those circumstances, and as I know my right hon. Friend was de-
 1036
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Would the out-pensioners be at liberty to return if they desired?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to know whether the expenditure would be provided by Parliament out of the Consolidated Fund, and what would be the future government of the Hospital?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I do not understand in what position I am placed by the proposition of the noble Lord. I am sorry my hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) is not in the House, as there are several points on which I intended to ask for explanations with regard to the intentions of the Admiralty. I do not wish unfairly to delay the Bill, but I think I had better now state the points which I regard with doubt, and on which I desire to elicit from the Government some statement of what their intentions are. There are, no doubt, faults in the management of Greenwich Hospital which call for reform, and as this Bill professes to reform them, I suppose we ought not to object to it. On one point everybody is agreed: it is that the double government of Greenwich Hospital is bad, and no doubt my hon. Friend is right in putting an end to it. Another point is the intention of the Government to diminish the number of inmates and increase the number of out-pensioners. I have no very strong opinion on that, but I believe from the inquiries I have made there is a general concurrence on the subject, and I am willing to think the proposal is right. But it appears to me that the Admiralty is mistaken as to what will be the immediate effects of their proposal. They are to reduce the number to about 600, it being now about 1,400; but I believe this, upon their own showing, cannot take place until a considerable lapse of time. The proposal is to give out-pensions to all those not absolutely infirm and physically incapable of leaving the Hospital, so that they may live with their own families. This is to be done by granting pensions of  5d 9d 5d 998 999 1000 "On the one hand there will he a danger that property left for a special purpose will he merged into the general property of the nation, but on the other hand the expenditure will be subject to the revision of Parliament." 1001
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he wished to express his regret that in the new works contemplated in the dockyards the Government had not adopted the course which had been recommended to them by the Committee of which he had been a Member, as the most economical for completing them in the shortest possible time. Looking to the wants of our navy under the new system of the last few years, there was no country in a worse condition as regarded dockyard accommodation than ourselves, and he was quite sure that if the works had been left to competent contractors they might be executed in four years. As the right hon. Gentleman
 1037
 MR. CAVE  approved entirely of the general principle and object of the Bill. He thought it would tend to make the service more popular, and bring into it a larger number of competent men. He could not agree with his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) that the colonies ought to pay these pensions. It might be quite right that as long as they enjoyed the benefit of the services of their Governors they should pay the salaries; but the House ought to look at the Bill in a more Imperial point of view as the means of obtaining a body of public servants upon whom this country could rely for the government of any colony at any time. This measure would also confer a great boon upon a meritorious class of public servants who had received hitherto but little consideration. It was rarely possible for a Colonial Governor to save much out of his salary—a saving Governor was rarely successful. Those who were popular and successful frequently spent part of their private means in addition; and they, too, often returned home, after protracted periods of service, broken in health, with habits formed in a different mode of living, with their friends dispersed or dead, their power and consequence gone, and not even a bare competence to reward them for having spent the best years of their lives in their country's service. He (Mr. Cave) looked also to another advantage from this measure. It was rarely possible to tell he-forehand whether any man would make a good Governor or not. An excellent civil servant frequently made a very indifferent Governor. This Bill took from the Secretary of State all excuse for continuing such a man in such a post, by providing that, if recalled to his former occupation, he should lose none of the time during which this as it were experimental office had lasted. But he was sorry the Bill had not gone somewhat further in the same direction, and allowed the time occupied by Governors in civil employments in the colonies
 1030
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he thought that there were many defects in this Bill. In his opinion it was far too exclusive. It proposed only to reward officers who had passed almost their lives in filling these offices. It was not a continuous service, and a man might serve here and there and have great intervening periods between his different appointments, which would deprive him of a pension; and therefore he thought that the Bill would not give that satisfaction to gentlemen in this service that it was desirable they should feel. He was greatly disappointed that the Bill confined pensions exclusively to cases of length of service. The House should consider how appointments of this kind were made, and that they were different from the rest of the Civil Service appointments. The gentlemen in question were selected exclusively at the discretion of the Colonial Minister, and he might or might not continue to employ them. He (Sir William Jolliffe) could not see why the Minister's discretion should be exercised only in this way, nor why in the case of great and distinguished services he should not have the power to recompense those services. He had the honour last year to bring before the House the case of Sir Francis Head, who many years since rendered services to this country which were quite un-
 1023 "In the printed Bill now before the House of Commons this morning, no such provision exists; and as no one can be more desirous than I am to uphold the monarchical principle that a reward for public services can emanate solely from the Minister of the Crown, I feel that the only course I have to pursue is, without a moment's delay, to request you to be so good as to state in the House of Commons, in my behalf, that in perfect good humour, and without the smallest complaint, I bow to the adverse decision of the Queen's Government, which excludes me in my 73rd year from any portion of the rewards proposed by Her Majesty's Ministers to be given retrospectively to the bygone services of other Colonial Governors. "Although I clearly see that it was quite right to omit in this Bill the intended clause in favour of short 'distinguished services,' which, to colonial secretaries, would always be difficult, as well as invidious, to define; yet, I feel that a short special clause, authorizing the Colonial Minister to weigh my services, instead of measuring them, might, without very much injury to the public service, have been introduced. For if, without troops, I repelled the invasion of Canada quickly, is it not rather hard that I should be excluded from reward, simply for the reason that I was not long enough about it? And is it not harder still that Parliament, after passing a 'Canada Rebel Indemnity
 1024 "Lastly, while the President of the United States, at this moment, is expounding, as a republican doctrine, that 'though murder is a crime, arson is a crime, yet that the greatest of all crimes is treason,' is it not rather strange that the monarchical Parliament of Great Britain should, by two separate enactments, not only pardon, but reward the Queen's enemies in Canada; and, on the other hand, neglect one who, by obediently giving up an appointment of £1,000 a year, has literally sacrificed £27,000, by successfully defending, as Her Majesty's representative, in that remote region, her laws, her territory, and her people? "It is possible history may argue that I have been, by my country, roughly dealt with. She shall, however, have no just cause to say, that, insensible of the blessings I have enjoyed, I was foolish enough, and ungrateful enough, to die … discontented."
 MR. DAWSON  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the al-
 1100
 MR. PEEL  replied that the 1st of July next was the day fixed for the commencement of the mail service referred to by the hon. Member.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, What arrangements have, in compliance with the recent decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, been made with reference to the See of Rupert's Land?
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, in answer to the first part of the question of the noble Lord, he had to state that all the police constables were of equal rank; but, owing to a recent arrangement which had been made for increasing the pay of the police, they were divided into different classes in respect to pay, and the constables employed in the palaces, the Houses of Parliament, and other public buildings continued to receive the same pay as they had received before that arrangement—namely, a guinea a week. He might observe that these men had originally been in the first class as regarded pay,
 1103
 MR. MOFFATT , in rising to call attention to the Report of the Select Committee on the Bankruptcy Act of 1861, and the existing state of the Laws in regard to Debtor and Creditor; and to move, that, in the opinion of this House, the Report of the Select Committee on the Bankruptcy Act of 1861 deserves the prompt and serious consideration of Her Majesty's Government, said, that on the former occasion on which this subject was before the House, when the discussion came to a somewhat untimely end, he showed by documents which were before the House the existence of a state of things which fully warranted the complaints which were made on all sides. The affairs of bankruptcy appeared to have always been dealt with in the most unsatisfactory manner for the commercial interests of the country. The state of things previous to the passing of the Act of 1861 was bad enough, but he believed that there was no man who would not gladly return to it rather than maintain the existing law. In the three years previous to 1860 the number of bankruptcies was about 1,200 in each year, the debts proved averaged £5,100,000, and the moneys collected £1,300,000—a sum equivalent to about 5 s. 1110 s. s. s., s., s. 1111
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he had no difficulty whatever in stating, as he had stated before, that the Government would undoubtedly recognize the duty of taking into prompt and serious consideration the Report of the Select Committee on the Bankruptcy Acts. He was glad to find that, so far as he had had the opportunity of ascertaining, so many hon. Members concurred in some of the most important recommendations of that Committee. The Committee were quite agreed in the opinion that it was desirable no longer to attempt to patch up a system which had been found not to answer, but that there should be a serious endeavour made to revise, as far as possible, both its principle and its details, and to place them on such a footing as would afford some reasonable ground that we should understand the system on which we were going to proceed in future, and start with a favourable expectation of its success. The Committee had recommended substantially that for which the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Beecroft) contended for, with regard to the taking insolvent estates out of the hands of the Court so far as related to the mere collection and distribution of assets, while they had also made the important recommendation that imprisonment for debt should be abolished; but at the same time, and as a necessary sequel to that alteration, that the discharge given to a bankrupt or insolvent debtor should not at once operate, except on the payment of a dividend of a certain amount. They also proposed to remove from the Bankruptcy Court all cognizance of fraudulent acts and to transfer such matters to the ordinary Courts. These were material alterations, and he mentioned them on the present occasion, not for the purpose of entering into a vindication of their merits, hut in order that the attention of the public out of doors might be directed to their consideration. If Parliament were to do anything useful, as he hoped it would in a future Session, it must proceed on the two grounds of endeavouring to consolidate the whole law and of securing the support of public opinion as to those important principles which it was proposed to introduce for the first time into the new system. It was indispensably necessary that the Government in dealing with the subject should be in the possession of the views of the mercantile community upon
 1114
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether his attention has been drawn to the great mortality that has recently occurred among the Coolies in their transport to Demerara, and especially on board the ships  Clarence Earl Russell, 1104
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD : Sir, I do not rise to follow the hon. and learned Member with the view of making a speech; I merely wish to say a few words by way of explanation. The hon. and learned Gentleman founded a portion of his speech on the assumption that two persons to whom he alluded—one my lamented brother and the other myself—who, he said, were in the habit of abstaining from voting on Church questions because we thought it was not possible to do so conscientiously in presence of the oath we had taken on our admission to the House. He based an argument upon that to show that if you keep this oath as it is, you are strengthening the Church Establishment. Now, Sir, I beg to explain that I do not. think that was the reason which influenced my brother's mind. I believe that my brother was led to take the course simply from a feeling that it would be better taste in him not to vote on such questions. That was the opinion that influenced him; that is the opinion that influences me. But, if one is to be met by arguments of that kind, I, and others who think with me, might look further into the question, in order to see whether we ought not to give our votes on such questions against the view which the hon. and learned Gentleman has attributed to me. I have said I think it better taste for Roman Catholic gentlemen not to interfere in Church questions; but it is obvious that words in this oath are a snare to some honest minds. Is it not very possible, for instance, that I was strengthening the Established Church by voting against church rates? Would it not be better for the Church if the question of church rates were settled? I might have voted against church rates on that ground. But I have never voted against church rates, because I felt it was better taste not to do so. I do think that any Established Church of any country in the world, founded though it be on the law, is still more strongly founded in the hearts, minds, and spiritual interests of those who belong to it, and that without oaths, without legal impediments, without any of those things that bind the consciences of men, you may rely on the true and real establishment of a Church for any country. Therefore, in my humble opinion, it would be better if the wisdom of Parliament would remove whatever may be a snare and is most disagreeable to the feelings of
 1097
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, he rose to ask, Whether the Government have come to any decision on the Petition from Auckland, praying for a separation of the Northern Province from the other Province of New Zealand?
 LORD ROBERT CECIL : I understood the noble Lord at the head of the Government to say that the former demands on the subject of the  Alabama Alabama
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would now ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Police Constables on duty in the Houses of Parliament, Palaces, and Public Buildings have been removed from the first to the third class; and, if so, for what reason; whether Constables who have been in the Force for as long as twenty or thirty years are similarly treated; whether they are prevented from contributing to the extra pension fund; whether their reduction from the first to the third class will affect the amount of the pension which they will receive; and what class of certificate those who have been reduced from the first to the third class will receive for many years' service in the Government Offices and other Public Buildings?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether a Commission is to be appointed to inquire into the state of the rivers of England, and
 1102
 MR. AYRTON , in seconding the Motion, said, that on a more favourable occasion he should have felt it his duty to present to the House fully and completely the Resolutions at which the Committee upon this subject had arrived; but as his hon. Friend had now been almost as unfortunate in his selection of a night as he was when the matter was last before the House, he would confine himself to the statement that the changes proposed by those Resolutions were of so fundamental a character, and would so affect almost every section of the statute now in force, that it would be impossible to carry them into effect by any mere amending Act, and that it would be necessary to give effect to the concluding Resolution, and introduce an independent Bill for the amendment and consolidation of the law. It could scarcely be expected that the Government would during the short time which remained of the present Session pass any comprehensive measure on the subject, but he hoped the Attorney General would be able to assure the House that it would receive their serious consideration, with a view to legislation when the new Parliament met. Meantime he had great pleasure in seconding the Motion of his hon. Friend.
 MR. LAYARD : The case is very simple. The original demand was that contained in papers which have been laid on the table of the House last year, or at the end of the previous Session. Whenever cases have arisen, whether solitary or otherwise, of vessels captured by the  Alabama 1109
 MR. LAYARD : In reply to the first
 1101
 MR. NEATE  then rose to call the attention of the House to some defects in the law relating to lunatics, both with respect to the administration of that law and its provisions, and to move an address for copy of any Returns now in possession of Government as to English subjects now in confinement in lunatic asylums abroad. The hon. Gentleman said the subject was one which had very recently been prominently brought under public notice, in consequence of the case of Mary Ryan, who had been forcibly removed from this country, and was proceeding, when—
 MR. NEWDEGATE : The House will permit me to explain what I have sworn, and what I meant by so swearing. I swore that the Pope held by law no jurisdiction, and I have never spoken of the influence which he exercised otherwise than as illegal.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : * 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 1057 1058 1059 "It is only due to the memory of men who underwent much obloquy for the time, and were even treated with a peculiar and galling kind of contempt, not usual in English political warfare, to ask ourselves, after an experience of just thirty years, which side was in the right? Have the results [that is to say, the results of the Act which you are now asked to alter—the Act of 1829] been in accordance with the sanguine anticipations of Canning, of Macintosh, of Grey, and of Brougham; or has the measure turned out as was predicted by Lord Eldon, 'that hater of all that was liberal and pleasant,' and by Lord Winchilsea, at whose tirades we have all laughed so heartily? There is, unhappily, no doubt about it; the genius, the liberality, and the eloquence were wrong; the narrowness, the bigotry, and the prejudice were right. Ever since the day of deliverance, the conduct of the Roman Catholics has more and more confirmed the predictions of their enemies, more and more disappointed the anticipations of their friends." "Let any one read the speech of Dr. Moriarty, at Killarney, or the disgraceful scene which occurred at the meeting in Cork (that was in 1859), and then ask himself whether such things are the result of British institutions, and whether he can recognize in them any one of those characteristics which, in spite of all their political differences, distinguish Englishmen from the rest of mankind. Where but in a Roman Catholic meeting, presided over by a bishop and harangued by deans and canons, could the name of the Queen be received with a burst of disapprobation, which rendered the speaker inaudible, from the very voices which yelled out a determination to fight for the Pope? From whom but a Roman Catholic Bishop could one hear it laid down, that it was the duty of a constituency in these islands to exercise their influence on their representatives in order to induce the Government of this country to put down a rebellion in a foreign State, not on any ground of public policy, in which the interests of England are concerned, but only because that tyrannical Sovereign was the head of their Church, and they
 1060 Non hœc mea verba: The Times, The Tablet, "If ever there was a land in which work is to be done, and perhaps much to suffer [speaking of those with whom he intended to act], it is here. I shall not say too much if I say that we have to subjugate and subdue, to conquer, and to rule an Imperial race. We have to do with a will, which reigns throughout the world, as the will of old Rome reigned once. We have to bend or break that will, which nations and kingdoms have found invincible and inflexible." "Were heresy conquered in England, it would be conquered throughout the world. All its lines meet here, and therefore the Church of God [meaning the Papal Church] must be gathered in its strength." 1061 The Leamington Courier "The Church of God was of Divine creation, rested on Divine rules; and [mark the concluding words of the sentence] was administered by Divine persons." "The doctrine of faith, of the Immaculate Conception, of the eternal Word, of eternal life, and of eternal death, were truths which surpassed human conception, and could only be received by Divine faith and teaching. It might be said, can this be the simple doctrine of Christianity? And [continued Dr. Manning] they were to believe it, and to believe that the teacher who delivered those doctrines was God, and that his voice was divine." 1062 Geo. 1063 "The measure which I now propose for your Lordships' adoption will prevent the increase of such establishments [meaning monastic institutions], and, without oppression to any individuals, without injury to any body of men, will gradually put an end to those which have been already formed. There is no man more convinced than I am of the absolute necessity of carrying into execution that part of the present measure [that is, the Act of 1829], which has for its object the extinction of monastic orders in this country. I entertain no doubts whatever that if that part of the measure be not carried into execution, your lordships will soon see this country and Ireland inundated by Jesuits and regular monastic clergy, with means to establish themselves within His Majesty's dominions." Burnet 1064 1065 1066 1067 1068
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, it was in the knowledge of the House that the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council had decided against the validity of the jurisdiction conferred by Letters Patent on the Bishops of the colonies having representative institutions, and it was the opinion of the Government, after that decision, that the whole subject of the Letters Patent to the Colonial Bishops ought to be carefully considered, and that in the meantime no Letters ought to be issued to any colonies. It was, however, important that no delay should take place in the appointment of a successor to the Bishop of Rupert's Land. The course, therefore, which had been pursued was that, under the advice of the Law Officers of the Crown, a letter had been addressed by the Archbishop of Canterbury to him (Mr. Cardwell), and in consequence of that letter Her Majesty had been pleased to issue a mandate to the Archbishop authorizing him to consecrate a Bishop, but no Letters Patent would be issued purporting to convey jurisdiction conferred by the Crown.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that he had not received the promised Report of the Governor on the subject of the petition from Auckland, praying for the separation of the Northern and Southern Provinces of New Zealand. The Government would not come to any final decision until that Report was received; but, as at present advised, they saw no reason to give any encouragement to such a proposal.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that his attention had been directed to the case of three ships, on board which, while on their passage from Calcutta to British Guiana, between the months of November and January, there had been an unusual mortality among Coolies. Two of those ships were the  Clarence Earl Russell.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was sorry his hon. Friend was not satisfied with the explanation which he gave last night, and the more so as be appeared to have entirely misunderstood one of the propositions contained in that explanation. His hon. Friend seemed to have understood that he laid down as a proposition that the expenses of any future Kaffir wars should be defrayed mainly by this country, and that the colony should bear but a small proportion of them. What he stated was much to the contrary. When his hon. Friend put his Question to him last evening, he (Mr. Cardwell) referred his hon. Friend to the papers laid on the table during the present Session, showing that the Governor, acting under instructions from home, had been taking those measures best calculated to prevent the risk of a Kaffir war by limiting our possessions to the Kei, and by offering to the Kaffirs territory for settlement there, and thus giving them cause for contentment, and diminishing the risk of war. His hon. Friend must also know that in the course of the present Session an Act of Parliament had been passed for the purpose of including the Territory of British Kaffraria within the Territory of the Cape Colony, one of the reasons adduced for which was that it would be more natural to call upon the Cape Colony to contribute a fair share of the expenditure under the new arrangement than under the old. He was not prepared to agree with his hon. Friend that, as a matter of course, the placing of Native affairs more and more under the control of representative institutions in which the Natives had no share, was the best means of preventing these difficulties with the Natives. That
 1107
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, the question which has just been put by the right hon. Gentleman spoils, I am sorry to say, both the spirit and character of a very excellent speech. That question is nothing more or less than this—whether, Parliament
 1082 1083 1084 1085
 MR. HORSMAN : I must again re-mind my hon. Friend, when he tells us what he has sworn, that he has sworn nothing but what I have myself sworn, and therefore I cannot intend to throw any imputation upon him. But when he puts in a word which is very significant, and says, "I meant that the Pope has no legal jurisdiction," I must remind him of this, that we call upon Roman Catholics to swear "in the plain but ordinary sense of the word, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." And I may add that this is a difficulty which I myself have often felt. I know what I
 1086 1087
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, What is the understanding between the Home Government and Colonics possessing Representative Institutions as to the defence of those Colonies in the event of any future war? This was a subject of great importance, and he hoped he should obtain a satisfactory answer, for he found that the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope had persuaded or compelled the Kaffirs to occupy and colonize some territory on the other side of the River Kei. This was an act totally unconnected with the Colonial Legislature—it was not their policy and they had nothing to do with it. In reply to a Question he asked the right hon. Gentleman last night, he said that the responsibility of defending the Capo Colony had fallen on this country, and that the colony contributed very little to the expenses of that defence. The light hon. Gentleman also said that the Governor in offering a settlement to the Kaffirs was acting under instructions from homo, and that it involved no complications and no possibilities likely to lead to war. He was glad to hoar that, but some of the colonists were of a different opinion—they thought it would lead to war, and some of them were no doubt anxious it should. But the policy of this country with regard to the colonies ought to be such as would throw all the responsibility of such complications upon the Colonial Legislature, which held to the Queen only a nominal allegiance, and did not acknowledge the control of this House. They must all recollect that they already had had several disastrous affairs in the Cape Colony, and that the last Kaffir war was exceedingly burdensome to this country, was conducted
 1106
 COLONEL FRENCH  inquired whether, in the event of the Motion for the adjournment of the House being agreed to, the noble Lord at the head of the Government would undertake to keep a House during the remainder of the night, as there were several very important Motions on the Notice Paper?
 MR. BEECROFT  said, that he believed that hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House agreed that the present law of bankruptcy was most unsatisfactory. In the Session of 1860 the Government introduced a comprehensive measure for the reform of the law of bankruptcy. Its principle met with general approval; but, though opposed by no one, it did not reach the Upper House. When the House met, the year after, they all supposed that a Bill which had met with so much support would be among the first to he introduced at the commencement of the new Session, and that all parties would unite in perfecting its details. They were all disappointed when they found that the Consolidated Bill was abandoned, and a sort of patchwork Amendment Bill substituted for it. They found, however, that they had Hobson's choice—that or none. That Bill passed with some Amendments. It repealed part of the old law, and altered other parts; amended some clauses, and left others untouched. No course could be taken more likely to lead to confusion and difference of decision; and he heard from those engaged in the administration of it that the law was thrown into such a state of inextricable confusion that some parts of it were really rendered very difficult of interpretation. He scarcely need say that the commercial community was very much dissatisfied with the present law and practice of bankruptcy. A very strong feeling of dissatisfaction generally prevailed, and a thorough change in the entire system was loudly called for; indeed, there were few questions affecting the trading classes of greater importance. He might say that the Leeds Chamber of Commerce was against any attempt merely to amend the law, or any change which would leave the winding up of insolvent estates in the hands of any court or body of officials whatever, and was as decidedly in favour of leaving such winding-up in the hands of the creditors; and that no change would be satisfactory or prevent further agitation of the question which did not altogether take out of the hands of officials the winding-up of bankrupt estates, and transfer it to the creditors themselves, as was the case in Scotland. In fact, what the Leeds Chamber of Commerce really wanted was, that
 1113
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that the mercantile community would receive the statement just made with great satisfaction. He hoped that a measure would be prepared ready for the energies of the new Parliament, and if this were so, then their thanks, which were now due to the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Moffatt), would be transferred to the Government. He was sure that the appeal of the Attorney General to the commercial classes would be fully answered, and that the question would be amply discussed by them before the next Session. He agreed that the present system must be entirely re-cast, and he believed that the trading community would be glad to learn that it would not be attempted to patch up the present system, I but that a new one would be introduced to; remedy abuses that were now a disgrace to legislation.
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE : As some misapprehension was caused by the answer of the noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) the other night, to a question put by the hon. Member for Radnorshire (Sir John Walsh) I wish to ask, Whether the communication which the noble Lord said had been received from the United States Government, with respect to the losses caused by the  Alabama Alabama
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, it would be in the recollection of the House that at the end of last Session it was resolved by the House that a Court of Referees should be appointed for the investigation of Private Bills before those Bills went to a Select Committee. That step had been taken as an experiment, and they had now got so far into the present Session that they were called on to decide whether the system should be made permanent, submitted to further trial, or abolished. He therefore begged to move that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Court of Referees on Private Bills.
 MR. BASS  thanked the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Moffatt) for the constancy which he had displayed in bringing the state of our bankruptcy law under the notice of the House. The question was one which was at the present moment of the greatest interest to the mercantile community. Of course it would be impossible to carry a Bill with respect to it in the present Session; but then the Lord Chancellor, who was as familiar with the subject as with his morning and evening prayers, might without the slightest effort produce a measure which might be laid on the table of the House before the dissolution, and considered by the country during the recess. He hoped, he might add, that the Attorney General would, before the
 1112
 MR. TREHERNE  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether there is any general system of audit for the Foreign Office; whether the Accounts are audited every year; when they were last audited; and whether the Auditor is a person of official responsibility, and acting under official authority?
 MR. W. E. FORSTER : Is it not possible, in a case of such considerable importance, for the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs or some other person on behalf of the Government to give a more explicit answer to the Question which has been put by the hon. Member, because the fact is one of very considerable importance. There seems to be an impression abroad—I believe an unfounded impression—that since the accession of President Johnson claims with regard to the  Alabama Alabama
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was extremely puzzled to know what Dr. Manning's appointment, the sermons which he had preached, or the extension of monastic institutions, had to do with the repeal of the oath under discussion; and equally at a loss to understand what argument had been adduced which could induce a hundred hon. Gentlemen on the other side of the House—twelve of whom were Members of the late Government, and many of whom were Irish representatives—to go out into the lobby in opposition to a measure of the commonest decency and justice. It would be illiberal and unjust to attribute the opposition to the Bill to anything resembling the spirit of the Pharisee; to a desire for superiority of caste; to a feeling of great thankfulness to Providence that we were not as other men are, that we do not require special oaths to enforce our loyalty;
 1069 Hansard 1070 1071 1072 status 1073 1074
 MR. MONSELL  said, that he could not accept the proposal of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington).
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, a Commission, consisting of three persons possessing engineering and chymical knowledge, had been appointed to make inquiries in certain districts in which the principal manufactures were carried on upon the subject intimated by the noble Lord. He had no objection to produce a copy of the Commission and also a copy of the Letter of Instruction addressed to the Commissioners, indicating the basis upon which their inquiry should be carried on. It was impossible to say how soon these inquiries would be concluded,
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  assured the noble Lord that he had not referred to the motives which influenced his lamented brother or himself from any knowledge of his own. He merely repeated the statement which had been made by the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for the Home Department.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, before we go to a division on this Motion, I should be glad, with the indulgence of the House, to state very briefly the grounds on which I for one shall give my vote. And first, I desire to clear the case from some topics introduced into it by the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Hors-man), which seem to me to be irrelevant.
 1088 "I do further declare that it is not an article of my faith, and that I do renounce, reject, and abjure the opinion that Princes ex-communicated or deprived by the Pope, or any other authority of the See of Rome, may be deposed or murdered by their subjects, or by any person whatsoever." 1089 "And I do solemnly in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare, that I do make this declaration, and every part thereof, in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws. And I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in this Kingdom." 1090 the Ministerial side. 1091 1092 "I have a clear conviction that Catholic Members, however strong may be their impression as to its expediency, ought not to vote so long as a solemn abjuration of all intention to subvert the Church Establishment, and a solemn promise not to exercise any privilege to which they are or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion, continue to be among the conditions on which they are admitted to seats in Parliament. The faith plighted by those words has been hitherto preserved inviolate.… Having made that abjuration they are committed by it to a loyal acquiescence in the retention by the Protestant Episcopal Church of a temporal provision adequate to secure its efficiency and the maintenance of its Bishops and clergy in competence and honour." 1093 "Have you any reason to think that in the minds of any part of the Roman Catholic clergy there exists any hope or any wish to interfere with the temporal possessions of the Established Church?" "Not the least; there is no wish on the part of the Roman Catholic clergy to disturb the present Establishment, or to partake of any part of the wealth it enjoys. Question—Nor any objection to give the most full and entire assurance on that subject by any declaration that may be required of them? Not the least." "It is also said that the Roman Catholics were parties to the oath of 1829, and that, therefore, they have no right to quarrel with its details. My Lords, there are many of the Roman Catholics who strongly deny this statement; they say they were not in Parliament at the time, and therefore were no parties to the oath. I must candidly acknowledge that I differ from those Roman Catholics in that view, and must confess that we were parties, by consent at least, to that oath. That oath received the sanction of the Catholic prelates; that oath received the sanction of the great leader of emancipation—Mr. O'Connell. That oath was gladly taken by us at the time of the Emancipation Act, and that oath has been taken by us ever since; and though here and there some Members may he found who had felt some doubt as to the interpretation of some passages in it when questions affecting the Established Church had come before Parliament, yet, on the whole, that oath had been no bar to the full discharge of our Parliamentary and other public duties." 1094 in futuro, 1095 1096
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, whatever may be thought of the merits of the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, there can be no doubt that the Bill which he has introduced involves a principle of the greatest importance, affecting the strongest feelings and deepest convictions of the population of this country. It is, moreover, a proposition which cannot be got rid of by hard words; and I, therefore, regret the tone which the hon. Gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. Gregory) has adopted, and will endeavour to address myself to the question before us in a different spirit. I wish to state the course which I think it desirable to take upon this question as it stands, and upon the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire. Let me say that I deeply regret the time and manner in which this Bill comes before us. It is a measure virtually to repeal one of the arrangements which were adopted in 1829 as a security for our Protestant institutions, to be adopted simultaneously with the great measure of Catholic Emancipation. And I will say further, that there is imminent danger that the attempt now made to get rid of a portion of these securities will revive the angry feelings between Roman Catholics and Protestants, which are at all times to be deprecated, but never more so than at the present time. If we are to have a discussion on the Roman Catholic oath forced upon us, it ought to be introduced at a moment when it can be discussed with the utmost calmness and the greatest fairness; and totally free from any of those considerations that have got mixed up with it, and with no feeling and no desire but to do right and justice to Roman Catholics on the one hand and Protestants on the other. In the next place it appears to me that if this measure is introduced at all, it ought to be as a measure promoted by Her Majesty's Government. Whether the change proposed be right or wrong, it is a most important change in a constitutional arrangement of this country. Such a measure ought not to be in the hands of a private Member, but should be introduced with the sanction of the Government, and at a moment when the House is fully at liberty to discuss it, not only calmly, but in the deliberate manner and with that ample measure of time
 1075 1076 1077 "Sir,—The  Irish Times 1078 1079 "And I do further declare, that is is not an article of my faith, and that I do renounce, reject, and abjure the opinion that Princes excommunicated or deprived by the Pope, or any other authority of the See of Rome, may be deposed or murdered by their subjects, or by any person whatsoever." "And I do declare, that I do not believe that the Pope of Rome, or any other foreign Prince, Prelate, Person, State, or Potentate hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, power, superiority, or pre-eminence, directly, or indirectly, within this realm;" "That no foreign Prince, &c, hath or ought to have any temporal or civil jurisdiction, power, superiority, or pre-eminence, directly or indirectly, within this realm. And I make this declaration upon the true faith of a Christian." "And I do solemnly, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare, that I do make this declaration, and every part thereof, in the plain and ordinary sense of the words of this oath, without any evasion, equivocation, or mental reservation whatsoever." 1080 "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm as established by the laws; and I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in this Kingdom." "The Roman Catholic repeated the assurance that he would acquiesce in the settlement of property which had taken place after the restoration of Charles II. He thought the noble Lord had acted wisely in not disturbing the Roman Catholic oath in the Act of 1829."—[3  Hansard, 1081
 SIR PERCY BURRELL , who rose amid loud cries for a Division, hoped the House would allow him to make a single observation, as he could not give a silent vote on this question. Roman Catholics had been admitted to seats in that House on well-understood conditions, and if the spirit of those conditions were not kept the Parliament of this nation would, no doubt, feel it to be its duty to exclude them.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I can only repeat what I said on a former occasion—that communications have been going on between the two Governments for a considerable time past with regard to the captures made by the  Alabama 1108
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am unable to answer off-hand the question of the noble Lord.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it be his intention to bring for-
 1120
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, What information he can give the House concerning the War in Bhootan?
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether his attention has been drawn to a statement which has lately appeared in the newspapers with reference to casualties which befel a detachment of Royal Artillery ordered on the 11th of April last to set out on a march from Mhow to Kirkee, and whether he has received any Report on the subject?
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he wished to inquire what was the nature of the work done by the West India Belief Commission.
 MR. PEEL  said, many years ago relief was given partly in Jamaica and partly in other West India Islands, and the duty of this Commission was to recover the annual instalments in respect of the advances then made. Every year the loan that had been made was in course of re-payment.
 SIR. JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he wished to ask upon what principle the Commission of Lunacy was to be carried on. It consisted of several paid and unpaid Commissioners—there being no less than six for England, whereas there were only two paid and two unpaid Commissioners for Scotland, and the two paid Commissioners received inferior salaries. Those who had to transact business with the Lunacy Board complained of the great delays in the transaction of business, and the almost absurd regulations they issued from time to time with regard to pauper lunatic asylums in the country. In the county which he had the honour to represent (Lincolnshire), it was found necessary to enlarge the building, and plans were drawn and contracts made for that purpose, but the Board would not give their assent to them because the magistrates would not undertake to purchase a large quantity of farming land on which to employ the lunatics, and when they came to inquire into the matter it was found that not one in fifty of the lunatics was capable of being so employed, and that those who were would require a great amount of surveillance. The Commissioners, in the exercise of their discretion, consequently prevented the alterations from being carried out for a period of two years, and during that time the surplus lunatics had to be sent to other county lunatic asylums at a distance from their friends.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, certain statutable visits were made to asylums by paid visitors, generally professional men. There had been frequent discussions between the Commissioners and magistrates of counties on the subject of want of ground in connection with the asylums. He thought the former were right in requiring, in accordance with the intention of the Act of Parliament, that there should be ground sufficient to allow of the patients being exercised.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that in the case he had referred to the ground was not for exercise, but for the employment of the patients, and was more than could be used in agricultural operations by manual labour. There had been already thirty or forty acres of land attached to the asylum.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he meant by exercise employment at agricultural pursuits as followed at Hanwell, which had been found to contribute greatly to the improvement of the patients.
 COLONEL SYKES  expressed his opinion that the public, as well as the patients, were much indebted to the Commissioners.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he did not see why such a charge should fall on the Consolidated Fund. Why should it not be defrayed by a rate or by tolls?
 MR. PEEL  said, that the chief duty of the superintendent who was appointed under an Act of Parliament for improving the roads in South Wales, was to secure the re-payment of the large advances—£250,000—of the Government for their works. The loan would probably be repaid in a few years, and of course the present Vote would not then be required.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that the present system of expenditure would not last fifteen years longer. Six counties would not have agreed in the appointment of an efficient officer, but the Government had made a satisfactory appointment.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask whether the Government proposed to take any step in consequence of the remarks of the Registrar General
 1138
 MR. PEEL  said, that the remarks to which the hon. Member referred were directed principally to the practice of obliging Members to contribute to the expenses of feasts, and to the difficulties which persons who paid their money through agents experienced in recovering payment of the sums to which they became entitled, and in taking proceedings against those who misapplied the money entrusted to them. No step could be taken this Session, but he thought that an inquiry on the subject might usefully take place in another Session.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought the time had arrived when some inquiry should be made into this item. In the beginning of the present century, when information was required at all hazards, no doubt such a service might have been necessary; but in these days of peace, when we lived in an atmosphere of intelligence, and when our foreign policy had experienced such alteration, some inquiry ought to be made into the subject, especially as the sum demanded was the identical amount which had been asked for this purpose for years—namely, £32,000. He did not know how Government considered themselves justified in paying that large sum for espionage every year, nor was he aware how otherwise they could employ it except on matters connected with the forthcoming election, which of course the House would not sanction. Of course, he anticipated that the reply to his question would be that the sum was disbursed in satisfying old claims upon the Government for services rendered in bygone times; but in that case the amount should decrease, and should not remain at one fixed sum. He thought Government ought
 1139
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the solemn declaration required to be made by each Secretary of State that the money was properly expended effectually guarded against the supposed misapplication of the money as suggested by the hon. Gentleman for election purposes, unless he were prepared to suffer the consequences which would arise from such a gross dereliction of duty. It was absolutely necessary that, whether in time of peace or of war, Government should have the money asked for at their command.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he could understand the necessity for such an expenditure in time of war, when it might be necessary to send spies into the enemy's camp, but he could not understand why so large a sum should be wanted for such a purpose in time of peace. Was the sum of £32,000 always expended, and, if not, what became of the balance? The Vote only stated that the sum "maybe" required. Of course the honour of the high authorities was unquestioned, but the money was put into the hands of persons of an inferior station, and how did the Secretary of State ascertain that it was properly expended?
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought it curious that this sum was a fixed and not a varying charge.
 MR. PEEL  said, the money was paid into the Treasury, and was only paid out as required on the declaration of the Secretary of State, who was, therefore, answerable for every farthing expended. The financial accounts showed the amounts actually expended. The balance not required was never taken out of the Treasury, and was surrendered to the Exchequer at the end of the year. Considerable sums had been thus surrendered.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, no answer whatever had been given to the questions which had been put to the Government on this subject. They had not been told which of the Secretaries of State had power to deal with the money, nor what justification there could be for such an item of expenditure. It was all very well to say that it was impossible that there could be a misappropriation of the funds, but how did they know into whose hands the money fell? Though the personal honour of the present Home Secretary (Sir George Grey) was above suspicion, this was not a matter which ought to be left to personal honour.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, this was just one of those discussions in which independent Members were bound to take part. The time had come when such an item as this ought to be got rid of altogether, unless some explanation of it were afforded by Government. No doubt the Secretaries of State were as careful as they could be in the application of the money, but there should be no such Vote upon the Estimates. The employment of secret service was something which stank in the nostrils of the people.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to ask why in the Votes the old custom of printing the days of the month and week in Latin should be preserved. It would be well that this custom should die with the present Parliament, and the days hereafter be printed in plain English.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to call attention to the cost of publishing the State Papers. He did not wish to cast any reflection upon Mr. Hertslet, whom he believed to be a meritorious officer and a man of ability, but the collection included many papers which ought not to be printed there, it was twelve or thirteen years in arrear, and the two bulky volumes which were now issued were too expensive to be accessible to the public. Among the papers published were some relating to finance and the unredeemed debt which had been already printed at the expense of the public. In fact, he believed that three-fourths of these volumes had been so printed before, and were accessible in another form. The work was said to afford the means of reference to diplomatists abroad, and persons engaged in literary pursuits; but the number of persons who wanted to refer to papers, the production of which was so long delayed, must be very limited indeed. Then, no regular system was adopted in the compilation of these papers. He did not deny that a good selection of State Papers might be exceedingly useful, but he protested against this compilation on account of its bulk, the delay in the publication, and the high price. The charge to Members of this House was 10 s., s. 1141
 MR. LAYARD  said, he thought that his hon. Friend had very much underrated the value and importance of these papers, although they might not be perfect If his hon. Friend would call at the Foreign Office upon Mr. Hertslet, who was a gentleman of great intelligence and ability, any practicable suggestion which his hon. Friend could make for the improvement of these volumes would, lie was sure, be adopted. In justice to Mr. Hertslet, however, he must state that these volumes were of great importance and were admirably edited. A complete index had now been published, and this made their contents even more accessible and more valuable. The hon. Member complained that the contents of papers presented to Parliament were re-published in these volumes, but the fact was that you wanted to be able to refer to an epitome of State Papers without being compelled to go to the library of this House. After the debate which had taken place on this subject on a former occasion letters appeared in  The Times, The Times 1142
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that in consequence of the Report of the Committee a contribution of £400 had been made from the Treasury during the last three or four years towards a very useful work called the  Parliamentary Record.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the sum of £400 was granted in one year, three or four years ago, not under the present Vote but out of the Civil Contingencies, for the purpose of purchasing a number of copies of the work mentioned in order that they might be distributed among the different Public Departments. At the end of the year reference was made to the Public Departments to know whether they wished that copies of the work should continue to be supplied, and he did not think that any Public Department expressed a desire that the work should be supplied to it. Under these circumstances the pecuniary contribution was discontinued.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the work in question had attracted the attention of many persons, and when at Vienna he learnt that Lord Bloomfield was so impressed with its value that he wrote to the Foreign Office for copies, but possibly he failed to get them owing to the stinginess of the Treasury. A Committee of some of the ablest Members of that House gave an unanimous vote in favour of the value of the work, of which any one who referred to it might easily judge. It was proposed to vote £63,000 for Parliamentary printing for both Houses, and he ventured to say that if the compendium of Parliamentary proceedings were in the hands of Members a very large part of the money might be saved to the public.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that the Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs admitted that blue-books were an annoyance, and yet here was a Vote for them of £63,000—so much waste paper. Were they to go on in this unreasonable way, refusing wise digests?
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that during 1864 waste paper had been sold in this Department to the extent of £6,139, represent-
 1143
 MR. WHITE  said, he must repeat what he had before stated, that those State Papers were not brought down to a late date, their practical utility being thus diminished. A Treaty of 1852 was not in the library in 1864. Moreover, they were occupied with a good deal of unimportant documents while many of importance were excluded. The index would show them fifty or sixty papers taken up by reference to treaties made with chieftains on the Gold Coast and other parts of the African coast, some of which were not signed and which were of infinitesimal importance in a national point of view.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  observed, that the  Parliamentary Record Parliamentary Rememhrancer,
 MR. HENEY SEYMOUR  said, he must repeat that he could not see the use of printing among the State Papers all the financial documents relating to the Budgets of 1851 and 1852, and picking out a few foreign Budgets for publication, while others equally important were omitted. The number of copies sold was very small, and that was a test of the value set on it by the public. He regretted the speech of his hon. Friend, because he had been under the impression that he recognized the necessity of improving this volume, and it was in that belief that he withdrew his Motion upon the subject. He should not now go to a division, but if he sat in another Parliament he should renew this discussion, and should not so readily accept the assurances of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs as he did on a previous occasion.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was rather surprised at the tone of his hon. Friend's observations, because what he said upon the occasion referred to he was prepared to repeat—that if his hon. Friend had any suggestions to make for the improvement of these volumes he should be very ready to consider them and if they were good adopt them. He thought that his hon. Friend had rather mistaken the use of this work.
 1144
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had referred on previous occasions to the expense incurred on the score of Parliamentary printing. Parliamentary papers poured into Members' houses to such an extent that they became an absolute nuisance. Why not have a small epitome of what papers were to come out and would be ready for perusal at the Library sent with the Votes? He objected to having tons of papers which were never opened sent to his lodgings. He had been out of town for a few weeks, and on his return, instead of being able to go to "The Derby," he had to wade through a mass of Parliamentary papers. He put away 1lb. and threw away about 2cwt. He could not sell the residue; he could not exchange them for hooks, for that would be selling them; he could not burn them, for that would be voted a nuisance. Why should these tons of paper be thrust on unwilling Members?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUERS  said, that the plan of an epitome for the purpose of diminishing the expense of printing was one worthy of sifting and examination. But it was an error to suppose that it lay with the Government in any way to limit the issue of these various papers. The House of Commons would view with jealousy any such attempt on the part of the Government. It was for the House to take the matter up, and for the Government to act in subordination to its wishes.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, that he did not know whether the Secretary of the Treasury had any idea of sending round to Members a weekly or fortnightly digest of their proceedings, but certainly a more excellent publication than the  Parliamentary Record 1145 Parliamentary Record,
 MR. PEEL  said, he did not differ with the hon. Baronet as to the value of the publication which he had mentioned. The Government purchased a certain number of copies of the work and distributed them among the various public departments. After the first year they inquired of the different offices whether they were considered of value and whether they desired to have it again, but in only two instances was any desire expressed for its continuation. Under those circumstances, it was no use for the Government to purchase 400 or 500 copies a year, which would simply have accumulated in store.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the general feeling of the Committee evidently was that this publication was very useful to Members of that House, and there was a general desire that something should be done to promote its re-issue. The Chancellor of the Exchequer himself said that when the House expressed a wish of that kind it was the duty of the Government to pay attention to it, and in this instance the House had expressed the wish—first through a Committee composed of its ablest Members, and, secondly, in the discussion of that evening. The Government ought to propose a sum in the Estimates sufficient to cover the expense of distributing it in the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, what he desired was that there should be a clear and definite responsibility in regard to these matters, and that when a Committee made a recommendation the Government should not be responsible for a Vote connected immediately with the accommodation of that House. The House vindicated to itself the regulation of its own expenditure, and he thought that this matter of the  Parliamentary Record
 LORB ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman
 1146
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the noble Lord was entirely in the wrong in saying that the House had no power in the matter. But that very day—and indeed every day—the House on the Motion of various hon. Members had ordered various documents and papers to be printed for its use, and how was the expense of printing these papers to be met? It was met by the order of the House. Things worked in a regular system. The estimate for these expenses was transmitted by the recognized officers of the House to the Treasury, and the Treasury submitted it to the House as a matter of course. The noble Lord might any day move that a certain number of copies of this book might be printed for the use of the House. Nobody at this time of day required instruction as to the power of the House to propose Votes, but there was a well understood machinery in operation by which the judgment of the House was taken as to its being furnished with all the documents it required.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the House was now discussing not the account for what had been spent, but the Estimate for what might be required in the course of the coming year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Estimate was framed by the orders of the House, and not by the Treasury, and that when so framed it was accepted by the Treasury.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that it would be much more economical and convenient if the copies of the Acts of Parliament furnished to each Petty Sessions were in the octavo instead of the quarto form, and also if the public could buy copies in the octavo form.
 MR. PEEL  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman's suggestion should be taken into consideration, but he thought the Acts were printed by the Queen's printers, and not by the Stationery Department.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that the stamps by which all the fees in this court were paid were very easily detached from vellum, and even from paper; and as they were not obliterated with the name of any officer of the court, but of the person seeking probate, they might easily be detached and used again by any person of the same name, it might be Smith or Jones, who had occasion to go into the court. Thus the Treasury would be defrauded.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he wished to call attention to the cases of the clerks in the court. When the Court was formed it was expected that the business would amount to some eighteen or twenty suits a year; but in the year after the passing of the Act they amounted to over 300, and they had sometimes been more since, but never less. The salary of the chief clerk was fixed originally at £350, of the second at £200, and the third at £120; but in 1860, at the recommendation of Sir C. Cresswell, the salary of the chief clerk was raised to £450, of the second clerk to £300, and of the third to £150. A promise was also given that after further experience of the progress of the Court, their case should again be taken into favourable consideration. Clerks in other departments in which the duties were not of so responsible a character were better remunerated. Clerks in the Probate Court were paid very differently. The principal clerk in the Probate Court had £700 a year, and the second £450. In the Personal Application department, where the work was not so heavy as in the Divorce Court, the chief clerk got £600 a year, and the second £450; and in the registry of the Admi-
 1148
 MR. PEEL  said, no application had been made on the part of the clerks in question to the Treasury for an increase of salary. Under the Act of Parliament it rested with the Judge of the Court to propose the scale of salaries which he thought ought to be paid to the clerks in it, and with the Treasury to acquiesce in the expediency of acting on the proposal or not as they deemed fit. He felt quite satisfied that the Judge of the Court of Probate and Divorce was anxious that the officers under him should receive an amount of remuneration proportionate to the duties which they had to discharge; for he had on a recent occasion made application to the Treasury with the view of obtaining an increase of the salaries of the clerks of the Court of Probate, and that application had been complied with by the addition of £1,250 to the Estimates. Should any application be made with regard to the increase of the salaries of the clerks in the Court of Divorce on the ground of their insufficiency, he should take care that that application should receive due attention.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he was satisfied with the assurance given by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to draw attention to the fact that none of the items of this Vote for Travelling Expenses, and the building and repairing of Court houses, were in Ireland charged upon the Consolidated Fund, but for the most part remained a burden upon the counties.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the corresponding Vote for Ireland was that for process servers, who were officers of the Civil Bill Courts, which had similar jurisdiction to the
 1149
 MR. SCULLY  said, that the process servers received from the Consolidated Fund £8,500, whilst the fees received and paid to the Treasury amounted to upwards of £17,000.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that if parties to suits in the county were allowed to pay otherwise than through the Courts, and if the fees were collected by stamps, the office of Treasurer would become unnecessary, and a saving of £27,000 a year would be effected. In Ireland there were no County Court Treasurers.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that the office of Law Adviser of Dublin Castle should be abolished. At present that functionary was appealed to by magistrates whenever a difficult point was raised before them, and the decision of that learned voice became practically the law. Magistrates ought to be left to consult their own law advisers. With respect to Crown Solicitors, the Devon Commission had recommended that those officers should be appointed one to each county where they should reside. At present, in some cases there was only one Crown Solicitor to two or even three counties. The Government had to some extent carried out the recommendation, and he hoped that as vacancies arose they would still further act upon it.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to ask how the sum was made up?
 MR. PEEL  said, the sum taken on account was deducted from this Vote. It was to be remembered that a sum of £6,144 8 s. d.
 MR. SCULLY  pointed out that the Land Registry Court of England cost nearly as much as the Landed Estates Court of Ireland. A very small amount of business was done in the former, and a great deal in the latter which brought a large revenue to the Government.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that while the total expenditure for law and justice in Great Britain amounted only to £ 1,110,000,
 1151
 MR. PEEL  said, in answer to the hon. Member (Mr. Scully), that the Judges of the Landed Estates Court were charged on the Consolidated Fund, and were not charged in this Vote, though on the Vote for the Land Registry Court of England the chief officers were charged.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that under the head of law and justice in Ireland the entire constabulary force was charged.
 MR. SCULLY  said, that the  ad valorem
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, it was a bad sign to see so much charged for the police force in Ireland. It only required £370,000 a year to keep them in order in Scotland.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished to ask how much it took to keep Scotland in order when its inhabitants were fighting on the hill sides to establish the Presbyterian religion?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he had to complain that the police of Ireland considered themselves a military force, and they looked upon the ordinary employment of thief-catching as being too mean an occupation. He would, therefore, suggest the advisability of attaching to that force a small body of detective officers similar to those attached to the police in England.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would not offer any objection to the large amount expended on account of the police in Ireland, because he was afraid that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for that country, who took a great interest in the force, and whom he perceived in his place, might make the objection a personal matter. He objected, however, to the charge being
 1152
 MR. TORRENS  said, that it was most discouraging to gentlemen of great integrity who had spent their lives in the Irish police force, and had performed their duty to the best of their power, to see themselves superseded by military men who could not possibly have acquired the necessary experience. As an instance, he would advert to the appointment to the head of that force of Colonel Wood, a distinguished officer, who had been promoted to his present rank from that of Adjutant General at Aldershot. Other distinguished officers had also, he believed, been appointed to most important situations in that force.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to ask a question relative to this Vote. No one could read the newspapers without seeing that many persons who were taken up insensible and supposed to be drunk were next morning found dead in the police cells, and a very general feeling prevailed on the part of the public that if there was a more strict supervision of these cases when the persons were
 1153
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, this Vote was not at all connected with the metropolitan prisons. It had reference only to the duties of Inspectors of borough prisons throughout the country. With regard to the subject of police cells he had made inquiries into the subject and he should be glad to place before the hon. Baronet such information as he seemed to require with respect to the steps which had been taken in order to effect the object he had in view.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the state of the House when this important Vote came on for discussion might no doubt be explained by reference to the fact that the subject of education had during the present Session been submitted to the consideration of a Committee of the House, and that Committee was now considering the question how far it was possible to relax the conditions on which the public grants were administered. It was also considering the constitution of the department of education, and how far the Denominational
 1154 s. d. 1155 s. d. s., s. d. 1156 1157 s. d. s. d. s. s. 1158 1159 s. s., 1160
 MR. SELWYN  said, those hon. Members who had the good fortune of hearing the able and eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Vice President of the Council of Education must have been struck by one strange omission from his statement relating to a subject which he (Mr. Selwyn) believed, above all others, was at this time the most interesting in connection with this important question. He meant the question raised by the proceedings of the Committee of Council with respect to what was called the "conscience clause," and to the innovations introduced, contrary to the original practice—innovations which, he contended, were also contrary to the express terms of the regulations under which they acted in respect to grants to schools in connection with the National Society.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : I did intend to say that that question was at present under the consideration of the Committee.
 MR. SELWYN  said, he was glad to hear that there was some prospect of a solution of that question. He wished the right hon. Gentleman had gone further, and said that he entertained a sanguine hope of a satisfactory conclusion being arrived at. He (Mr. Selwyn) would carefully abstain from saying a word calculated though in the slightest degree to embitter the irritation that had already existed upon this point. The matter, however, being still in an unsatisfactory state, he thought that this Vote ought not to pass without a protest against the proceedings of the Committee of Council. It appeared to him that their proceedings were open to two objections. One was a constitutional one, that the Committee of Council, who were bound to proceed under the authority of Parliament had, without any notice to or sanction of the House, introduced a very important alteration affecting the principles of the Revised Code, which Code had been settled by Parliament. That was an objection of a constitutional character. Now, he asked the right hon. Gentleman, in the interest of amicable feeling, to pause in any further progress in those innovations until the difficulty occasioned by them was solved. Those innovations were contrary to the constitutional principles under which the Revised Code was established. Money was voted by Parliament on the faith that those who dispensed it would act according to the
 1161 1162
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he could assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that the Committee of Council of Education did exercise a large discretion with respect to the space of open ground required for schools. The space required by the Revised Code was 1,200 square yards, but schools had been allowed to be built on a fourth of that quantity. The circumstances of each case were always taken into consideration, and ample allowances were made in cases where there were difficulties in the way of obtaining an enlargement of the site. With respect to the conscience clause, he would only say that it was still under the anxious consideration of the Committee of the House then sitting. As to extending what the hon. and learned Gentleman called the intervention of the Committee of Privy
 1163
 MR. EDMUND POTTER  said, that he would like to give a few items to show how recklessly the public money had been spent over this museum. There was, for instance, a majolica plate bought at Stowe for £5, which after passing through several hands was eventually purchased for the Kensington Museum for £200. He found that this article was one of the very few which had been copied, but although very successfully done, and offered at 35s., not half-a-dozen copies were sold. Then there was an illuminated missal for which £700 was given, which was interesting enough as a curiosity, but certainly could not be said to be worth any such sum for useful purposes. The establishment at South Kensington was kept up with the object of improving the taste and art knowledge of the community, with special reference to manufactures. But within the last few years a great change had taken place in the opinion of the manufacturers. More support had been given by the manufacturers to the schools of art in 1842 than was extended to them now. At the former period the subscriptions amounted to £2,000 or £3,000 a year, while in 1863 the total sum subscribed was £2,000, of which not more than £1,000 came from the manufacturers. They felt that the expenditure at South Kensington was very extravagant, much of it useless, and that some means ought to be taken to reduce it. He should, however, defer further observations on this point till he came to move his Amendment for the reduction of the item of £36,500 for schools of science and art by £1,000.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, as this was the first item on the vote it was the one referred to by the hon. Member, he had better move his Amendment now, and that
 1165
 MR. DILLWYN  having acceded to this arrangement.
 MR. EDMUND POTTER  said, that he would adopt the suggestion. These schools had been established for the purpose of teaching design, and it had been avowed that they were carried on for the advantage of the artisan class. They were extravagantly conducted, cost £10,000, and would accommodate about 500 pupils. The school at South Kensington had been established for the purpose of training masters to teach art throughout the country. In the present Estimates were the following items:—Maintenance of students sent from local schools, £2,500; salaries of masters, £1,000; lecturers and occasional professional assistance, £500; attendants, £350; living models and materials, &c, £250=£4,600. The total average number of scholars was 460. Out of the number of students instructed at South Kensington, not one-fourth were of the artisan class, the remainder were children of the better classes, including sons and daughters of Members of that House. The artisan class were charged a fee of from £1 to £1 5 s. 1166
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the expenditure at South Kensington had increased from £120,000 to £160,000 during the period mentioned by the hon. Member, as the larger portion of the increased Vote was taken for institutions in Dublin and Edinburgh, the Geological Museum in London, and for half-a-dozen other institutions besides the South Kensington Museum. Although the question now before them was the Amendment of the hon. Member for Carlisle (Mr. Potter), yet as some prejudice might have been raised in the minds of the Committee by the statements of the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), he would in the first place endeavour to remove it. He did not deny the statement that there was a considerable increase in the amount of this Vote for the present year, amounting in the whole to £26,000; but that additional sum was required for objects external to the South Kensington Museum. In the first place there was an item of £12,000 which had been transferred from the Board of Works to this Vote for furniture, fittings, &c, including £1,693 for rent of the houses
 1167 1168 1169 nuclei
 MR. BENTTNCK  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman had, to use a homely phrase, let the eat out of the bag sooner than it was intended to be liberated, for he had told the House that what he called the Brompton Boilers were to form the nucleus of a new museum. Now, as he (Mr. Bentinck) understood the matter the House of Commons did not intend the Brompton boilers to become the nucleus of a new museum, and were not prepared
 1170
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the hon. Gentleman had fallen into a mistake in supposing he (Mr. H. A. Bruce) had said that the Brompton Boilers were intended to be the nucleus of a new museum. What he had said was, that they were to be removed, and, with the consent of the Treasury, they had been offered to different parts of the metropolis to form the nucleus of self-supporting museums. Offers had come from various localities, and much more good would arise from this disposal of them than by selling them at the price of old iron. With respect to the charge for hiring specimens, he had already said the objects in these collections had a peculiar and conventional value; and the policy of the department had been, when articles of great importance were offered to them, to receive these articles on loan, paying a certain percentage on them for their use, and at the end of the period to buy them or not as they thought proper.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, that in alluding to the Brompton Boilers he merely used the terms generally as applicable to Kensington. What he objected to was not
 1171
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he thought it would be very advantageous to the working classes if buildings could be erected at such convenient distances from their localities as would enable them to visit them with their wives and children. The working classes did not go to South Kensington, and the fear was that an intention existed to concentrate the articles at a place where they would be inaccessible to the artisans. If an inquiry were instituted as to the class of persons visiting South Kensington, either in the day time or in the evening, he believed they would be found to be a different class from what was understood by the term artisan. The feeling of the artisans was that objects of art should not be deposited in places which were almost inaccessible to the working classes.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, that when the term Brompton Boilers was used it was meant to refer to the whole of the museum at South Kensington, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would give a distinct assurance as to what the Government meant to do with South Kensington, and whether it was to be made the nucleus of a new museum. This year there was a Vote of £24,000 for permanent buildings, which followed hard on a Vote last year of £24,000 for the same purpose. Judging by the plans there was no building worth the money. He objected to this continuous expenditure, particularly when he saw an item for decoration. There was nothing at this museum which would do the architecture of the country any credit. The best architects were not consulted, but the direction was confided to a clique of amateurs, who, having considerable sums of money at their disposal, indulged in all sorts of caprices. Instead of promoting the study of the works of the best English masters, of Inigo Jones, of Sir C. Wren, and other illustrious English architects, on one side you saw a bit of Saracenic, on another a bit of Lombard—"hodge-podge" perfectly ludicrous. They did not teach their pupils architecture on any kind of principle, and the system could not produce any other result but confusion in the minds of the students, cer-
 1172
 MR. COX  said, he was sorry to find that the Government year after year gave indications—they never spoke out upon the subject—that it was their intention to remove the British Museum to South Kensington, The right hon. Gentleman, the Vice President of the Committee of Council, talked of South Kensington being the centre of the population of the metropolis, but the fact was that nineteen-twentieths of the population lived at a distance of more than two or three miles from the Brompton Boilers, which might be very convenient for the upper Ten Thousand, but which was not by any means so accessible to the great mass of the artisans of London, who resided at Clerkenwell, Mile End, and Bethnal Green, as Bloomsbury was. He should therefore vote for the proposed reduction of the Vote, for he believed that the attendance of the working classes at South Kensington to which the right hon. Gentleman alluded was somewhat like those theatrical representations in which twenty or thirty men were made to pass in and out so as to wear the appearance of a considerable body. Indeed, it would seem as if a lot of people were kept at South Kensington to walk in at one door and out at another; but he defied any reasonable man who had, visited the place to say that he had seen there the working classes in anything like large numbers. The fact was they could not afford to lose the half-day's labour which it would be necessary to sacrifice for the purpose, and it was a sham and a pretence to contend that the contrary was the case; whereas thousands went to the British Museum whenever a holiday occurred. The constituents of the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard) for instance, would, he had no doubt, prefer going to the latter place, and he should not be surprised if he had received petitions from them praying that it might be opened in the evenings, for there they would be sure to find something better worth seeing than warming-pans and hurdy-gurdies. In fact they were asked year after year to pass Votes for South Kensington in opposition to the British Museum. He hoped the Government would consent to open the British Mu-
 1173
 MR. WYLD  said, he thought the money which was laid out on South Kensington was a most judicious expenditure, and was surprised to hear his hon. Friend, who professed to be the representative of the working classes, object to it. It had been the policy of the Government for some time past to endeavour to improve the education of our artisans, and when it was borne in mind that the products of their industry were open to the competition of the whole world that policy must be admitted to be a wise one. We could not afford to stand still in such a cause; and if we meant to continue to educate the artisan, the best way to do so was to give him access, as at South Kensington, to objects worthy of imitation.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he regretted that the Government had not divided the Vote into two parts, inasmuch as the question of schools of art was one distinct from that of the South Kensington Museum. He was aware that schools of art had rendered great service, and he did not grudge the expenditure on their account, while he at the same time thought that the provinces had some grounds for objecting to the very large outlay on them in the metropolis in which they did not share. The principle of having, as had been said, the daughter of a duchess in the same class with a less elevated member of the community was one which he was very glad to see adopted, and he did not therefore wish that the Vote should be reduced. As to South Kensington, he was of opinion that the Government would act judiciously if they were to lay their plans with regard to it fully before the House. He quite agreed that the new buildings were very ornamental and did credit to those who designed them, but he thought the Government would do well to state what the total cost would be. With regard to the articles in the museum, he had heard gentlemen regret their distribution, and perhaps they had not been judiciously distributed; but he had no doubt that the influence of high art generally, when exhibited, extended to manufacturers generally, and that the exhibition spoken of had been extended judiciously.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he rose as a metropolitan Member to protest against the low level to which the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Cox) sought to reduce his constituents, who, he was sure, would
 1174
 MR. COX : I objected to the removal of the British Museum to Kensington.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that was an object which nobody had in view. He had never heard a word about it. There had been an idea of removing the Natural History collection from the British Museum to Kensington, but not the library or the works of art or antiquity. The objects of the two collections were wholly distinct. The British Museum was a collection of ancient art and archaeology, while the Kensington Museum was a collection of works of applied art as models for imitation and for instruction. The hon. Member for Bodmin (Mr. Wyld) had rightly stated the influence which that collection had already exercised, and no one could doubt the great improvement which of late had been made in the application of artistic taste to glass, china, and other articles of manufacture, and that improvement which had contributed so much to the extension of our trade in these articles was mainly attributable to the influence of the Kensington Museum. For a Member for a metropolitan constituency to talk contemptuously of Kensington Museum was a thing he was ashamed of. Public Museums and collections of art were a boast of every civilized community, and he was ashamed to hear such things said as the hon. Member for Finsbury had said, for there was not a country in Europe which had not declared its appreciation of our art institutions in general, and particularly of the great Museum at South Kensington. There was no collection of the kind in Europe which could be compared to it. Neither in Paris nor Berlin was there so instructive an exhibition as that at South Kensington. He did not mean to say that there were not at Kensington objects which ought not to be there; still, Kensington had proved to be an immense benefit to the country, and the country ought to be proud of it. When metropolitan Members spoke of hurdy-gurdies and
 1175
 MR. SCULLY  said, that an Irish row in that House was not now a frequent occurence, and this was the first time he had known a metropolitan row. It was very refreshing to hear metropolitan Members conplimenting each other as had been done in this discussion; but, looking on from a disinterested distance, he could not but think this was an enormous Vote to ask for, to be spent almost entirely on the neighbourhood of the upper Ten Thousand of Kensington. If the Vote of £150,000 was to educate mechanics in art why was not the Museum placed in the neighbourhood of the mechanics. He knew London tolerably well, and if he were to seek for a place which would be most convenient for mechanics the last place he should think of would be Kensington. Everybody knew that Kensington was chosen for other reasons than for its convenience to mechanics. [Mr. Cox: It was to get away from them.] Very likely that was so, but he objected to this museum that it was conducted upon a most extravagant scale, and the expense was continually increasing. He should be sorry to see specimens removed from the British Museum to that of Kensington. Members of Parliament sometimes received complimentary tickets for private views of new collections, and he had received one yesterday—he did not know whether in anticipation of this discussion—but he thought it would be better not to send these tickets at such times. While small sums were begrudged to Ireland tens of thousands were lavished on Kensington. He thought the item so extrava-
 1176
 MR. WHITE  said, he would mention, as to South Kensington, that he had received a ticket for the exhibition of miniatures. It was a most admirable collection, and it did his heart good to see some miniatures of Oliver Cromwell, which showed how grossly he had been handled by some modern artists. There was, however, no indication of the names of the originals, and on inquiring for the catalogue he was told it was 5 s. dilettanti.
 MR. COX  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Layard) was ashamed of him, but he was quite as much ashamed that there should be a metropolitan Member who could talk of South Kensington being the centre of the artisan population. [Mr. LAYARD: No!] He begged his hon. Friend's pardon; he used the very words. He was ashamed of his hon. Friend for advocating the taking of this museum from the artisan population, and placing it among the higher classes.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he had never used the words "centre of the population" at all.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would remind hon. Members that a Committee sat in 1860 to consider this subject, and that it was conclusively proved before them that the specimens of art acquired by the South Kensington Museum had been of the greatest service to the taste and trade of the country. The purchase of these objects of mediaeval art had added to the credit as well as the resources of the country. Since its foundation a striking increase had taken place in the value of our plate, our jewellery, our porcelain, and other articles
 1177 1178 1179
 MR. EDMUND POTTER  said, he would not have pressed his Motion if he did not think that by carrying it the institution itself would benefit. The art teaching at South Kensington was not in the interest of the artisan class, and this was the object the Committee had in view. The museum did not contain specimens of staple articles, but purely ornamental: and the total number who had been educated there in twelve years was 2,000. He also thought it a great error to re-erect the "Brompton Boilers" anywhere, and considered it would be much cheaper to construct buildings afresh.
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he was astonished that he should have been charged with a want of candour in the remarks he had made on the Kensington Museum. It was the House of Commons that had been treated by the Government with a want of candour throughout the whole history of Kensington Museum. He strongly objected to the frittering away of the national collections upon that establishment. The Government had got the Kensington property by stealth, and it had grown by fraud. The Government had tried to remove the National Gallery
 1180
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he thought that the proposition of the Government to take this large sum of money, over the expenditure of which the House would have no control, would tend to the same result as that which the House determined against two years ago. The House refused then to consent to the establishment of a second British Museum at South Kensington. He hoped that the Committee would support the Amendment which had been moved.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, that they were now voting £71,545 for South Kensing-sington Museum, while they only voted £100,000 for the British Museum. This, of itself, showed the necessity of a reduction in the Vote. He, therefore, hoped if Kensington was to be kept up as an old curiosity shop, not more than £40,000 would be spent upon it.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he repudiated the responsibility which the Government would wish to throw upon the Committee of 1860 of recommending permanent buildings at South Kensington. Captain Fowke, Mr. Cole, and others were examined before that Committee, and plans were shown to it, but they were not adopted.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the Committee recommended that the collections should be brought into one place and under one building. The plans of that building were produced and submitted to the Committee, The hon. Member (Mr. G. C. Bentinck) was, however, right in saying that the Committee had expressed no opinion on the plan of the building.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that he believed that certain charitable associations in Ireland had been endeavouring to raise money for charitable objects in that country by means of tickets which, in the eye of the law, bore the character of lottery tickets; and, unless the transactions were legalized under the Art Unions Act they would in his opinion certainly be illegal. The practices described in the question of the hon. Member seemed to be of an illegal character, and such as, speaking generally, would subject the perpetrators to penalties. To enable the Government to judge whether the evidence was sufficient for the purposes of prosecution it would be necessary that charges should be made, and that those charges should be supported by proper evidence.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought it likely that this conversation might lead to the solution of some difficulties that might exist in the matter. He was quite sure that the persons exercising the trust placed in the hands of the English Commission, who had given great satisfaction to the people of this country, could hardly have intended to lay down such a rule as that referred to. It was quite evident what might be considered suitable for Cornwall would not answer for the Orkneys at all. The plan expected to be followed must be of an elastic character, so as to suit all persons and the peculiarity of the locality. The buildings should be, in the first place, needed, and the fact of their creating a charge upon the remainder-man should be a matter of consideration in respect to them. The buildings to be erected should be of a useful and substantial character. In his own county stone buildings had been raised, he believed, under the sanction of the Commissioners. It appeared to him that there must be something special in the case referred to by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Waldegrave-Leslie). In some localities there might be a difficulty in getting bricks though stone might be plentiful. The right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) had, however, placed the question on a satisfactory footing. The Government had promised to inquire into the matter, and he had no doubt that the inconvenience complained of would be soon got rid of.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that as he had had something to do with the matter the House would allow him to say a few words. It was clear from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman that the money which had been spent was clean gone, and that the country need never expect to see a farthing of it again. The right hon. Gentleman was not quite correct in stating that no surveys were made, for if he remembered aright, the survey held by order of the Admiralty was handed over from the Admiralty to the Board of Trade, and by him (Mr. Henley) to the right hon. Gentleman. If, however, the House would recollect the difficulties which attended the construction of the Eddystone, Bell Rock, and other lighthouses in this country where the engineers commanded every appliance that skill and science could supply, it would not appear surprising that there had been a failure to construct a lighthouse upon rocks more exposed and presenting greater difficulties than even the Eddystone or Bell Rocks. He believed that an engineer was sent out from this country, and that in accordance with the plan of the engineers here the stone for a lighthouse ready cut was landed somewhere on the isle of Ceylon. When they had got it there it was found that when the monsoon set in a direction that rendered it possible to reach the rocks it raised so much sea that it was impossible to work. On the other hand, when the sea was calm and they might have worked, the monsoon blew in such a direction that it was impossible to get to the place where the stone was to be put. Altogether the scheme presented
 1135
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he joined with his right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) in the hope that the Government would press forward this Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought that when the Bill had reached its present stage, and when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin "University (Mr. Whiteside) had not divided against it on the second reading, it was ripe for the fullest consideration. He believed that the general feeling among the people of Ireland was that the Bill would be favourable to their interests. He was told also that several solicitors in Dublin had declared themselves in favour of the Bill.
 MR. MURPHY  said, he thought that if registration were to be introduced, it might be worth while to consider whether a separate department in the Office of Deeds might not be rendered available. He disapproved of the Bill as perpetuating the defects of the "Landed Estates Court" titles.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the House of Lords had prepared an Amendment to this Bill, to the effect that no land should be purchased for the erection of the new Courts of Justice until a determination had been come to relative to securing land to make proper approaches to that building. That was a subject for a new Act of Parliament, and it ought not to be permitted to put a stop to the present Bill. After consulting with those best acquainted with the subject he proposed that the Amendment of the Lords should be modified, so that no proceedings should be taken until a certificate in writing shall have been received by the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, signed by the major part in number of the persons appointed by Her Majesty, under the Courts of Justice Building Act, 1865, to. advise and concur with the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, with reference to the plan and arrangements of the buildings to be erected upon the lands hereby autho-
 1185
 MR. SELWY  said, he had served upon a Committee appointed to inquire into this matter, and they found that the Government Estimate for the purchase of the land and erection of the new Courts was fallacious. He thought the Amendment of the House of Lords had introduced into the Bill a wise precaution against the looseness of the Estimate. The Treasury appeared to have abandoned their duty of guarding the public purse in this matter, and he hoped, therefore, either that the Attorney General would not press the point at this late hour, or that the matter would be left as the House of Lords had put it.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to make a few remarks on the valuable statement made by his hon. Friend. It was clear to any one that to require these cottages to be built of brick where stone was abundant, and where it was not the habit and custom of the people to use bricks, was most unreasonable, and it was equally absurd to require lead to be used for gutters where iron could be had much cheaper, and was much more suitable to the country. The remedy was plain and simple—namely, that there should be in Edinburgh some authority to inspect and approve these plans, and it was perfectly clear that an architect who had given up his whole time to the peculiar mode of constructing these cottages which were most suitable for Scotland, was much better adapted to approve of the plans than any one who resided here.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the
 1122
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE , in calling the attention of the House to the difficulties connected with the draining and improvement of Landed Property in Scotland, under Drainage and Improvement Acts, from the want of an Architect or Land Surveyor in the London Office of the In-closure Commissioners who is acquainted with the Scotch system of draining and the requirements of and mode of erecting farm buildings and cottages in Scotland, said, Sir, my reason for bringing forward this matter is that there are two important companies which have extensive powers of lending money for the purpose of effecting improvements in landed property in Scotland, and that the action of these companies is impeded by their having to send up their plans to the office of the Inclosure Commissioners in London. The House has heard a great deal about landowners in England pulling down cottages, but I must say to the praise of Scotland the landowners of that country formed themselves into an association for the purpose of improving cottage accommodation as much as possible. They engaged an architect who prepared a scheme of plans and specifications which, if carried out, would have proved most suitable to the wants of the community. Those plans have been quite ignored by the principal Inclosure Commissioners in London, whose sole idea seems to be that bricks in any quantity and at any price can be procured in Scot-
 1125 "The style of building houses materially differs in England and in Scotland, and probably the peculiarity of each receives a ready explanation in the fact that the English houses are generally constructed of brick, and are of a slight build, whereas in Scotland the houses are generally built of durable stone, and will last for ages, and, from the greater thickness and strength of the walls, may be run up to any height." "If the Returns for Scotland on the matter of houses are utterly worthless, it must be understood that the blame lies not with the Scottish officials, for they were against their better convictions forced to accept the erroneous definition of a House which had been adopted in England in 1851 and re-imposed in 1861." "knowing that you as well as the other landowners in Scotland are aggrieved that the Inclo-sure Commissioners insist upon a scale of plan for their labourers' cottages considerably above what they are occupying or what can be afforded on Scotch farms in general, and thus preventing landowners from availing themselves ofthe power of borrowing money of the association; and, being deeply impressed with the vast importance of the subject, I hereby solicit you as one so well acquainted with all its bearings to lay before the Inclosure Commissioners the plans which this association, after years of the most minute and extensive inquiries and deliberation, have found to meet in the best manner all the wants of our agricultural labourers, so as to promote their social improvement; and to state how very much it would forward cottage building in Scotland were the Commissioners to authorize the borrow-
 1126 "I have been repeatedly asked to make such plans of cottages and farm-steadings, which have been abandoned in consequence of the Commissioners insisting on much greater accommodation, and a much different and stronger construction than is necessary, or can be, in many cases, afforded in Scotland. Where we have two-feet stone walls, it is quite unnecessary to have joist-ings 12 inches thickness; the walls perhaps not being more than 8 feet high. This adds very considerably to the expense, while joistings 8 or 9 inches would be equally good; and, according to the custom of the country, it is quite unnecessary to put an upper baulk in a roof that may be 16 feet or 18 feet space where the couples and lower ties are 6J by 2| or 2 inches. It is different with their brick walls in England, where they require thicker joistings and stronger roofs, in consequence of the thinness of the walls. I also think that 20 oz. zinc should be allowed for gutters and wall. Iron gutters between roofs should also be allowed. We use them very often here." "I am glad that you mean to bring before the House of Commons the little advantage the landowners of Scotland derive from the Land Improvement Company, from the circumstance that the Inclosure Commissioners and their architect must sanction the plans to be executed with their money. They reside in London, and the habits and the wants of farmers and their labourers in Scotland differ so much from those of the same class in England as to require that one of the Commissioners should reside in Edinburgh, and that he and his architect should be thoroughly acquainted with the peculiarities of their habits and wants; and not only so, but may be able personally to converse with these landowners or farmers who may wish to borrow money under their sanction in regard to their proposed plans. Should you be able to suggest such a change in the present mode, you will do more to benefit the peasantry of Scotland than has been done by any effort yet made for their social improvement." Vict. 1127
 MR. AYRTON  said, the course proposed was conciliatory and satisfactory. He thought that the safeguard proposed by the Attorney General was quite sufficient. To adopt the Lords' Amendment would be a stultification of the Legislature.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, there had been no attempt made to erect a lighthouse.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to ask the Government for an explanation of the extraordinary and extravagant expenditure on the Lighthouse on the Basses Rocks, at Ceylon, and to move an Address for Papers relating thereto. The history of this case, though at the first blush it appeared an unimportant matter, would, he believed, occasion considerable surprise to the House. Hon. Members who looked at the Estimates would observe that in the Civil Service Estimates there was a Vote demanded this year of a sum of £2,000 or £3,000 for the lighthouse upon the advanced rocks of Ceylon. That Vote was passed without any comment, owing, he supposed, to the ignorance of the House upon the point. He was, however, led to inquire into the matter in consequence of a statement which had been submitted to him by certain gentlemen from Ceylon, and he found that the history of this lighthouse was one of a somewhat extraordinary character, and he was sure that a narration of it would not be uninteresting to the House. As far back as 1826 there was a Commission appointed to consider the best means of placing a Lighthouse upon the two large rocks off the Coast of Ceylon. Those rocks stood out about seven or eight miles from the
 1131 Dadalus, 1132 \Qd.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether the attention of the Government has been directed to the circulation of Lottery Tickets by different Societies in Ireland, great numbers of which have been sent by Post to different persons in England; whether the issuing, circulating, disposing, and purchasing of such Lottery Tickets is not illegal, and does not render the parties liable to heavy penalties; and whether, if the practice be continued, the Government will be prepared to prosecute the offenders?
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that no official Report had been received on the melancholy occurrence to which the question of the hon. Member referred. He was, however, sorry to say there could be no doubt of its being true that a detachment of Royal Artillery had been ordered to march from Mhow to Kirkee, and that a great mortality had occurred in the course of the march. The number
 1121
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he apprehended the state of the case to be this—Certain posts had been occupied before the winter. One of them had been attacked, and, he must say, very disgracefully abandoned; but it had since been retaken. It had not, however, been thought advisable to re-occupy it during the rainy season. A second post had been abandoned without having been attacked; but it also had been very gallantly retaken by the force. He believed it was not intended to occupy that at present, either. The information on these subjects was very incomplete, and he was unable to make out exactly what had been done. The European troops had been re-called, except a small portion of artillery, and every precaution had been taken toinsurc the health of the troops.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD : It is my intention, Sir, to bring forward the usual Indian statement this Session, but in the present state of the public business I am unable to fix a day.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What course he intends to adopt with regard to this Bill, which stands on the paper for tomorrow night?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the answer of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) appeared to leave the case in an unsatisfactory condition, because he had not explained to the House the cause of these repeated and remarkable failures in connection with the erection of a lighthouse on these rocks. He asked the right hon. Gentleman to state whether they arose from natural causes or the want of
 1134
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, he would beg to'ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is true that the Crown has granted a Licence to the Convocation of Canterbury to alter the form of Subscription now taken by the Clergy; and, if so, what grounds there are for granting such a Licence pending legislation by Parliament?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he hoped that the Attorney Gentral would not embark at this hour of the night on a Bill of such difficulty, but that he would postpone it to a more convenient season. Persons in Ireland, with a Parliamentary title, ought to be allowed to renew the title every five years if they thought right, and this would enable any one in five minutes to know whether there were charges on the estate. He suggested that this Bill should be referred to the Committee, which was sitting, to consider registration of judgments. There were two kinds of registry in Ireland, and the Attorney General wished to add a third. It would be better to have one system of registration which would be conducted in one office. He believed the existing system was infinitely more simple, cheap, and safe than the system it was proposed to substitute for it. The Bill, instead of simplifying, would increase the number of complications. It was because he believed so that he asked the Attorney General, as there was a general register, kindly to allow this subject to be handed over to the Commission now sitting to decide what was the mode of register most suitable for Ireland.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he objected to the Bill upon various grounds. It would im-
 1183
 MR. HASSARD  said, he did not apprehend that this Bill would be of much value, and, as it now stood, some portions of it were decidedly objectionable. It appeared to him that everything professed by this Bill could be done already under the existing law, in connection with the Land Transfer Court and the Registry Office. Every deed placed on the record under this Bill would necessarily involve a re-investigation of title.
 MR. MALINS  said, he would have been more satisfied if the Attorney General had wholly dissented from the Lords' Amendment; but as he proposed a conciliatory course he would not object to it.
 MR. MALINS  said, this Bill would be delusive. The Bill would deprive the landowner of an advantage which he now possessed, and for which the measure contained no compensation. If a man wanted an advance of money he could go to a broker's and obtain it upon the simple deposit of his title deeds. No one need know anything about it, and whenever he repaid the money he resumed possession of his title deeds and there was no publicity. That was a perfectly safe transaction to the lender, as a man could not deposit his title deeds twice. But under this Bill the landowner would lose this privilege, so far as absence of publicity was concerned. There were other points equally disadvantageous to the landowners, but as they seemed to desire this measure so much he strongly advised his right hon. Friend (Mr. Whiteside) not to oppose going into Committee upon it.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that a quantity of material was taken out for that purpose, but it was all lost, and a great expense had been incurred under the advice of men who it was thought at the time were competent engineers. He was willing to admit that the attempt had been a great failure, but except as a warning he did not think it would be practically useful to go further into the inquiry. It was the same with governments as with individuals, in attempting a great undertaking they were liable to failure. He had every reason to believe that the present arrangement would prove to be successful, economical, and afford all the facilities required for the navigation of the coast.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had not meant to say that there was no survey, but that there was none previous to the original estimate. In fact the scheme was founded upon incorrect and imperfect data.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the relations existing in the case referred to were the same as existed between the Board of Trade and all other promoters who applied under the Act of Parliament for Provisional Orders. Unless there were reasons of public policy which induced the Board of Trade to deny that Provisional Order, they left it to the opponents of the scheme to make their opposition before a Private Bill Committee. He could not say whether the promoters of the schemes alluded to by the hon. Member were likely to proceed with them or not. He knew nothing of the parties.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it must be admitted that there was a good deal of truth in the statement of the hon. Gentleman with regard to the ill success of the attempt to erect a lighthouse upon the reef of rocks off Ceylon, known as the Basses Rocks. The facts were, as far as he was able to judge of them from the correspondence that had taken place on the subject, that the difficulties of erecting a structure upon those rocks had been from the commencement greatly underrated. The money was voted before the rocks had even been surveyed. The difficulties of carrying out such a work were almost insuperable. The necessary supply of labour could not be obtained, and the supply of materials from the coast of Ceylon to the rocks increased both the difficulty and expense. The money that was expended upon the works had been really thrown away. It was at the bottom of the sea and could not be recovered. "What had been recently done would, he believed, effect all that could be desired. A light no doubt would be very desirable to the trade passing the
 1133
 MR. SCULLY  said, he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) would withdraw his opposition, and allow the Bill, with all its defects, to be passed this Session. So far as it gave a record of title he was entirely with it; but, so far as
 1182
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Question of the hon. Gentleman affords me a convenient opportunity for stating the course which Her Majesty's Government intend to adopt with regard to this Bill. In the view of Her Majesty's Government the Bill contains concessions to the issuers of private notes which they would not have deemed themselves justified in asking Parliament to sanction had they not hoped that thereby a general agreement would be arrived at between themselves and the country bankers. Unfortunately, however, recent proceedings out of doors showed that no such agreement exists, and therefore it is not the intention of the Government to proceed with the Bill. Her Majesty's Government, however, do not propose to abandon their intention of prosecuting the subject, and, in the absence of such an
 1124
 MR. MONSELL  said, he hoped the Attorney General would not accede to the proposition, which aimed at the postponement of this Bill by referring it to a Commission for the purpose of throwing it over the present Session. This Bill was a struggle between the attorneys and the landed gentry of Ireland. [Mr. WHITE-SIDE: I deny that.] It is the fact. Be they right or be they wrong there never was a Bill in which there was such a strong feeling on the part of the landed proprietors of Ireland as the present. The real question at issue was whether the obtaining of unquestionable title was to be effected at a cheap or at a dear rate. The measure having been so long asked for by the Gentlemen of Ireland, he really could not see why they should not be allowed to have it, especially as it was, after all, a permissive Bill.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, although, generally speaking, the practical results of calling the attention of the House to a subject were very slight, yet after the assurance of the Home Secretary he hoped better results in this instance. It was absurd that a Commissioner in London should prescribe what was to be done in Scotland. In Aberdeen there were two societies, one of them a co-operative association formed by the labourers themselves, which were engaged in the building of cottages, and it would be of great advantage if aid could be given to them from this country.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he hoped that the right hon. Baronet would extend his inquiries to Ireland, where the Inclosure Commissioners would not permit cottages to be tiled, though tiles were plentiful, but required them to be slated. They also would not permit the woodwork to be constructed of timber grown upon the estate, but compelled the use of Nor
 1130
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, no licence has as yet been granted by the Crown to the Convocation of Canterbury for the purpose alluded to by my hon. Friend. What has occurred is this—Her Majesty's Government were informed by the Archbishop of Canterbury that he had reason to believe that the Convocation of that Province would concur in the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Clerical Subscription, and would desire to express that concurrence by an alteration of the 36th and one or two other canons relating to the subject, so as to bring them into harmony with the alteration of the law to be made by Parliament; and the Archbishop expressed the hope that the Convocation would be allowed to do so. Her Majesty's Government thought it right to decline to invite, as was suggested, the action of Convocation on this matter, as such
 1123
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there was no Home Office plan; the Home Office exercised no control in this matter, nor any power over the Commissioners. The subject, no doubt, was one of importance. It was desirable that no obstacle should be thrown in the way of the building of cottages by the landowners, and that those who desired to borrow money for the purpose should be enabled to do so. The English Commissioners had, however, been constituted by Parliament the judges of the efficiency of the works; they were bound to see that the money was properly laid out, and that there were proper materials employed; but he agreed with his hon. Friend, behind him that nothing could be more absurd than for a Commission established in London to lay down a certain specific plan for the construction of cottages all over the United Kingdom. He was not aware that such a course had been adopted by the Commissioners. In Northumberland he knew that the cottages generally were built of stone. He had never before heard that the plan required them to be built of brick in places where stone was abundant, and that the spouting should be of lead instead of iron. Then, as his hon. Friend had said, the cottages that were good for England might not answer for the Scotch. He had seen them in
 1129
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the objections urged against this Bill were really questions of detail which could be better discussed when the Bill was in Committee than in its present stage. The most charming feature of this Bill was the system of close certificates which would confer advantage on the vendor and purchaser, but would not be accessible to everybody, and would save a considerable amount of expenditure which parties were liable to under the present law.
 MR. CAIRD  said, he wished to urge upon the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) the propriety of impressing upon the Commissioners the importance of giving enlarged powers to the resident Inspectors in Scotland.
 SIR. JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that all persons must admit that the work done in England under the superintendence of the Inclosure Commissioners was well and efficiently done—he spoke of the inclosure and drainage of land particularly, in respect to which the work was exceedingly satisfactory. But that any rule should be
 1128
 SIR THOMAS HESKETH : Was the lighthouse ever commenced at all?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I hoped, after the full discussion that had been had, they should be allowed to go to a division that night. He would only address the House upon the question whether this Bill ought to be referred to a Select Committee. He contended that it was altogether an unsuitable question for such a reference, because it essentially related to the law of Scotland, and did not depend upon evidence to be taken. Under ordinary circumstances, the Members for Scotland would have been inclined to have left it to be decided by those legal authorities best qualified to form an opinion.
 1204 1205 1206
 MR. GRANT DUFF : The University of London, whose claims I have been asked to lay before the House this evening, stands in a totally different relation
 1210 mutatis mutandis 1211 1212 1213 1214
 MR. COWPER  said, his hon. Friend had not at all over-stated the claims of the London University to the favour and support of that House. He fully concurred in what the hon. Gentleman had said of the great usefulness of the University and the great benefits it had conferred upon the education of the country. Any one who knew anything of the subject must be aware that the examinations provided by the University had been a great means of improving the education which was given in a large number of the educational institutions both in this country and in the colonies. The degrees given by the University were held in high esteem, more especially those in the branches of medical and physical science. There was no question, therefore, that the London University ought to receive all the support
 1215 1216
 COLONEL HERBERT , in rising to ask the Question of which he had given notice, said, that during the war in New Zealand the reinforcements of troops sent out brought up the total to 10,000 men. There was only one chaplain of the Church of England with them, and the Bishop of New Zealand volunteered the services of himself and several of his clergy. They performed that duty, it was needless to say, most efficiently. But as it was somewhat inconvenient, not to say derogatory, to these clergymen that they should be indebted for their food and the forage of their horses to the hospitality of officers, whenever they visited the camp, representations were addressed to the Secretary of State, who immediately sanctioned the issue of the pay and allowances attached to the office of acting mili-
 1225
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the question of responsibility just raised by the hon. Member for Glamorganshire had been fully discussed on the last occasion, when the subject of heavy ordnance was before the House, and it was then agreed on all hands that the Secretary of State for War, and no one else, was responsible to the House for the adoption of any gun or system of ordnance. The functions of the different offices enumerated by the hon. Member were perfectly defined. The Select Committee was a consultative body, principally charged with carrying out such experiments as were necessary to ascertain the merits of the different inventions, and to make reports for the guidance of the Secretary of State. These reports were made to the Director of Ordnance, to whom also, in the first instance, the proposals of all inventors relating to improvements in ordnance were referred. The Director of Ordnance was the adviser of the Secretary of State, and was held responsible by him to a considerable extent for the advice which he gave; but the responsibility of making any change, or of deciding upon any new system, rested, as far as that House was concerned, finally and solely on the Secretary of State himself. 1227 "The Committee reserve to themselves full latitude in the use of this second 100 rounds to fire them in such a way as to bring out the strong or weak points of any one of the systems in such a manner as they judge best calculated to answer the purpose of this inquiry—namely, which of these five systems of projectiles and four systems of rifling is to be preferred, and to determine whether any one of them is to be recommended for further trial or adoption." 1228 1229 1230
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there was no class of cases with which it was more painful to deal than such as were exemplified in the present instance. But the House owed an imperative duty to itself and to its Committees not to be deterred by any disinclination from asserting and vindicating its rights and privileges. The very tone adopted by the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hennessy) seemed to make it more incumbent on the House, unless it believed that its Committee had exceeded their duty, to mark its sense of the practices into which the Committee was appointed to inquire. Every one knew that no Committee except an Election Committee had power to administer oaths; but that was no reason why the House should abdicate its own powers. Of course the examination before a Committee was not and could not be conducted with the technical strictness of a Court of Law; but still the House was able to judge of the real merits of the case presented to it, and if they saw the substance of a case made out it was bound to vindicate its privileges. Then, what was the case before the House? He dis-
 1235 1236 1237
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he could not allow to pass unnoticed the very extraordinary language which the House had just heard. The hon. Member's views of law were very extraordinary, if he imagined that the privileges of that branch of the Legislature were not as well established by the law of the land as any other right in the country. It was the law of the land which said that that House had privileges, and the House had its own customary methods of investigating questions which concerned its own duties, in support of its authority, even to the extent of interfering with the liberty of the subject. The custom or law of Parliament was as much law as any other part, even the most sacred part, of the law of the land.
 MR. DIGBY SEYMOUR  said, the hon. Member had not answered the question asked. He had been asked to state distinctly the difference between the assumed guilt of the two men. In his opinion this proceeding was most discreditable; a private tribunal was opposed to all the principles of English justice, and any man who was tried behind his back should have his sympathy; and he could not understand why, having vindicated the dignity of the House with regard to one supposed offender, they should think it necessary to sacrifice these two also. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was, in his opinion, entitled to a distinct answer to his question—upon what grounds the Chairman of the Committee drew a distinction between the person who was to be committed to Newgate and those who were to be consigned to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, he did not intend to offer any opposition to the Vote, though he could not admit that the increase in the number of pupils was to be accepted as a proof of the success of the
 1254
 MR. DAWSON  thought it would be a most unfortunate thing for Ireland if these grants became denominational. Such a change would destroy the whole system of education in Ireland—a system which was gaining on the confidence and affection of the people, and which was likely to be of great advantage to the country. He trusted it would go forth that there was in this House a general concurrence as to the value of the existing system, and that the wish to disturb it was only shared by a email minority.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  thought the best way to prevent proselytism would be to introduce the denominational system into Ireland. The national system was calculated to make people believe that religion was a secondary consideration.
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he regretted to find so much difference of opinion amongst the Scotch Members on a subject of such importance; but after the
 1195 1196
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  hoped some intimation would be given when the Vote would be proposed. The state of the House at the present time warned them that unless the Vote was brought in immediately after the recess there would be little chance of having a House to consider the subject.
 MR. AYRTON  wished the Chairman of the Committee to explain clearly and distinctly the relative degree of guilt of these parties. He did not intend to vote on the question, and thought the Government ought to enjoy the honour and privilege of sending these men to prison. He trusted the rest of the House would take no part in it.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he was sorry that the arrangement he formerly suggested had not been acceded to, and that he was obliged to insist on the Motion of which he had given notice, that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. He certainly regretted that a matter involving so much detail, and so little general interest, should be forced on the House at large. It was impossible to get Members to take an interest in the discussion, because the questions that arose were such as could only be well considered in a Select Committee. He would refer to some of the general features of the two Bills for the purpose of showing that the details were not likely to receive that attention in a Committee of the Whole House which the Amendments proposed required. There had been for two centuries and a half a system of registration of land rights in Scotland. There were a number of registers for districts—every Royal burgh had its own register; there was one in nearly every county, although in some cases two might be joined together to form a district; but substantially there was a local register. Unfortunately, however, there had been combined with that what was called a general register. That was kept at Edinburgh, and its original was to relieve the proprietors of baronies, which included lands in several counties, from the necessity of registering the sasines in every county in which there were lands forming part of their baronies. The effect of this was, that the registers not being
 1189 1190 1191 1192 1193 1194
 MR. FINLAY  said, he spoke without claiming to possess special legal knowledge, but he wished to say a few words as a proprietor—for he took the question to be, in fact, a proprietors' question. It was the interest of the proprietors that had to be guarded, and not the interest of the lawyers. The proprietors complained at present of the great expense of registering deeds. That expense was attributable to two causes—first, the great delays and arrears in writing up the index; and next, the necessity for a double search. They were all agreed upon the desirability of having only one search; and both the Bills before the House profess to have that object in view. But it appeared to him that under the Bill of the hon. and learned Member for Greenock, two searches
 1198
 MR. LEFROY  said, he did not desire to oppose the grant to the National Board in the present state of the House. It would not be denied that a Board presided over by Commissioners of high rank and position and administering funds to the amount of £325,000 a year conferred a great amount of good upon the country. Yet he, and those who thought with him, had some reason to complain that a favour was granted to one portion of the population which was denied to another. The Protestant clergy of Ireland were not able, on conscientious grounds, to partake of this grant, and he concurred in their objection. They were bound to instruct their flocks in the Holy Scriptures, and many of them, being men of straitened means, deprived themselves of the comforts of life to support their schools, which ought to receive a portion of this grant. The Protestants of Ireland could not accede to the present system, and the House ought to make such changes as would enable them to participate in the grant. He could not concur in the grant of £2,000 to the teachers in convent schools. In the county of Cork there were nineteen of these convent schools which were receiving that favour from the State which was denied to others on the ground of peculiar teaching. The Return moved for by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, which had been laid upon the table within the last few days, showing the distribution of the £2,000, gave him reason to feel that the apprehension of his hon. and learned Friend with regard to its distribution was correct. One of the Commissioners (he did not know whether he was a Commissioner at the present moment) was strongly opposed to the transfer of popular education to monastic teachers, and another high authority, Mr. Sheridan, stated that in the Killarney district no day school by lay teachers would be tolerated. It happened, however, that a considerable number of Roman Catholics could not be induced to send their children to convent schools, and when the lay schools were abolished they could get no education at all.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I am happy to inform my hon. and gallant Friend that Prince Kung has been appointed his own successor. We have received a telegram at the Foreign Office from Pekin to the effect that he has been re-instated with all his dignities, and is again Prime Minister. We have no official Reports with regard to British trade, but on the whole the accounts are very favourable, with the exception of those places occupied by marauders. There is every prospect of the trade increasing.
 LORD FERMOY  said, he rejoiced to hear that the national education system was bearing good fruit in Ireland. As to the agricultural Votes, it was his experience in Ireland that any agriculturists who were particularly well trained had received their education at Glasnevin. He did not desire, however, to see the district agricultural schools superseded, for he believed that what was good for the metropolis would in time prove to be good for the provinces also. As regarded the suggestion that agricultural training should form a part of the education given in every school, he hardly expected much benefit from it practically, seeing that it was easier to be a good schoolmaster than a good agriculturist, and the combination of these qualities would be rare indeed. The national system of education in Ireland was very good. The excellent character of the education given in the humbler schools was a just source of pride at this moment to Irishmen, but he believed one fact lying at the bottom of much of the emigration constantly going forward was that the people were educated somewhat above their class. The natural result was that they endeavoured to better their condition by going to countries more wealthy and prosperous. He was not one of those who considered emigration such a serious evil to Ireland. Education, however, was attended with other effects, for it had materially increased the tranquillity of the country, and nearly put an end to those agrarian outrages which once were the national disgrace. Faction fighting, also, and other practices only found in countries occupying a low position in the scale of enlightenment, were disappearing. He looked, therefore, on the excellent education which the Irish people were now receiving, coupled
 1253
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the two rules governing the national system in Ireland were plain. One was that in school hours the teaching should be of such a character that all Christians might partake of it; and the other rule was that when religious teaching of a peculiar character was given children whose parents objected should not be compelled to attend. If the schools to which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Whiteside) had referred would conform to those simple rules they could receive the benefits of the public grant, but, if they did not, then no amount of eloquence or mystification would entitle them to those advantages.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the conferences between Her Majesty's Government and the Ministers from Canada have not yet been brought to a close, but I hope very soon to be able to report the result of those conferences to the House.
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether there is any foundation for a statement which has appeared in the  Owl
 MR. BENTINCK  regretted that the subject did not attract more attention, and was not discussed with fuller benches. From what he had heard of it he ventured to suggest that there were two morals to be drawn from it. The first was the uncertainty which existed in respect of the petitions. In this instance the fictitious signatures had been discovered; but he ventured to think that this was the exception, and that, in ninety-nine cases out of 100, fictitious signatures to petitions were not discovered. That moral might be drawn in connection with the practice of inundating the House of Commons with petitions. Another and more important moral was to be drawn from the manner in which the House dealt with such questions as this. It appeared to him that the Committee had pursued a course which was not uncommon in that House—they had dealt with the small fry and allowed the big fish to escape. His hon. Friend (Sir James Fergusson) had told them that there was nothing to implicate Mr. Strutt with misdeeds or immoral practices. According to his hon. Friend, there was nothing in that gentleman's conduct which the Committee had been called upon to investigate. Now, he had taken the trouble to refer to the Order of Reference, from which it appeared that it had been quite within the province of the Committee to deal with Mr. Strutt's proceedings. The reference was—
 "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the circumstances under which, and the parties by whom, the signatures were annexed to the petitions relating to the case of Prince Azeem Jah during the present Session." 1241 d. d. 1242 The Times The Times 1243
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the hon. Baronet had construed his admission that he had not heard the evidence into an admission that he was not qualified to give an opinion. What he meant to say was, that if he had read the evidence he should probably have had more to say on the subject. What he contended was, that the proceedings of the Committee were of a most desultory and illegal character. The proceedings of all Committees of the House were of that character. He must enter his strong protest, as a Member of that House, against such an act as they were about to perpetrate—that of consigning a man to prison on evidence not sworn, and on proceedings so irregular and at variance with the practice of the Courts of Justice. If his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Henncssy) divided, as a protest against such a national scandal, he should go into the lobby with him.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  expressed a hope that the Government would not proceed with the Vote at that hour (twelve o'clock).
 MR. PEACOCKE  said, he had taken the liberty a few weeks ago of asking the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War whether the trial between the French gun and the shunt gun had been made under circumstances favourable to a fair comparison. The noble Lord replied that such questions were very inconvenient, and that
 1224
 MR. H. BAILLIE , in calling attention to the proceedings of the Ordnance Select Committee, said, that when on a former occasion he had thought it his duty to direct the attention of Parliament to what he considered the mismanagement of Ordnance Department, he then stated that the Ordnance Department had been unable during the last five years to furnish the Admiralty with sufficient guns for naval purposes; that a vast and extravagant expenditure had occurred without any adequate result; and that the Department was administered by a committee of officers, who were practically without responsibility, and who had very anomalous duties to perform; he stated that they were called upon to pronounce judgment upon the inventions and manufactures of other persons, whilst they themselves had become rival manufacturers and inventors, carrying on their experiments and transactions at the expense of the country. These statements were at the time denied by the noble Lord the Under Secretary for War, and he was also surprised to hear a very emphatic denial from his right hon. Friend the hon. and
 1217 1218 Excellent "The Select Committee gun weighs 82 cwt. 1 qr.; length, 9·5–12; calibre, 7·1 in.; spiral not known; grooves, 15, 0·73 in. wide by 0·5 in. deep; charge, 16lb.; shell, a compound of steel, cast iron, and lead; body cylindrical, of cast iron, inclosing a steel core; head, hemispherical, false; lead outside all; bottom of shell secured with a wooden sabot like Bashley Britten's. Altogether, it appears to combine the worst properties of many inventors' shells without their corresponding advantages. It produced no effect on the target." 1219 The Mechanics' Magazine, "The shunt gun has been definitively abandoned, and no large guns will for the future be rifled on that principle. The 64-pounders which have so very recently been finished and issued to the Royal Navy have utterly failed on trial on board ship. The shot with the hollow head did not travel in a straight course, and were found to break up on impact, or even by a fall upon the ship's deck. The intention now is to make a new shot, which is to be hollow in the rear. The shells from this naval 64-pounder have been found to burst prematurely in the gun, and in one gun on board the  Excellent 1220 1221 The Engineer "In our last week's impression we gave a table of the ranges of the 7-in. competitive guns, supplied by the President of the Ordnance Select Committee. These ranges were the most favourable for the French gun, its shot having been fired with only 20lb. charges, which their zinc studs could withstand, but when the full powder charge of 25lb. was used the studs were partially sheared off, and the shot, consequently, had a very erratic flight. The loading of the French gun was likewise difficult—so much so that the Committee cut off the rear stud to facilitate the operation, which had, however, the effect of making the shooting still more inaccurate, and they then reduced the size of the buttons. It was at this period that the special correspondent of the  Standard, hors de combat, 1222 1223 s.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  thought the Vote too important to be at once proceeded with, and he should, therefore, move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, that having acted for two years on the Select Committee, the difficulty and doubt which he had always felt was as to the person responsible for the adoption of any particular arm. During the past few years serious mistakes had been made, both as regarded small arms and ordnance; but one might almost defy any person to say who was responsible for these mistakes. What was needed was the guiding hand in this branch of expenditure. In the navy, if defective ships were built, there was a Constructor who could be blamed or superseded; but in the army there was no corresponding official. In former times the Master General of the Ordnance was responsible for the Vote for small arms and big guns; but the noble Lord would hardly say that the present Director General of Ordnance was responsible for the selection of any particular arm. As regarded the Select Committee, questions were no doubt submitted to them for their opinion, but they were not entitled to make suggestions.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that he had had the honour to present a petition from Aberdeen of exactly a contrary nature from that presented by his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Sykes). He (Mr. Crum-Ewing) supported the Bill because it would get rid, at a marvellously small cost, of a large and expensive staff; secondly, it would be the means of preserving greater uniformity; thirdly, it would give greater facilities for examining the writs by having them all at one place, and at a less trouble and expense than having, as now, to go through the various counties; and, fourthly they would be placed in a fire-proof building, and thus be more secure from accidents. He thought the measure one of great improvement.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the convent schools were popular because they contradicted in the most positive and express manner the principles on which the National Board was founded. That principle was to assist schools in which persons of all religions should be taught. This sounded well; but the result of it would be to exclude the religious element from education altogether, which was an impossibility. The convent schools were frequented, as the hon. Member (Mr. Hennessy) had said, because everybody knew that religion was taught there. Having assisted the convent schools, how could the Government justify the refusal even of a book to the parochial schools in Ireland connected with the Church? It was an absolute impossibility to continue the system upon the principle on which it now was said to rest. The English system would be a much more honest and satisfactory one. It was a peculiarity of the National Board that they never reasoned. Archbishop Whately tried to reason with them; but he failed and retired. He belonged to a society in the schools connected with which—perhaps he ought to be ashamed to mention it in this assembly—they were so imprudent as to allow the reading of the New Testament. This fact ruined their character with the National Board; and the consequence was that there were 1,500 or 1,600 schools which got no assistance from the State. Anything more ridiculous he could not imagine. The National Board said, "It is impossible to aid you; we act on principle in refusing aid in such cases." And yet aid was given to the conventual and monastic schools, while it was refused to the parochial schools of the Church. The Secretary for the Colonies was a sa-
 1256
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the right hon. Gentleman had misunderstood him. He did not argue that the parental authority should be set aside; but contended that those who thought with the right hon. Gentleman defied the parental authority. They called that "liberty" which said "If you agree with us we will give you assistance; if you do not we will give you none." His complaint was that if a parent chose to send his child to a school where the Scriptures were taught no assistance from the State was given. The Church Edu-
 1259
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER , as a Member of the Committee, said, that no doubt there was great difficulty in conducting an investigation of that kind in a Committee exactly as a case would be conducted in a Court of Law; but the Committee had desired to give the fairest trial to those who came before them in the character of accused persons, and no bench of magistrates could have taken more care than they had shown in order that there should be nothing done to prejudice the prisoners. The hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) had stated that Mr. Netherclift, the expert, felt himself puzzled; but why? It turned out that Mitchell employed Marshall to draw cheques in his name and sign receipts for him, and there were certain signatures about which it was difficult to say who was the writer. But there were hundreds of signatures as to which there was not the slightest doubt, and could not be, and which were the signatures of Mitchell and Marshall. He entirely agreed in the remarks made by the hon. Member for Ayr (Sir James Fergusson) with regard to the hon. Member for the King's County. The latter hon. Gentleman had commenced by attacking the Committee on Petitions; but if he had only attended a judicial Committee, as he ought to have done, from the beginning to the end, he might at any part of the examination have made the proposals which now came too late from him. Mitchell was told, on the very first day of the proceedings before the Committee, that he might hand in a list of the witnesses he desired should be produced, that he was at liberty to adduce any evidence he might think proper in his own defence, but he declined to avail himself of that permission.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the hon. and gallant Member near him (Sir James Fergusson) had indulged in some personal remarks upon his conduct; but he should not occupy the time of the House by
 1244 habeas corpus, habeas corpus
 MR. HENNESSY  presented a petition from Mr. G. M. Mitchell on this subject, and moved that it he read by the Clerk at the table. brought up,
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he should have anticipated that the Attorney General would have favoured the House with his opinion on a question of such importance. It was remarkable that Mr. Strutt, who got up the petitions, paying a penny per head for each signature, had never been mentioned by the hon. Member. Mr. Strutt not only paid for the signatures, but was fully cognizant of the fact that the signatures were fictitious. Those petitions were presented to the House by the instigation of Strutt, and he knew they were forged, for a letter was produced from him before the Committee, in which he expressed, some time before the petitions were presented, his doubts as to the genuineness of the signatures. And yet his name was altogether omitted by the hon. Member for Walsall. Mitchell all along expressed his desire to cross-examine Mr. Strutt, but in the second Committee he was again refused the opportunity. Again and again he had expressed a wish to ask Mr. Strutt some questions, but he was not allowed. Hon. Members would see that by turning to the evidence, and at question 2,136 they would see how the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. Cox) was stopped by the Committee
 1233 1234
 MR. HENNESSY  agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Lefroy) in thinking it a great hardship that the schools connected with the Church Education Society, in which the Bible was taught, should receive no grant. The late Mr. O'Connell subscribed largely to one of the schools of the Society in his neighbourhood, and continued to do so even after the Government grant had been withdrawn. But would his hon. Friend agree with him in thinking that it was a hardship that the schools of the Christian Brothers should receive no grant? Ireland ought to be treated like England, where grants were given to the denominational schools. When the clergy of the Established Church in Ireland and the Catholic clergy were both opposed to the present system, it was strange that Government should take no steps to meet the wishes of those two great bodies. With regard to the convent schools, it had been reported by the Inspectors, many of whom were Protestants, that they were the best in Ireland, and that circumstance was owing to the superior manners and education of the ladies who conducted them. The people of Ireland preferred to send their children to the convent school
 1255
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that when the hon. Member rose he thought he was going to move that the men whom they tried behind their backs and convicted behind their backs should be hung. The Attorney General might say this was legal; but was it just? These two persons were tried and convicted by a majority of the Committee, and they were now to be taken into custody. He should like to know if they were to be committed to Newgate. These men had been tried privately; the public and the press were not admitted. They were frequently compelled to leave the room, and were condemned without being heard. He considered the whole proceedings discreditable to Parliament and to the country.
 MR. HENNESSY  wanted to know what was to be done with the men when they were committed to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms. A precisely similar punishment had been some years ago inflicted, by order of the House, upon Mr. Strutt, who had been committed to the: custody of the Sergeant at Arms for I forging signatures to a petition. That was the first offence of that man; and when he committed a second offence he was let off without any punishment.
 MR. DILLWYN  asked for more information. There was a rumour that, many years ago, the Soulage Collection was purchased but had not been paid for until about a month or three weeks ago. He wished to know whether some portion of this Vote was not interest, and whether the Government wanted to conceal from the House the expenditure the South Kensington Museum cost the country.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the course which had been pursued illustrated the truth of the old adage, "The more haste the less speed." If the learned Lord Advocate had given the Scotch Members the inquiry they demanded, and to which they were entitled, he would probably now have been passing the Bill with certain amendments. At all events, he would have got it through this House far more easily than he was likely to do by withholding it. As to the doctrine of authority—which as a guide to legislation was one of the most astonishing doctrines that could be heard at the present day—who was to decide between the conflicting authorities? The learned Lord Advocate said that this was not a question for us to decide—that, being of a technical legal character, it must be decided by eminent lawyers, and that the highest legal authority was on his side.
 1208 tabula rasa
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he had no intention to enter into any discussion of the merits of this question, for in his opinion only a lawyer could properly discuss it; but he desired to make one or two remarks on the doctrine which the learned Lord Advocate had laid down in the speech, because he thought it one of the most extraordinary doctrines which a person in his position could lay down. The learned Lord appealed to the House not to send his Bill before a Select Committee, not on the ground that it was so late in the Session that to do so would have the effect of putting off the Bill altogether, but because he says it was not a question that ought to be investigated by a Select Committee of the House of Commons, but one which ought to be determined by authority. Now he (Mr. Aytoun) was always under the apprehension that the only authority which ought to determine anything in that House was the authority of reason and conviction in the minds of Members, and least of all did he expect to bear "authority" quoted, not by a Whig Minister—for he was afraid that a Whig Minister might rather like the term "authority" than otherwise—but by a Liberal Minister. He would surely have thought that a Liberal Minister would have desired the question to be settled by facts and reason. Then the right hon. Gentleman said that the opposition to the Bill was an opposition which is got up
 1207
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that Her Majesty's Government had thought it right to give effect to the Vote which the House of Commons had arrived at last year, and they had, therefore, been engaged in framing plans for the enlargement of the National Gallery upon its present site, and the work could be executed from time to time as necessity should arise. The House would have an opportunity of considering the question at the proper time; but the Vote at present before the House was simply for the purchase of pictures and for the ordinary maintenance of the establishment.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the House could not be much worse than at present, but there was a hope that after the Whitsuntide recess it would revive; the Vote would be laid upon the table immediately after the recess.
 MR. COX  said, he had voted with the minority in the Committee on all occasions, because he did not feel in his conscience that evidence was produced to enable him to find a verdict of guilty against these persons. It was now proposed that one of them should be committed to the custody of the Sergeant at Arms—which meant that he was to be kept, boarded, and lodged for the remainder of the Session at the expense of the country, and yet he believed that that one was far more guilty than the man who had already been condemned. These proceedings would not tend to elevate the character of the House, for this House was dealing with men so poor that they had not the means of bringing before the Committee either solicitor or counsel for their defence. These persons were not present during the inquiry into their conduct, there was nothing proved against them, and now they were ordered to be taken into custody. He maintained that the House had no more right than any other Court of Law to inflict punishment until guilt was properly proved, and where there was a doubt the prisoners ought to have the benefit of it.
 MR. COX  was anxious to say that each Member of the Committee had been most desirous to do justice to all the persons involved in the inquiry, and if he had had the misfortune to differ with the rest of the Committee, it was not because they were less anxious than himself to arrive at a proper decision. There could not be the slightest doubt that many of the signatures attached to the petitions were forgeries, but that fact in itself would not be sufficient to convict a man in a Court of Justice. For that reason he had thought it his duty to move in the Committee the Resolution referred to by the hon. Member for the King's County. There was, undoubtedly, strong  primâ facie 1238
 MR. COX : But there was no evidence to show the exact number the petitions bore. Two petitions were divided into three. The Attorney General laid great stress on the case of Graham, who stated that he had neither signed the petition nor authorized his signature to be appended. But another witness called to corroborate that statement gave his evidence in a manner which satisfied his (Mr. Cox's) mind that authority had been given for Graham's name to be signed, although he had forgotten all about it. He would not, by a Resolution of that House, deprive a man of his liberty when a jury would certainly not return a verdict of guilty against him. He did not think that either a Committee upstairs or the Bar of that House was the proper place to try a man for forgery. In his view there was sufficient  primâ facie
 MR. MONSELL  admitted that the Agricultural Department, properly carried on—and he admitted that the Glasnevin School was well managed—was calculated
 1252
 MR. MONSELL  said, he wished the monitorial system to be extended, but was anxious to know why the money voted by Parliament had not been applied. He denied the accuracy of the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) as to the practice of the National Board and the Church Education Society. The distinction between the National Board and the Church Education Society was that the former did not force any child to receive any religious instruction to which the parent of the child might object. On the other hand, the Church Education Society refused any child the benefit of secular instruction unless that child received their religious instruction, to which the parent might object. There were now 15,000 Roman Catholic children in those schools receiving religious instruction from persons not of their own persuasion. He protested against the introduction of such a system into Ireland. The first principle of any national system of education which would work in Ireland must be to avoid the suspicion of proselytism (to use the expression of Lord Derby), and therefore he protested against the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had presented a petition from Aberdeen against the Lord Advocate's Bill, and he must say he entirely concurred in the prayer of the petition. He held in his hand the last Report of the Committee upon Public Petitions, from which he found that there had been ninety-six petitions in all presented upon this subject; and of these twenty-three were in favour of the Lord Advocate's Bill, seventy against it, and three prayed for alteration in both Bills. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that these petitions were not signed at street corners like many petitions that had recently been presented to the House, but by gentlemen of education and position. Was it then right or reasonable that they should take upon themselves to decide here in this House, with scarcely a quorum present upon these Bills when there was evidently a conflict of opinion out of doors upon the question? He emphatically said it was not; and although it was possible and probable that a reference to a Select Committee might delay or cause the loss of these Bills for the present Session, he also said so much the better; for this advantage would be gained, that they would have the maturely-formed judgment of men upon whom they could rely.
 1197
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether information has been received of the dismissal of Prince Kung from his office of President of the Board of Foreign Affairs at Pekin, and who has been appointed his successor; and whether official Reports have been received from the diplomatic and consular authorities in China of the progress of insurrection in several provinces as affecting the Export and Import Trade of the Country?
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  then moved that Powell Marshall, having been concerned with George Morris Mitchell in fabricating signatures to petitions, had
 1246
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, the House would remember that the Committee which had inquired into this subject
 1231 "See no reason to alter or qualify their report already made to the House, and are satisfied upon the whole of the evidence laid before them, and upon their own renewed and repeated personal inspection of the several documents and signatures forming part of that evidence, that the said George Morris Mitchell has wilfully affixed a great number of fictitious signatures to several of the petitions in question, without the knowledge or authority of the persons purporting to have signed those petitions; and that the said George Morris Mitchell, as your Committee have before reported, has therein been guilty of a breach of the privileges of this House." 1232
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, that he had already stated most distinctly that the Committee were of opinion that Mitchell was the principal offender, and that the others acted under his instructions.
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, the Committee regarded Mitchell as the chief offender, and the others as acting under his direction. As to the statement that they were directed to leave the room, they had the fullest opportunity of examining the witnesses and putting any questions to them that they might think desirable.
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  observed, that it depended upon the discretion of the
 1248
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this was the mildest form of proceeding that the House could adopt. If these persons admitted their offence and petitioned the House for their release, the House would no doubt not be indisposed to give, according to its usual practice, a merciful consideration to their petition. If, however, they asserted that they had committed no offence against the privileges of the House, and set themselves in opposition to it, they would remain in custody.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that his right hon. Friend (Mr. Bruce), who could have answered the question, had left the House; but if the hon. Gentleman gave
 1261
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON : There was evidence as to the number of signatures paid for.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that having served upon this Committee from the commencement, he must say that he thought that no Member of it considered the duty of attending a welcome one. The inquiry was extremely tedious and difficult, and one which no one would go through but from a sense of duty. The Members of the Committee had done their duty to the best of their ability, and he was only sorry some Gentlemen were not satisfied with the result. No one could accuse the hon.
 1239 1240
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman had not quoted his remarks fairly. He did not say that he was a master of the law of evidence, but said he had done his best to make himself master of the facts. The hon. and learned Gentleman had committed another mistake in having said that Mr. Strutt had uttered the petitions knowing them to be forged. Now, the evidence showed that the officials had received them from the
 1245
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, it would perhaps be in the recollection of the House, that no discussion was taken upon the second reading of this Bill, at the express suggestion of the Lord Advocate. It was against his wish that the Bill passed that important stage  sub silentio; 1199 sub silentio, 1200 1201 onus probandi 1202 1203 animus
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  seconded the Motion.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had followed the system now for some years, and was convinced that it had been of immense use to the country. Year after year the number of children attending the schools increased, and that was a proof that the system was making great progress in the country. As to one class only being admitted to the schools—which of course the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) meant was only the Roman Catholics—nothing could be further from the true
 1257 1258 s. d.,
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, with the permission of the Committee, I will, as usual, state what are the main features of the Vote for which they are now asked. I am happy to be able to state that, although there is an increase in its amount over that of last year, that has arisen from an extension of the system in Ireland and an increase of the number of children who are availing themselves of its advantages. The Vote exceeds that of last year by £8,313; but there are now in Ireland 100 more national schools than there were then, and the number of teachers has proportionately increased. If I review the history of national education in Ireland since the year 1834, in three decennial periods ending 1844, 1854, and 1864, the House will see what is the progress which has been made. In 1834 the number of schools under the national system was 1,106, and the number of pupils upon their rolls 145,521. In the first decennial period from that date—namely, up to 1844—the number of those schools increased to 3,153, and the number of pupils on
 1249 1250 1251
 MR. BRAMSTON  said, this Bill had been carefully considered before a Committee of the House of Lords. It was unusual, under such circumstances, to refuse a Bill a second reading. As to these oysters being sent abroad, if they could supply the Parisian market so much the better for those who could rear the supply.
 MR. COX  said, the House of Lords could scarcely have had their attention drawn to the fact that the Commissioners of "Woods and Forests had sold the company the right of exclusive fishing in the river for £20 per annum, notwithstanding the proprietors higher up the stream had offered £500 per annum for that right.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he objected to the rights of the public which had been enjoyed for centuries, and which they themselves were not in a position to support, being interfered with in the manner proposed by the Bill.
 MR. WATKIN  said, that if the Commissioners of Woods and Forests had power to sell the right of fishing in the stream, the Bill could not interfere with any public rights whatever.
 MR. DODSON  said, he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in his Amendment. The Bill having come down from the other House, he thought the House of Commons would be adopting rather a strong measure in saying that there was no case for inquiry, and refusing to allow the Bill to go before a Select Committee, where both its principle and details would be fully considered.
 MR. VERNER  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he is aware that lottery tickets of an illegal character have been extensively circulated amongst the Clerks in the Public Departments, for general distribution, accompanied by gratuitous tickets as an inducement for the sale of the others?
 MR. VERNER  said, he would now beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, if his attention has been drawn to the distribution of lottery tickets to and by the Irish Constabulary, and if the employment of the Constabulary in this occupation has received the sanction of their superior officers and of the Irish Government; and if, after the opinion lately expressed by the Attorney General as to the illegality
 1269
 MR. PEEL  said, that no information had been received at the Treasury as to the business in the Taxing Office having fallen into arrears, and no application had been made by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland for the appointment of a successor to Master O'Dwyer.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was in the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, subject to the approval of the Treasury.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Estimates were in preparation, and he hoped he should be able to lay them on the table of the House in a few days. It was proposed to purchase the ground in the rear of the present building, at present occupied by the workhouse and the parochial schools belonging to St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, and also Archbishop Tenison's school. He had been in communication with the vestry, and he found that they were willing to dispose of the workhouse and parish schools to the Government upon condition that they should receive such a sum of money as would enable them to erect another workhouse in the suburbs, and provide within the parish a casual ward and parochial offices. The Trustees of Archbishop Tenison's schools were also willing to dispose of their property provided means were given them to obtain another school in the parish. And a similar arrangement would have to be made with regard to the parochial schools. It would therefore be his duty to submit to the House a proposal for the purchase of this property, to be laid out as required for the enlargement of the National Gallery from time to time, so as to give the necessary accommodation.
 1272
 MR. COWPER  said, that a proposal had been made by the Government to the Royal Academy, that if they pleased to apply for a site at Burlington House the Government would be prepared to grant it to them. There had not been time as yet to ascertain the intention of the Royal Academy, but in any event a considerable time must necessarily elapse before they could vacate the National Gallery. With reference to opening the national collections three times a week, he quite agreed with his hon. Friend that a great portion of the inhabitants of the metropolis were so busy all day that they could not find time to see the public exhibitions except at night, and, further, that many of the persons for whom these collections were especially provided were just the people who were unable to benefit by them at present. So that he entirely went along with his hon. Friend, on the principle that every public exhibition should be, so far as was feasible and safe, opened in the
 1274
 THE CHANCELLOR, OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that nothing would be more inexpedient than to lay out every year the sum of £8,000 voted by Parliament for the purchase of pictures, whether works of art of sufficient merit presented themselves or not. The question then arose whether this balance should be kept in the hands of the Department or surrendered to the Exchequer, like the other balances. It was always undesirable to
 1276
 MR. COWPER  said, he agreed that it was important the collection of national portraits should be better exhibited. The present accommodation was only temporary. It was fully intended that when the new gallery was erected a proper place should be found for the exhibition of these portraits. No doubt a really good gallery ought to be made for them. With regard to the hours during which the portraits were now exhibited trustees would be called upon to consider the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. COWPER  said, there was a wonderful alarm on the part of some hon. Members at the words "South Kensington." Nothing had yet been decided on the subject.
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished for some explanation of the item of £500 for a meteorological survey in the West Indies. This was a yearly grant. What progress had been made, and how long was it to last?
 MR. PEEL  said, that the West Indies paid one-half of these expenses and all incidental expenses. There were a great many islands, and he thought these gentlemen would be occupied for some time to come.
 MR. COWPER  said, that it was true a railway proposed to go by a tunnel under Greenwich Park. The Admiralty objected on the ground of injury to the Observatory, and the promoters had accordingly been told that the consent of the Crown could not be given. It was open to the promoters to show that the railway could pass under the Park without injury to the Observatory, but as yet they had not succeeded in doing so.
 MR. WHITE  said, he thought that there ought to be some report made to Parliament as to the progress of the meteorological survey in the West Indies.
 MR. PEEL  said, that before the survey was commenced a Parliamentary Report was laid on the table giving a full account of the objects of the survey.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to ask whether he correctly understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that the collection of statistics by merchant ships was given up. As a collection of facts—rather than of prophecies—he thought they might have been made the foundation of some useful object. The expenditure for telegrams by this Department was enormously large, as large as the sum expended for telegrams by the Foreign Office. He hoped the matter would receive the consideration of the Government.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to ask whether any formal decision had been come to as to the restoration of the convict establishments at this colony.
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to inquire whether the expected co-operation of the American Government in the suppression of the slave trade was not likely to lead to a diminution of the Vote on a future occasion.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he must remind the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, that in the Committee on the Consular Department it had been clearly demonstrated that charges of this kind created much discontent among the mercantile classes, and engendered disagreeable feelings towards our Consuls. He had nothing to say against the efficiency of Mr. Michele, who, he believed, was a very good Consul; but the charge was one that certainly ought not to be maintained.
 THE CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Member for Hull withdraw his Motion? [Mr. CLAY: Certainly not.] It would be more convenient to take the Motion of which notice had been given by the hon. Member for Taunton (Mr. Cavendish Bentinck) first. It would be open to the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) to propose the reduction of the Vote alter-wards.
 THE CHAIRMAN : If they took a division on this item they could not go back and discuss a former item.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the rule was that after any Motion for the reduction of an item on the Vote had been proposed from the Chair it was not competent for any hon. Member to propose a Motion on or to debate any previous item.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that when the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) commenced his remarks upon our Consularship at St. Petersburg, the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour) should have risen, and said that he desired to offer some remarks upon an earlier item.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the hon. Member could exercise his right in discussing the whole Vote after the particular Motion before the Committee had been disposed of.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the Votes proposed for the Consular establishments in the Ionian. Islands were excessively large. It was larger than the charge for Consuls in the whole Kingdom of Greece. These Votes included sums of £1,000 for a Consul General at Corfu, £500 for the Consul at Zante, and £500 for the Consul at Cephalonia.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, he wished to ask whether Viscount Amberley was attached to the mission?
 MR. PEEL  said, that the principles according to which superannuations were granted were very strictly laid down in the Act of  Will. 1297
 MR. PEEL  said, the system, such as it was, was one which was based upon the provisions of the Act of Parliament, and proceeded on the same principle of length of service and amount of salary in reference to all salaries, whether large or small.
 MR. PEEL  said, the allowances under that head were not asked for for the first time this year. He could not exactly say under what circumstances those who were in receipt of the pensions at present had retired, as the hon. Baronet had not given him notice of his question.
 MR. PEEL  said, that Mr. Hood was entitled to the pension in accordance with the Act of Parliament, in consequence of the abolition of the office which he held.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he wished to ask whether no other Consulship could have been found for Mr. Hood instead of giving him so large a retiring allowance.
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he was surprised that it was not proposed to increase this Vote. A deputation on the subject had waited on the Chancellor of the Exchequer last year, and the right hon. Gentleman gave them reason to suppose that the Government would raise the salaries of the Presbyterian ministers in Ireland from £75 to £100 a year. The right hon. Gentleman was not now in his place to state why, though he had given that sort of pledge, he had not thought fit to fulfil it. The Presbyterians in the north of Ireland took a great interest in the matter, and they thought it very hard, when so many liberal allowances were made, that the stipends of the Presbyterian ministers should not be increased.
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  said, he seconded the Amendment. Considering the wealth of the Presbyterian body in Ireland, they were degraded by receiving this money. The Vote had originated in Parliamentary corruption, and had been established by Lord Castlereagh, in order to obtain control over the Presbyterian ministers. He did not accuse the present Government of maintaining the grant with a view to corruption, but it would be well if the Presbyterians of the north of Ireland wiped their hands of it altogether. The money, as voted, was for distribution in a certain manner, but the grant was much abused, as there were ministers under it receiving as much as £200 a year by the accumulation of offices receiving pay. [Colonel KNOX—Name!] Dr. Cooke. [Colonel KNOX: No!) Yes. Dr. Cooke was a professor, and in various ways his salary, paid out of the grant, was more than £250 a year. It would be an honour to the Presbyterians of Ireland if they would come forward of their own accord and give up this grant altogether.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he regretted that the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Crossley) had not moved to strike out the whole Vote. The complaint in Dr. Cooke's case was not that he, who could scarcely be spoken of too highly, was paid a salary of £250 a year, but that he got that amount in some way or other out of this fund. In his opinion, if this compulsory payment was withdrawn able ministers would be well supported; and, instead of receiving a pittance from this House, they would, if worth their bread, earn it from the freewill offerings of their congregations. This paltry grant was a dishonour to those who received it, and nineteen-twentieths of the dissenting community of the three kingdoms would vote against it.
 MR. PEEL  said, he had received a letter that morning from the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield), asking him to put off the Vote till Monday, as he could not be present in the House that evening; but, having given notice that the Vote would be taken that night, and finding that many Members from Ireland had attended, expecting that it would now come on for discussion, he regretted that he could not accede to the hon. Gentleman's request.
 MR. WHITE  said, that if he had any doubt as to the Vote he should give, one remark made by the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) would have removed it. That hon. Member told the Committee that all Irishmen, Catholics and Protestants, were agreed on this question. Now, such unanimity was wonderful, and seemed possible to be brought about only by the opportunity of putting their hands into the pockets of the people. The Vote was most unjustifiable, and he regretted that the rejection of the whole sum had not been moved. It was also a matter of regret that the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) was unavoidably absent. He regarded the Vote as most mischievous in its effects on the Presbyterian religion itself. The Presbyterians were a most opulent body in Ireland, and they ought to be ashamed of persist-
 1303
 MR. PEEL  said, that in 1828 the Lord
 1306
 MR. WHITE  said, that this Vote was one of the most objectionable in the Estimates. He had often protested against it, and it was really wonderful to see what longevity belongs to a job—for a job he certainly considered this Vote to be, however un-Parliamentary the term might appear. Here, in the 19th century, they were voting a considerable sum in order to maintain in Scotland a Board for the purpose of branding Scotch herrings. Now, he could not conceive the use of such a Board. They were free traders or professed to be free traders, and yet for the sake of patronage they kept up some of the worst remnants of the old protection system. He must protest against the Vote. The sooner the whole system was got rid of the better. He wished to respect vested interests, and would not deprive those who held offices under the Fishery Board without due notice; but still he thought the whole system must be put an end to, and although he would not at present propose that reduction, or divide against the Vote, he hoped the new Parliament would altogether abolish it.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was quite aware that this matter had often been discussed in the Parliament which was about to expire; and he had no doubt it would also be discussed in the new Parliament. He believed, however, that no solid argument could be advanced against the Vote. The Estimate included a Vote of £3,427 for branding; but if his hon. Friend would turn to the items, he would find that a sum of £4,500 was paid back in the shape of fees for branding, so that the institution was in fact self-supporting. His hon. Friend said it was a remnant of the old Protectionist system. Possibly it might be so, but the position of matters was this—the herring fishing had thriven
 1307
 MR. PEEL  said, that £90,000 had been given to Ireland, and that no amount of a similar character had been given to Scotland.
 MR. PEEL  said, that with reference to the grant made to Ireland and Scotland, the Act by which the former country received the money was only temporary, and expired in 1830. The £5,000 a year formerly granted in Ireland was a free grant. The grant under consideration was to be on the same principle as the £90,000.
 MR. FLNLAY  said, it gave him great satisfaction to find that Ireland was not entirely forgotten by the Government. He wished to know what advantage had been or was expected to be derived from this grant. In Scotland they considered that flax was an exhaustive and undesirable crop injurious to the land. It seemed strange to offer premiums on the cultivation of such an article.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, these pensions would rest on the same footing as all others which were granted by Parliament. The constitutional practice was that all such pensions should be voted annually by this House, although the faith of Parliament might be pledged to their continuance. Of course, it was open to anybody to propose that Parliament should violate the engagement it had entered into, but this was not a probable contingency.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, there could not well be two things more entirely different than that of the contract to which his hon. and learned Friend had referred and the case now before the Committee. In the former ease the contract was never authorized by Parliament; but the Government thought fit to give the House an opportunity of expressing its opinion on the subject, because, when the money for the packet service was voted, specific words were inserted that no part of such money should be applied to the contract in question. But, with regard to the case now before the Committee, if at
 1322
 MR. CORRY  said, that in all cases in which the sanction of Parliament was required it ought to be required but once. They were told that this was a Bill to secure vested rights; but, if that were so, what need was there for subjecting the Vote to the annual revision of the House?
 MR. HENLEY  said, it was quite clear that the revenues of Greenwich Hospital were confiscated and merged in the national funds, and that all pensions connected therewith would in future depend upon the mercy and annual Votes of Parliament. The present officers did not appear to have confidence in "the faith of Parliament," or of the Government, as they ap-
 1321
 MR. CORRY  said, he questioned whether the pensioners would not feel it as a degradation that an old and distinguished admiral should be removed from the post of Governor. He was aware that under the Bill the present Governor would not be removed, but no admiral would in future be appointed as Governor.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he thought the profession would regard the abolition of the office with great regret.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he had every reason to rely on the undertaking of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary, but he hoped that not only in this case but in every other where fees were levied on British shipping the practice would be discontinued.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether it was his intention, in consequence of the numerous petitions that had been presented upon the subject, to open the National Galley three evenings in the week, in order that the labouring portion of the metropolis might have an opportunity of inspecting the works of art contained therein. The plan had been tried on particular occasions with perfect success, and was, in fact, adopted in the South Kensington Museum, without the slightest damage having occurred, he believed, to the pictures. Numerous petitions had been already presented in favour of opening the National Gallery three times a week, and the petitions were greatly on the increase. It was clear that the working classes could not visit these collections during the day, and thus they failed to exercise the elevating and beneficial influence upon the mass of the community which they were designed to promote, and which alone entitled them to the name of national collections. He held in his hand a list of resolutions in favour of thus opening these collections, agreed to in one part of London alone. It comprised 7 societies of young men, consisting of 655 members; 3 friendly societies, with 726 members; 13 building societies, with 5,130 members; 2 Christian congregations, of 1,700 persons; 2 bodies of teachers in schools, 61 in number; 12 temperance societies, registering 1,898 persons; 22 public meetings, attended by 9,003 persons; and the officers of a college
 1273
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, the officers at Greenwich Hospital, although they rose in rank, would not rise in pay.
 MR. C. P. BERKELEY  said, the medical officers would still have open to them the appointments to Greenwich Hospital. There was, however, another class of officers, who were altogether omitted from the Bill—namely, the Marine officers. They had subscribed to the funds of Greenwich Hospital as well as to that of Chelsea, but when they made any application they were told that they ought to be charged upon the funds of Chelsea Hospital, and when they applied there they were told
 1318
 MR. LYGON  said, he must deny that the post of the Governor of Greenwich Hospital was a sinecure. The  esprit de corps
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that if this office was to be kept up so much must be deducted from the emoluments of the other flag officers whom it was proposed to benefit by the present scheme. Was the money which it was intended to pay over to the other ten flag officers to be so paid, or was it to go to this great office?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he should be sorry if the hon. Member withdrew his Amendment, on the supposition that medical officers were intended to participate in the benefits of the scheme. Medical officers hold appointments in the Hospital at present, and those appointments they would not be deprived of, so that, as they lost nothing by the scheme, they could not fairly hope to derive benefit from it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) was mistaken in supposing that the funds of Greenwich Hospital were liable to be dealt with by Parliament. The Admiralty, as trustees of the Hospital, would be able to invest any funds of the Hospital without coming to Parliament at all.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could by no means agree to the Amendment, and he doubted whether any considerable number of officers of the navy would agree with his hon. and gallant Friend. Parliament was about to abolish various comfortable offices in the Hospital by this Bill, among them flag officers, and would it be consonant with justice to leave the Governor alone in full possession of his large income? It would be extremely unfair to the other officers to make this office an exception. The Bill, moreover, assumed that a Superintendent of the Hospital would be appointed, and he and the Governor would be something like the two Kings at Brentford. Such an alteration of the Bill would only lead to difficulty and dispute. The sum saved by the abolition of the office of Governor would be much better bestowed in pensions to flag officers than in maintaining a sinecure of this kind. He trusted that the Amendment would not be pressed.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the idea involved was that the dispensation of pensions should come, as it always had done, under the cognizance of that House.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he wished to express his gratitude to the right hon. Gentleman for the observations which had just fallen from him. The course adopted by his hon. Friend the Member for the King's County was, he thought, the most judicious which, under the circumstances, he could have adopted. The question was one which involved a great hardship, and one which was rather of a public than a private character, inasmuch as it affected the pockets of the ratepayers to the extent of £70,000, that being the sum expended on a school capable of containing 800 boys. It was proved in the evidence taken before the Committee that, although there was a large number of Roman Catholic boys in the schools, they might be taught a catechism of a creed at variance with their own, and that if they refused to learn that catechism they might be punished; while if the parents had the courage to make a report on the subject they were liable to fine. Though the parents might
 1266
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, that there was considerable doubt as to whether the grant in the case of Ireland had expired in 1830. He and other Members of the Irish Taxation Committee dissented from this conclusion, and thought it advisable that the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown should be taken on the subject.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to ask, as some time would necessarily elapse before the could provide a new site and building, if he was to understand, from what the right hon. Gen-leman the First Commissioner of Works had said, that her Majesty's Government did not intend to offer the ground at Burlington House for the Royal Academy?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought that the grant of these out-pensions would be liable to great abuses, and that they should come under the notice of Parliament every year just as other pensions did.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he desired, before they came to the part of the clause to which the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay) would apply, to call the attention of the Committee to the circumstance that the clause as it stood entirely excluded all claims on the part of merchant seamen to participate in the benefits of Greenwich Hospital, as out-pensioners, which benefits would be confined to the Royal Navy and Marines. There was no dispute that any man who was wounded or disabled in service in presence of an enemy or in defending his ship against pirates was entitled to the benefits of the Hospital. He thought that he should have been justified in extending the claim to the widows of such men; but as he understood that his hon.
 1316
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he wished to ask, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose an Estimate this year for the enlargement of the National Gallery, and if the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works would favour the Committee with an outline of his proposed plan.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the statement of the First Commissioner of Works was satisfactory in one respect—namely, that the National Gallery would remain where it is. It also appeared that the Royal Academy would have to go elsewhere, and that was equally satisfactory. He observed an item of £8,000 for the purchase of pictures; but there was also an item of £9,548 for three balances which were stated to be surrendered to the Exchequer. Was the National Gallery to have those balances in addition to the Vote of £8,000? There was a heavy item for the travelling agency last year, an expense of £2,000 having been incurred in the purchase of pictures, while the pictures themselves only cost £3,000.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that as he was not satisfied with the explanation given by the Secretary to the Treasury he should move that the Vote be reduced by the sum of £400 mentioned.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that although the Vote showed a small reduction it was still very large in amount, and he was afraid that superannuations were not granted according to any fixed principle.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he found on referring to page 48 an item of £400, by way of retiring allowance to Mr. Hood, late Consul at Buenos Ayres, who was described as being only thirty-one years of age, and as having been in the public
 1298
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he desired to impress upon the right hon. Gentleman that the Treasury should, whenever it was possible, find occupation for gentlemen whose offices had been abolished. He was afraid that there was some reluctance to adopt this course because it diminished the patronage of the Department.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought that the operations of the Persian Boundary Commission ought to be brought to an end.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought the Consul at St. Petersburg received more than he ought to receive, and unless this Vote were reduced Mr. Michele would most likely decline to accept another situation when offered.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought it remarkable that, although the local revenue was constantly increas-
 1281
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he had to complain of the diversity of authorities having control over this Vote. Some items were under the Admiralty and others under the Board of Trade. He wished to know whether the Board of Trade was going on prophesying the weather for the next two days. He believed that the head of that department was at present vacant. Was it the intention of the Government to fill it up? There were Returns presented to
 1278
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he did not object to the amount of the salary of the Consul General at Corfu, but he thought it was mere extravagance to allow £500 a year to the Consuls at Cephalonia and Zante.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the annual Vote for these extraordinary expenses had increased from under £20,000 to £36,400 within ten years. This Vote ought to be decreasing, in consequence of the increased facilities of communication, owing to railways and telegraphs. Such responsible persons were now unnecessary, as telegraphic messages could be sent direct from headquarters. He objected to the system of employing young attaches to become trained diplomatists, as young men in time must naturally become imbued with the principles and feelings of the countries wherein they resided. Whenever any duty of peculiar importance was to be transacted the system broke down, and an outsider was engaged to discharge it.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he could not agree with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Augustus Smith) that there was no advantage in having trained persons for the diplomatic service. The service was every year improving in this respect, and he thought no country was served by a more efficient or able body of gentlemen. The public were taking an increasing interest in the monthly Reports of our Secretaries of Legation
 1294
 MR. LAYARD  said, that in consequence of our long and intimate relations with the Ionian Islands there had arisen between the two countries a variety of interests which required the services of an unusual number of Consular agents. He did not believe that their salaries were at present excessive.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply to the hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith), said, that every effort was being made by the Foreign Office on behalf of the gentleman—Mr. Moens—to whom he referred, and the Italian Government was doing even more than could be expected from them. It was not advisable to say too much, but he might state that within a few hours intelligence had been received from Naples to the effect that the gentleman had been seen, was well, was fairly treated by the brigands, his captors, and that there were hopes of his speedy release. 1289 Pall Mall Gazette 1290
 MR. LAYARD  said, that during the American war, citizens of the so-called Confederate States had found a difficulty in obtaining the  visé visé s. 1291
 MR. LAYARD  said, the object of the Foreign Office was, of course, to dispense with all Consuls who were not absolutely required, and they had recently been enabled to effect that object to some extent in the ports of the Mediterranean, in consequence of the transfer of the Ionian Islands to the kingdom of Greece. As regarded Batoum, the place was so exceedingly unhealthy that it was impossible to reside there, except a few months in the winter time. The following statement, which had been drawn up by Mr. Murray of the Foreign Office, showed that the cost of the Consular service was not excessive:—
 "The management of the Consular expenditure since 1861 has now produced the result that was anticipated from adopting the system of placing the control exclusively in the hands of the Secretary of State. The sum actually expended under each head of service is accurately known, and the wants of the next year may confidently be stated. The payments on account of the Consular service have arrived at a stage which enables us to say that, while it is necessary to estimate a larger sum than may actually be spent, somewhat more than £155,000 will cover the annual requirements, for I we avoid increases unless we can make corresponding reductions. The payments for the last year were £155,425, but fees have been paid into the Exchequer of £15,546, so that the net cost to the public was only £139,879, although the sum voted was £166,503. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that there are items charged on the Consular grant for 1864–5 which really have nothing to do with carrying on the Consular service—namely, expenses of churches abroad, £10,355; expenses of hospitals abroad, £592; relief to distressed British subjects, £405; total, £11,352; so that in truth the Consular cost was only £128,527, a sum which can scarcely be called excessive."
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was not then prepared to answer so comprehensive a question, but every country had of course a right to determine what foreign agents it would receive.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he thought that all difficulty would be avoided if hon. Gentlemen would give notice of any Amendments they desired to propose.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the hon. Gentleman must be aware that the position of the Venetian territories with the great fortified cities of Venice, Mantua, and Verona was very exceptional, and it was well that we should have the means of communicating with the authorities through our Consul General, who was an old and well known servant of the Crown. The £800 was not mis-spent. By this means we had obtained very valuable and important information. As to the Vice Consul seventy ships must require constant attention. The Vice Consul at Trieste received only £100 a year, because he was allowed to trade.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he thought the hearty co-operation promised to this country by the United States Government would lead most effectually to a decrease, if not to the extinction, of the slave trade. Now that the civil war was at an end,
 1282
 MR. LAYARD  said, he had stated to the Committee in a former year that that addition to the salary of our Consul at St. Petersburg was exceedingly objectionable on principle, although, as the Correspondence presented to the House showed, there was really no grievance in the present case. Yet, as soon as an arrangement could be made, either by finding another post for Mr. de Michele, or by his retirement, the Consul at St. Petersburg would receive a salary adequate to his position, and that fee on British shipping would no longer be levied. Negotiations were pending, the result of which, he hoped, would be that the post would soon become vacant, when a new arrangement would be made. The Government would do their very best that Mr. de Michele should have another place; but it would be scarcely fair to deprive an efficient and long-tried public servant of the salary he had enjoyed for so many years, and which was attached to the office before he accepted it, without adequate compensation. He hoped his hon. Friend would accept the assurance he now gave that, unless he was greatly disappointed, next year this charge would not be made on British shipping; and that he would not divide the Committee on this occasion.
 MR. LAYARD  did not think the salary too high, considering how expensive a place St. Petersburg was, but he quite admitted that in principle it was objectionable that a salary should be supplemented by such means as his hon. Friend the Member for Hull had pointed out.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was certain that no difficulty would be raised on the part of Mr. de Michele, who was anxious to leave St. Petersburg, but of course he could make no promise with regard to the Estimates of next year, which must be left to the Treasury.
 MR. LAYARD  said, this was the only case of the kind, and it arose out of the old system of "British factories." He did trust that some better arrangement would be made before next year.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that he shared the anxiety which was generally entertained that the Turco-Persian Boundary Commission should bring its labours to a close, and would do his best to expedite their termination. The other Commission, upon
 1296
 Mr. LAYARD  said, that the sum voted was not for works, but for the expenses of the Commission.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was not quite certain, but he believed that the noble Lord was not formally attached to the mission, although acting as Mr. Elliott's private Secretary.
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was true the salary paid to our Minister at Pekin was large, although it had recently been considerably reduced, but his expenses were very great. It was not a question of hospitalities, but almost everything—even
 1293
 MR. LAYARD  said, he had no particular explanation to give regarding the item in question, and it was scarcely necessary to give one after the excellent defence of it made by the hon. Member himself. Mr. Elliott, our Minister at Greece, was engaged in visiting certain parts of that country, and in a portion of his journey he was accompanied by Viscount Amberley who acted as his private Secretary. When Ministers and other diplomatic officers were sent on any special mission they were frequently taken on board vessels of war, and in such cases some small allowance for expenses of entertainment was made by Government to the captain of the vessel. It was apparent from the manner in which the item was worded that there was no wish to conceal the nature of these charges, which were really very trifling in amount. In the same way, Government were always very glad to afford all the assistance in their power to persons engaged in good and benevolent works. In another part of the Estimate would be found a Vote of £48 for expenses of conveyance of Sir Moses Montefiore, from Gibraltar to Morocco, on board Her Majesty's ship  Magicienne
 MR. LAYARD  said, that this was not really a ease of the payment of travelling expenses, but of providing a passage where there was no regular means of communication. He was sure that if the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, notwithstanding his persistent opposition to Her Majesty's Government, found himself at some foreign port where no packets were plying, and one of Her Majesty's ships called there he would not be refused a passage.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I have much pleasure in seconding the Motion of the right hon. Baronet. I am sure that the event is one not more gratifying to Her Majesty than to this House and to all Her Majesty's subjects.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he hoped the Consul at St. Petersburg would not in the meantime be considered to have a vested interest in what he now obtained in an irregular way by fees on British shipping.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that the Vote was of considerable amount. There were charges for all the paraphernalia of a colonial Government, and he should like to hear from the Government what was the condition of things in the colony.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he observed that there was a considerable item—£3,000—for telegrams, and wished to know whether the money was expended for telegrams indicating the weather in different parts of this country only, or all over Europe. The Department appeared to have become more practical than scientific.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, there were many other societies quite as meritorious as this which received no grant of public money. On some future occasion the Committee might be called on to vote grants for the Antiquarian, Geological, Anthropological and Entomological Societies. The grants were not made on principle, but  pro re natâ,
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he demurred entirely to the doctrine of the necessity of giving notice, because the right of raising any matter without giving notice was the especial privilege of the Committee. The rule, as stated by the Chairman, was an extremely inconvenient one, and it might be advisable to consider whether it should not be repealed.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he desired to call the attention of the Committee to the case of the two unfortunate gentlemen who had recently been captured by brigands in Italy. One of them had been released, but the other—Mr. Moens—had been detained by his captors. He hoped that the hon. Gentleman would be able to state that the Foreign Office was taking some steps on behalf of this unfortunate gentleman.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that it had been thought expedient to maintain Labuan as a British colony on account of the coal mines which existed there, in order that we might have a coaling station in that neighbourhood.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the local revenue had increased from causes connected with the American war, but it had already begun to decline.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the Marine officers were expressly included in that list, while the medical officers were as expressly excluded from it. Not withstanding the assurance the hon. Gentleman had given them that medical officers were included in the general word "officers," some hon. Gentlemen had doubts on the subject which might easily be removed by the two or three words necessary being inserted in the interpretation clause.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he should like to have some explanation of what was really meant by the words "nothing in this Act or in any Order of Council shall give any person any title to a pension unless money is provided by Parliament for the payment thereof." Supposing a meritorious officer was entitled to and had granted him a pension of £1,000 a year out of the revenues of Greenwich Hospital, it appeared by this clause that no pension or annuity should be paid unless out of monies voted for that purpose by Parliament. Did that mean that such pensions should depend upon a Vote taken year by year in that House, and so that the source of livelihood of a person should he liable to be stopped by the Government, backed by a majority of the House? It might be thought that he alluded to a particular case, and it was quite true that he did so. A well known and distinguished officer was granted a pension, and the Ministry, having a command of a majority of the House, availed itself of its power, and intercepted the payment of money actually due to the individual to whom he referred.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he was not satisfied with the answer of the noble Lord. Suppose that under the Act a pension was granted, being approved by this House, would the grantee hold it independently of this House, or would it
 1320
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would move the omission of the clause, on the ground that if retained it would put it in the power of the Government for the time being, not by a Vote of the House, but of its own mere Motion, by simply omitting the Vote, to deprive persons who might be entitled to pensions of what was their right. And something of the same kind had been done in the case of a well known contract not long since. By the omission of the Ministers of the Crown to move a Vote for the payment of money actually due, an individual who had performed his contract was deprived of what was his due. What he desired was that the Government should distinctly pledge themselves to put this Bill into such a form that when once a pension was granted it should be the absolute property of the grantee, unless by some misdemeanor he forfeited his right to it.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, the present Vice Consul at Venice had been a trader whilst acting as Vice Consul also—he was formerly a banker, though some years ago he became bankrupt.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to call attention to the Consular Establishment at Venice, and asked from the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs some explanation of the grounds on which it was maintained. It appeared by reference to the Estimates that there was not only a Consul General with a salary of £800 a year, but a Vice Consul with £200 a year. He could understand why we should have kept up the present consular establishment in Venice, when the Austrian Government possessed not only Mantua and Venice, but also Lombardy; when English diplomatic agents in the Lesser Italian States were very few; and when the means of communication with the seat of Government were somewhat difficult; but now matters were very much altered. Austria had lost Lombardy, and the communications with Vienna exist both by railway and electric telegraph, and by the cession of the Ionian Islands the visits of British shipping had been very much reduced. At Venice the entries inwards of British ships for the year 1864 had been forty sailing vessels and thirty-one screw steamers running once a month from Liverpool and London. The latter were regular packets belonging to one company, and they absorbed the largest part of the carrying trade. There was, therefore, very little for a Vice Consul to do at Venice on that score. "What the Consul General did he could not conceive. Not only was there a Vice Consul at Venice with £200 a year, but there was also a Vice Consul at Trieste who had much more to do, but whose
 1286
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he wished to know whether the Committee were to understand that these portraits were not to be sent to South Kensington.
 MR. MOOR  said, he wished to ask what necessity there was of keeping a superintendent at Malta. It was a mistake to say that the cable was held under a lease from the Government until the 1st of January, 1867, because he believed that since the Estimates had been prepared it had been leased for forty-two years longer. If the cable had been so leased, what was the use of keeping a superintendent at Malta with no power over the working of the cable? The Estimate only gave the receipts for nine months, instead of the whole year, as it ought to have done.
 MR. MOOR  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not made out a case for retaining the superintendent an hour longer than was necessary for sending a telegraphic message from here to Malta dismissing him.
 MR. MOOR  said, he wished to inquire whether the medical officers were to be excluded from sharing in the advantages of the Hospital.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR : Surely the Committee could divide more than once on the same Vote.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, it was very difficult for an hon. Member to know what to do. He was desirous of calling the attention of the Committee to the charge for our Consul at Abyssinia, but he was unable to catch the eye of the Chairman. Another hon. Member who was more fortunate commenced a discussion upon a later item, and thus debarred him from making any remarks at all.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to inquire about the captives in Abyssinia. It appeared that Her Majesty's Consul, Captain Cameron, two missionaries, and some other individuals had remained for more than a year in captivity in Abyssinia, and the Foreign Office had not been able to procure their release. Upon a former occasion his hon. Friend had stated that anything spoken in that House would come to the knowledge of the King of Abyssinia and might tend to aggravate the misfortunes of the captives. It could not, however, be expected that silence was always to be maintained upon
 1288 nolo episcopari.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that if this rule, which he believed to be a new one, were persisted in they should have
 1287
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he had always understood that Russia had refused to allow us to have a Consul at Tiflis, because we had not received Russian Consuls in India. But as that refusal on our part no longer existed, he hoped we should be allowed to establish a Consulate at the important town of Tiflis.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know what were our present relations with Russia, and why Russia did not permit us to have a Consul at Tiflis?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask what course the Government were pursuing with regard to the suppression of Consulates in Turkey. No doubt many of the Consuls in the interior of Asia Minor were no longer required, though he certainly regretted the suppression of the Consulate at Batoum.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the clause would not exclude them as they came within the general word "officers." There would be two occasions annually when the matter could be discussed. In the first place, when the Orders of Council in reference to the Hospital were laid upon the table, and secondly, when the Vote in aid of the Hospital was proposed. But he repeated that it was not at present intended to give additional pensions to medical officers.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman did not seem to have ascertained what the effect would be of subsequent clauses of the Bill. Under the 13th clause, for example, existing officers would be compensated by way of annuities purchased at the National Debt Office without the necessity of an annual Vote, or its being requisite that the names of the officers should appear on the Estimates. The operation of the clause under discussion would be simply to place Greenwich future pensioners in the same category as those in existence in connection with the army and the navy.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would take care that the wishes of the hon. and learned Member (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) should receive attention.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that as it was the object of this Bill to maintain unaltered the rights of all parties as they now existed, he could not consent to include in this clause the widows of merchant seamen; nor did he think that it would be desirable to introduce the Amendment recommended by the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for "Wakefield (Sir John Hay). The means by which he proposed to effect the object aimed at by the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) was the insertion in this clause, authorizing the grant of pensions to certain classes of persons, of the words "and seamen of the merchant service for the time being entitled to the benefits of Greenwich Hospital."
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he could not consent to the proposed Amendment, as
 1317
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the clause did not affect individuals, but simply operated to give pensions to certain classes. He should take care that the interpretation clause was so framed that the word "officers" should bear the usual construction of that word in matters relating to the Hospital.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that subsequent clauses would provide for the investment of the balance precisely as it was now invested. With regard to the clause to which objection had been taken, it should be looked into, and if it was found open to the objection that had been raised it should be altered.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the clause did not refer in the smallest degree to existing rights, which were all provided for under Clause 13. The clause before the Committee simply related to future pensions to officers, exactly like good service pensions now, which were voted in the gross every year by the House, after having once come separately before it for approval. It was simply proposed to put the two classes of pensions on the same footing.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he quite endorsed what had fallen from the hon. Baronet as to the eminent services of Sir Richard Bromley; but what was the real question as to this clause r Under the Superannuation Act an officer already in receipt of a superannuation allowance, on obtaining fresh employment, was entitled only to draw a sufficient amount of superannuation allowance to make up, together with his fres employment, the full amount of
 1327
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Greenwich Hospital funds were not intended for large salaries for insufficient work. He hoped the House would adhere to the principle of the Bill, which was that as many pensions as possible should be granted.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the scope of the Bill was that for the future, after the death of the present Governor and Lieutenant Governor, there should not remain at Greenwich Hospital great sinecure offices, and he trusted that the House would agree to the plan of abolishing sinecures and supplying their place by a large number of moderate pensions. Pensions of a moderate amount would be given to different ranks of the service, and there would be ten pensions to flag officers of £150 a year each.
 MR. CLAY  said, that there was a very simple mode of rectifying this grievance to the shipping interest, amounting to £1,000 a year. If the Government could not provide for Mr. de Michele otherwise, let him be paid as other Consuls were—a proper and sufficient salary being brought forward in the Estimates. If his hon. Friend would promise that, he would not divide on this Vote.
 MR. CLAY  said, that for many years a body called the Russian Company levied charges on British shipping in the Russian ports, a system altogether out of date, and so wholly indefensible that the company itself had given up all these charges with one exception. The company now existed only for the purpose of distributing the revenue arising from its own accumulated funds, and which were exceedingly well spent in charities at St. Petersburg. The solitary charge which they still levied on British shipping was called agency money, yielding about £1,100 per annum; and it had always gone to the British Consul at St. Petersburg, who was also the company's agent; that charge on shipping being, in fact, a way of supplementing the insufficient salary of the Consul. In 1858, 1859, and 1860 the Consul's salary was raised from £750 to £1,000, and it was then quite understood that the charge for agency moneylevied on British shipping should cease. However, whether the Consul thought that £1,100 per annum was better than an extra £250 to his allowance, or whether for some other reason, the charge for agency money had been resorted to again, to the surprise of the shipowners, and was still levied to this day. He had the authority of the Chairman of the Russian Company for saying that they had no wish to continue that impost, a relic of a barbarous age, and that if the Consul were prevented from receiving it they would not appoint another agent, and so the charge would cease. The charge had been condemned by Lord Napier in his despatches to Lord Russell as an unusual and objectionable mode of remunerating the Consul. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had said it could not be defended, and that when the next Consul at St. Petersburg was appointed it would be
 1283
 MR. CLAY  said, he must repeat his question; would the salary of the Consul at St. Petersburg be placed next year on a proper footing?
 MR. CLAY  said, his hon. Friend might be disappointed in his expectations. He was quite certain the Government would do all they could in the matter, but they might not be able to find another appointment for Mr. Michele, or if they did that gentleman might not accept it. Would the hon. Gentleman in that case put a proper salary on the Estimates and relieve the shipping from this obnoxious tax?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the last speaker had been singularly ill-informed on the matter of history. In his patriotic dislike to any grant, the hon. Gentleman was of opinion that this grant had its origin in Parliamentary corruption. This was the product of the hon. Gentleman's imagination—an entire hallucination—as nothing of the kind occurred. If he (Mr. Whiteside) read the history of Ireland aright, the first person who made the grant to the old Presbyterian settlers was a sovereign of whom the hon. Member might, perhaps, have heard, King William III. By his express desire, in consideration of great
 1301
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to ask, Whether a licence has been granted to the Convocation of Canterbury to repeal or alter any of the Canons of 1603, or to obtain the sanction of the Crown to any New Canon; and, if so, whether a Copy of it will be laid upon the table? If no such licence has been granted, he wished to know whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to recommend Her Majesty to give Convocation permission to repeal or alter any of the Canons of 1603?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the office was a very important one, and ought to be filled up. He wished to know who had the appointment.
 MR. WYLD  called attention to the charge of £1,456 17 s. d., fac simile Doomsday Book
 MR. BLAKE  corroborated the statement of the Chief Secretary for Ireland that the expenditure of the money had done great good, and as he was to some extent instrumental in getting up the deputation which waited on the noble Lord last year, should also add that they were led to hope that the grant would have been of a larger character, and was glad i to find that the advantage resulting from it was so manifest as to induce the Government to increase the amount. He would beg hon. Members who seemed disposed to oppose the Vote, to consider whether it was not justified quite as much on Imperial grounds as from any advantage likely to result to Ireland. The disasters occasioned to the manufacturing interest, and which fell heavily on the labouring portion of the English population, must still be fresh in their memory, and they knew it was occasioned by the impossibility of obtaining sufficient cotton, owing to the disastrous war in America. If they had sufficient textile material produced at a moderate price in the United Kingdom they would be quite independent of foreign supply, and would not be subject to a similar calamity in the way of thousands of their people being thrown out of bread as lately occurred. It was, therefore, good policy of the Government to endeavour to promote flax cultivation in Ireland, as it would tend to make them independent of other countries for their supply of textile materials; and, besides, the money paid in Ireland for flax would come back to them again in the purchase of other species of British manufacture.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask when any part of the work would be completed.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he was sorry that the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White), in the warmth of his opposition
 1304
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he doubted the propriety of the Motion made by the hon. Gentleman, inasmuch as there was a Standing Order of the House to the effect that a Private Bill should not pass a stage unless notice were given by the agent. No such notice had been given, and the hon. Member was therefore, in his opinion, quite right in not pressing his Motion.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was not out of order in doing so, as the question involved was one of privilege.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he rose to present two petitions from the prisoners Marshall and Whitehead. They were worded in precisely similar terms. The petitioners stated that they were taken into custody on a charge of contempt of the House—that in consideration of having been kept in confinement for a week, and of their having acted in entire ignorance of the offence for which they were committed, they prayed that the House would consider the punishment which they had already undergone sufficient. Upon those grounds, as well as upon the fact that the petitioners had expressed their sincere regret and contrition for the offence they had been guilty of, he begged to move that the petition be laid upon the table with a view to the prisoners being discharged from custody. 1267 brought up,
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the two petitioners in question were unable to pay the fees which were demanded of them, and that to insist upon their doing so would be simply to inflict on them a more prolonged confinement. Under these circumstances he begged to move that they be discharged from custody.
 MR. HENNESSY , who had given notice of his intention to move that this Bill should be taken into consideration tomorrow, said, that the measure was in rather a peculiar position. It was a Bill promoted by the Middlesex magistrates to increase their power over industrial
 1264 1265
 MR. HENNESSY  said, the Vote had been opposed hitherto by English Members only, and those were Members of a peculiar class—Voluntaries. On the other hand, he believed the Vote was supported by Irish Members of every section; no Vote excited greater unanimity among Irish Members than that for the support of the Presbyterian clergy. The statement that it was recommended by King William III. was not, in his mind, an argument in favour of the Vote. The fact was that at the time of the Union the Presbyterian clergy of the North of Ireland opposed the Union. In this, he thought, they acted the part of patriots; but if Lord Castlereagh intended to bribe them by what he then proposed he certainly did not succeed in his object.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he might instance the case of Hugh Corr, who was now eighty-two years of age, who had been for half a century in the employment of the Government in Ireland, and who received a retiring allowance of only £12 3 s. d.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to revert to the subject of Viscount Amberley, and to inquire what was the rule laid down by the Government as to the payment of travelling expenses. Must a man, for instance, be the son of a Peer or a Member of that House? If he knew what was the rule he would do his best to qualify himself under it.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the grants to Scotland and Ireland originated in the same Act of Parliament, but it had been perpetuated to Scotland, and had not to Ireland. Unless the Government were prepared to treat both countries in the same manner he should feel bound to oppose the Vote.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that Scotland had received £3,000 a year for forty years, making a total of £120,000.
 MR. HENNESSY  wished to ask a question of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Treasury. The Vote before the Committee included a sum of £3,000 for piers and quays in Scotland. The hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) would tell the right hon. Gentleman that at this moment the fishermen in Ireland were very anxious to obtain the means of repairing the piers and quays, which assistance had been promised at the same time of the Union, and which had been given for many years by the House. The Secretary to the Treasury was aware that a grant of £5,000 a year had for a long time been paid to the fishermen of Ireland; but it had been stopped some years ago, and he wished to know why it should not be continued. They had just had the Report laid on the table upon Irish Taxation, and the very last paragraph of that Report stated that in Ireland for a number of years the fishermen received aid from the Government. It ceased some years ago, and the Committee recommended that the Government should re-consider the propriety of again extending the same assistance to the fishermen of Ireland. He wished to know what steps the Government were prepared to adopt under these circumstances, with the view of carrying out the recommendations of the Committee?
 MR. HENNESSY  complained of this money being given exclusively to the south and west of Ireland, whereas it was equally wanted in the King's and other central counties, which took a great interest in the flax movement. He would remind the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Marsh) that in the reign of King William III. it was attempted to put down the Irish woollen trade, and that for ages the efforts of the English Parliament had been directed to the repression of the manufactures of Ireland, to which cause her present condition was mainly attributable. It was only fair that Parliament should now make some attempts to remedy past mis-legislation, but he thought the Vote was paltry in amount.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to the item of £42 14 s. "Hon. H. Elliott, Viscount Amberley, and Mr. G. Conyngham, on board Her Majesty's ship  Phœbe, Liffey, Phœbe Liffey 1295 The Times,
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that he had an Amendment to propose, which would come in before that of the hon. Gentleman. This clause provided that pensions should be granted to "officers," and defined them to be "captains, commanders, lieutenants, masters, paymasters, and warrant officers." Prom a Report signed by the Junior Lord of the Admiralty, which had been presented to the House, it appeared that according to the interpretation placed upon it by the Government, the term "officers" did not include medical officers or chaplains. Chaplains were dealt with by a subsequent clause, and therefore medical officers were the only class of officers who were excluded from the benefits of this Bill. This was the more unjust because the Commissioners who inquired into the state of Greenwich Hospital reported that the only part of the establishment which required no reform was that which was under the control of the medical staff. The hon. Member concluded with his Amendment proposed, that in Clause 5, line 12, after the word "officers" the words "medical officers" be inserted.—(Mr. Hennesy.)
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to know exactly in what position the medical officers were to stand, as the only paper purporting to give a list of those who were to share in the advantages of the Hospital expressly excluded medical officers. The only way of settling the matter was to insert the words.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, after the assurance of the Junior Lord of the Admiralty, that the medical officers were included in the word "officers," he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. VANCE  said, he thought that this grant ought to be treated on the same footing as the Maynooth grant, and placed upon the Consolidated Fund. It would then be taken out of the arena of political controversy. Sir Robert Peel was asked whether he would make a proposal to this effect, and replied that if any Member would do so he would support the Motion. If the present Secretary for Ireland would submit such a proposal it would receive general support from Irish Members, and would prevent every year much unnecessary and unpleasant discussion. It had been stated that the Presbyterian congregations could well afford to support their own clergy, but they were not so wealthy as dissenting congregations in Yorkshire, and he knew that some of them could not afford to do so. As to the proposed increase for the support of new ministers, that was a part
 1302
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he thought it was somewhat irregular to make such a Motion without notice.
 MR. MARSH  said, he thought it was contrary to all principles of political economy for Parliament to grant money for the encouragement of any particular crop in any part of the British territories. Flax ever since the days of Virgil was considered a most exhausting crop.
 MR. MARSH  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of this Vote. He wished to know by what process of arithmetic three-fifths of £500, the expenses of the Government Superintendent at Malta, came to £500, as charged in the Estimates?
 MR. MARSH  said, he was not at all interested in the dispute between Scotland and Ireland, because he maintained that neither country ought to receive anything at all. The practice of giving encouragement by means of Government money was contrary to the principles of free trade.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he thought the words in the clause sufficiently large to include all officers.
 MR. HASSARD  said, he thought that it was clear from one of the sections of the Bill that all investments of the funds of the Hospital were to be made by the Admiralty exclusively for the benefit of the Hospital. By another clause Parliament would have the power of annually revising the pensions, but no injury could accrue to the recipients unless the Government neglected to ask the House to vote the annual grant.
 MR. INGHAM  said, that this matter had been before debated, and that he, as one of the Commissioners, had already expressed his agreement with the Report and his concurrence in the desire to preserve an office which had been held by so many distinguished sailors who had cast lustre upon the appointment.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, that it was proved before the Irish Taxation Committee that the Irish fishery suffered from the want of an authentic brand such as was supplied by the Fishery Board in Scotland.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to know whether in the new buildings to be added to the National Gallery it was contemplated to devote any building for the proper exhibition of the national portraits. No one could properly see them where they now were, and as the number who wished to do so was increasing every year it became a matter of importance that they should be better placed. The pictures were only open for exhibition on a certain number of days, and then only for a limited number of hours. Lately they had been open up to five o'clock, and that was a great convenience. Would the right hon. Gentleman see whether better accommodation for the pictures and increased facilities for the public could not be afforded for a collection which was likely to form a very good historical gallery?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that in support of the retention of the office he might advert to the hardships inflicted on admirals serving on foreign stations, where their appointment, instead of being a source of emolument, occasioned great expense to them. If any compensation for that hardship could be given it ought not to be refused. He said this, having been the Chairman of the Committee. Take this one prize of the Governorship away and the principal one was removed. He did not think that other officers in the navy would be jealous by its falling into distinguished hands. The continuance of this office, as a prize for the reward of conspicuous merit, would benefit the profession.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the clause expressed what its framers hardly meant to convey. It declared that this House was to determine annually whether these pensions were to continue or not. The intention of the Government, no doubt, was that the pensions, though the amounts were to be voted annually, should not be called in question after being once granted; if that were so, the clause should be framed accordingly.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Government paid for all the telegrams sent by them to different parts of the United Kingdom and to foreign countries, but, no doubt, a certain portion of expense in connection with this matter was defrayed by foreign Governments.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the collection of the Returns was not absolutely given up, but was very much diminished.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his hon. Friend had underrated the reputation which the late Admiral Fitzroy enjoyed in the scientific world. He (Mr. Milner Gibson) was only speaking the opinion of those best qualified to give one that the late admiral did a great service in perfecting—in carrying forward—the science of meteorology; and not only had his efforts been acknowledged by scientific men in this country, but they had also been recognized by some of the ablest scientific men in France. He would explain how it was the Board of Trade had to do with this question. Some years ago there was a congress at Brussels, composed of representatives of the principal maritime powers, who decided that it was desirable that ocean statistics should be collected in order that navigators might know what to expect, as it were, in different latitudes and longitudes at different seasons of the year, and thus be assisted in the long voyages round the globe. The English Government agreed to co-operate with France, the United States, and other Governments, in supplying their quota of information and collecting the ocean statistics. It was necessary to supply the merchant vessels with forms to fill up in the course of their voyages, and which were, in fact, to be the means of collecting these statistics; and the Board of Trade being most in connection with those vessels, they were naturally employed to distribute these forms. The collection of these statistics went on for some time, but it had since been very much given up, and they had got into another system, which was not originally contemplated, of predicting—making forecasts—of the weather, and attempting to give a practical application to what was called the science of meteoro-
 1279
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the effect of a railway upon Greenwich Observatory was for the consideration of the Admiralty, not of the Board of Trade.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask where the Royal Academy of Music was—["Hanover Square!"]—and who managed it?
 MR. SCULLY  said, he did not understand whether the money proposed for Ireland was to be advanced by way of loan or grant. It might be interesting to the House, too, to know whether the Crown brand was a broad arrow or not.
 MR. SCULLY  said, many Presbyterians 'in Ireland repudiated the attempt that was made last Session to increase this beggarly grant, and in voting for the grant he did so that it might remain in  statu quo.
 MR. SCULLY  said, the encouragement of flax cultivation in Ireland was of the utmost importance, but it was still a doubtful question whether it was really beneficial or injurious to the land. The Vote was not accurately described. This money was really granted for the
 1310
 MR. SCULLY  remarked that all kinds of rubbish had been shot into these "miscellaneous expenses." A sum of £3,000 for robes, collars, badges, &c., for the knights of the several orders was a very large one for such a purpose, and there was an item of £401 for the purchase and conveyance of sheep presented to the Viceroy of Egypt.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, If he is aware that large and increasing arrears of Untaxed Bills of Costs have been accumulating in the Taxing Office of the Irish Court of Chancery since the death of the late Taxing Master O'Dwyer, and also to inquire when a new Taxing Master will be appointed?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he had, like other gentlemen, sometime ago received envelopes which appeared to be filled with papers or billets which more or less resembled what the hon. Member described them, and he need hardly say that they had at once found their way into the waste-paper basket. He had no reason to suppose that they had been sent to public officers in particular, and he was not aware it was anything that could be called a circulation. He imagined it was the act of some unauthorized persons, and he had certainly not thought it his duty to take any notice of it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his hon. Friend might rest assured that if the object was one fit to be promoted by a public grant at all the persons in whose hands the grant was placed were perfectly competent to administer it. One of the Governors was Sir George Clerk, formerly a Member of the House, as good a man of business as ever sat in the House, an enthusiastic lover of music, and a faithful friend and patron of the Institution. The Institution might be described as a normal school of music. It was perfectly open, and therefore worthy of public support. Its object was to teach teachers, and the effect of the moderate aid afforded by the House had been to give a considerable stimulus to voluntary exertion, and cause a large annual addition to private subscriptions. This, indeed, was made a condition of the grant.
 MR. COX  said, he wished to know to what purpose this £5,000 was applied. Was it for instruction in the manipulation of the crop, or was it an encouragement merely for the growth of it?
 MR. COX  said, he had no intention to offer any disrespect to the Presbyterians of Ireland, but he entirely objected to any grant out of the Consolidated Fund for the support of any particular form of religion. More than 200 years ago the Presbyterian body was brought from Scotland into Ireland by the Crown, no doubt with a view to the planting of their creed there. That might have been a right and proper proceeding at the time it was taken; but the Irish Presbyterians were now Dissenters from the Established Church, and one of the distinctive principles of their dissent was a desire to be free and independent of the State. He regretted the absence of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield), and knew that he was attending to his Parliamentary duties in the borough that he represented. That hon. Gentleman, though desirous of being present to move the entire rejection of that Vote, had to address a meeting of his constituents that evening. The mode in which that grant was distributed had the effect of causing a subdivision of congregations for the purpose of securing more of the public money. As a member of the Established Church himself, he thought it was the duty of every denomination to support its own religion out of its own means. On that ground he would vote for the Motion of the hon. Baronet to reduce the Vote, and if that Motion failed he would himself divide the House on behalf of his hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield against the entire Vote.
 MR. COX  said, he accepted the disparity of Members as an indication that the House in its present state was disposed to support the Vote. He would not divide the Committee on the main question, but promised, if he were returned to the new Parliament, on every occasion to exert his hostility to it.
 MR. MITFORD  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether the trustees could not open the National Gallery on the days when it was now closed, at a charge of 6 d. s. 1275
 COLONEL SYKES  said, these Estimates were so voluminous, and included so many important matters, that they ought to be referred to a Committee to report upon them.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had to complain of the length of time during which the Persian Boundary Commission had been in existence.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to call attention to the fact that while the outlay on stamps on Treasury issues for all these embassies was as small as 9 s. d.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought that £8,000 was too large a salary to be paid our Minister at Pekin, who could not have to dispense extensive hospitalities as at Paris and Vienna. As contrasted with that, only £200 was allowed to the surgeon there, a sum quite insufficient to support a gentleman. There was £500 for an assistant and accountant at Pekin, and £500 for the Colonial Auditor at Hong Kong. What moneys had he to audit? The Attorney General at Hong Kong received £250 out of this Vote, though he had a full salary from the Colonial Estimates. The importance and trade of Canton had decreased by one-half, and yet we still paid the Consul there £1,600 a year, and the Interpreter £700, and kept up an expensive establishment.
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, he, on the part of the Committee of Petitions, had no wish that the House should proceed with undue severity in the present instance. What was chiefly desired was to show that the authority of the House was sufficient to repress practices which militated against the fair exercise of the right of petition. He hoped, therefore, that, inasmuch as those persons now in custody expressed their contrition for the offence they had committed, and had been only guilty in the second degree, and the authority of the House had in their case been vindicated, no opposition would be made to the Motion.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he was strongly of opinion that the Vote ought to be abolished altogether. He objected to any sums being voted by Parliament for the support of any man's religion. The principle was opposed to the interests of the denominations and to those of the ministers themselves. If the Vote were abolished these ministers would receive better salaries from their congregations, who could well afford to pay them, than
 1300
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. and gallant Gentleman must be mistaken in thinking that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given any pledge whatever. [Major KNOX: He told the deputation that he would consider the matter.] The Government had considered the matter and were clearly of opinion that no increase could be made.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the rule was analogous to that which guided the deliberations of the House when in Committee upon any Bill. In Committees of that kind no Amendment could be submitted on any portion of a clause previous to that portion on which an Amendment had been proposed. But on the question that the clause should stand part of the Bill any hon. Member could object to the whole or any portion of the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, an application had been made to him by the War Department with regard to the employment of convicts upon the works at the Bermudas. No formal determination had been come to on the subject, but he thought it inexpedient to restore the convict establishment' in the colony, except in case of necessity, and he hoped that other means would be found to execute the works there.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he hoped the Bill would remove the evil of which the Roman Catholics complained, and regretted very much the course the magistrates had taken in abandoning the Bill, because of the very reasonable provision which had been introduced into it with the unanimous concurrence of the Committee. It was not possible to bring in a public measure this Session, but the question was one which he admitted was worthy of consideration.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , said, that the Report of the Committee proved that the persons in question had been merely agents in the hands of others. They had now been in custody for nearly a week, and he thought that, as they had expressed their contrition for what they had done, the House would be only acting with the usual consideration under such circumstances in agreeing to the Motion. The amount of the fees which they were liable to pay was, he understood, £10, and, as they were in a humble position of life, to insist upon the payment of that sum might involve their being kept in custody for the remainder of the Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the other night I stated that the Archbishop of Canterbury had been informed that while the
 1270
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, before proceeding to the Orders of the Day, I wish to make a Motion which I am sure will be received with the cordial concurrence of this House. In consequence of the happy event which has taken place since the House last met, I have to propose that the. House should agree to an humble Address to Her Majesty to congratulate Her Majesty that the Princess of Wales has given birth to another Prince, and to assure Her Majesty of our loyalty and attachment to Her Person and Family.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he was very loth to withdraw his proposal. It must be recollected that the office of Master and Governor stood on a different footing from that of other officers appointed to Greenwich Hospital for the fulfilment of various duties within it. He would appeal to the hon. Member for South Shields (Mr. Ingham) whether the Commissioners did not devote considerable time to the matter, and whether they were not of opinion that the Master and Governor was appointed on the ground of his merits in his profession, and not for the benefit of the Institution. From the first to the last an officer of the most distinguished qualities and character had been elected to that appointment, which was one coveted very earnestly by the members of the navy.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he thought that the Report of the Royal Commission contemplated very distinctly the maintenance of the post of Master and Governor of Greenwich Hospital. The Commissioners paid great attention to the subject, and they found there was very strong reason for maintaining that office, even though it might be considered in some degree a sinecure. Much more benefit was conferred by it upon the navy than there would be by frittering the amount away in five or ten pensions. His object was to move the omission in the tenth line of the clause of the words "and of Governor," in order to retain that office. It was the only prize at present open to distinguished officers of the navy, though in the sister service various regiments were open to old officers. From its commencement it had been held by men eminent for their merits in the profession. It had been looked forward to as the prize of honourable ambition by officers of the rank of admiral; and he felt quite sure that the navy would
 1323
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he wished to suggest the insertion of words authorizing the Admiralty to grant pensions as well as gratuities to the widows of non-commissioned officers and men. The grant of a pension was not always the best mode of providing for widows, but it would be well that the Admiralty should have power to make such provision in cases in which they might think it appropriate.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he thought the matter would be much complicated by interpolating the words "medical officers," those officers being included in the general term "officers." It would be invidious to name them alone.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he believed the majority of the profession was in favour of the retention of the office. He thought that the officers of the navy would much rather have the one great office of Governor retained than that there should be a great number of officers at small pensions.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that the opinion of the Committee having been so evenly balanced on the subject of his Amendment, he should deem it right to take the sense of the House on it again upon the Report.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that if
 1324
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, the question which had just been raised justified the objection which he had raised on a former occasion, as to the indistinctness of the Bill. He entirely agreed in the opinion that medical officers ought to share in the pensions, but neither medical officers nor engineer officers—who likewise should be—were included in the Bill. If there had been a schedule to the Bill they might have been inserted. At present there was no guide as to the mode of dealing with these pensions. The Bill was most indistinctly worded, and the paper which had been laid before the House for the purpose of explaining the Bill omitted the two classes of officers from the list of those who were to share in the benefits of the charity.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he could not understand why this noble Hospital, with its income of £150,000 a year, should have every part of its expenditure voted by Parliament.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that such a proceeding would not have been sanctioned by the Government. He was not aware that any tickets had been distributed by the Irish constabulary. Tickets, he believed, had been forwarded to them, but he was not aware that they had distributed them. After the opinion expressed the other night by the Attorney General, and, indeed, without it, the constabulary would have been liable to censure if they had distributed tickets of this kind.
 SIR. ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Presbyterian body, so far from being a mendicant body, was highly respectable, and worthy of every consideration on the part of Parliament. There was an arrangement that when a congregation consisted of more than a certain number of families a fresh congregation should be formed; and the increase in the Vote was occasioned by the formation of fresh congregations. He was glad that the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) was not in the House, for his absence proved that the hon. Member had withdrawn his opposition to the Vote, finding opposition useless. The hon. Member for Wycombe (Mr. Mills) stated truly enough that Dr. Cooke received a salary as agent for this fund. He received £320 a year for salary and allowances, stationery, postage stamps, &c, as agent for the Ministers of the General Assembly, not as a minister of the Presbyterian Church. There was also a salary paid to the agent of the Ministers of the Remonstrant Synod of Ulster of £230, which made up the £550 stated in the Vote. He hoped the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Crossley) would not go to a division.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that one volume had already been issued this year, and another volume might be expected in the course of a few months.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Scully) had just stated the purpose. It would be applied towards the payment of instructors to teach the small farmers in the south and south-west of Ireland how they should manipulate their flax crops without injuring the ground. The money would be placed for distribution in the hands of the Royal Dublin Society and Royal Agricultural Society of Ireland. A Return had been published, in which it was shown
 1311
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Prime Minister, in consequence of the representations made by a deputation that waited upon him last year, agreed to insert a Vote in the Estimates for the encouragement of flax in Ireland, believing that it would be productive of great good to that country. At the request of the Irish Members £2,000 was granted last year, which had proved so useful that the sum was increased. This was the last year, he believed, it would be given. It did not appear to be an exhausting crop in Ireland, for in Ulster flax had been grown continuously for many years with the greatest success.
 MR. PEEL  said, that the charge for robes, collars, &c, must of course vary according to the number of appointments. It was larger this year than last because the appointments by Her Majesty had been more numerous. Formerly the knights paid for their own robes, &c., but a few years since it was decided that they should be no longer called upon to do so,
 1314
 MR. PEEL  said, that with regard to the fac simile Doomsday Book,
 MR. PEEL  said, that three-fifths of the superintendent's salary was paid out of the Imperial Treasury, and two-fifths by the Indian Government, the line having been laid down at the joint expense of both Governments. Four or five years ago the cable was leased to Messrs. Glass and Elliott up to 1867, and it had since been sub-let with the sanction of the Government to the present company, and the result was that the Imperial Government received one-half of the gross receipts of the line. The lessees were bound to certain conditions, and it was necessary to have a superintendent on the spot to see that the line was properly worked and the fair share of the earnings given to the Government. The sum of £500 in the Estimate was the share of the Imperial Government of his salary. The money was well expended in having such an officer on the spot. Since the Estimates had been prepared negotiations had been entered into for further leasing the line. The line, it would be remembered, broke down last year, and great difficulty was experienced in restoring its working condition. Having been constructed for deep water, it gave way when sunk in shallow water. In consequence of what had happened it was deemed desirable to enter
 1312
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he meant to move the omission of the clause—
 "Provided that if any Commissioner or any officer who was removed from office was at the commencement of that Act in receipt of any superannuation allowance in respect of any former employment in the Civil Service, he should be entitled to continue to receive, in addition to the annuity given under a previous provision, the amount of superannuation allowance of which he was in receipt at the commencement of that Act, and no more." "Whereas Sir Richard Maddox Bromley, night Commander of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath, and now one of the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, will be entitled upon the passing of this Act to an annuity for his
 1326 ex post facto
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that these pensions did not stand on all-fours with those which were granted out of the taxation of the country, and which were, therefore, rightly open to the annual revision of Parliament; they were derived from a fund applicable for certain purposes. He wished to know what was to become of the surplus revenue, supposing the whole of it should not be expended.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the Report of the Irish Taxation Committee was not yet before them, and so it was premature perhaps to enter minutely into this discussion. It might be stated, however, that the Committee thought that the Law Officers of the Crown ought to have their attention directed to this question. He thought it undesirable and inconvenient to discuss the question now. When the Report was brought up it might be necessary to take the opinion of the House on the matter.
 MR. CAVE  expressed his approval of the main object of the measure. He believed that the congregating in almshouses and asylums of people who had been accustomed to a totally different kind of life, and worrying them with rules and regulations, was a kind of charity much more agreeable to the giver than to the receiver. There was, in fact, too often more ostentation than charity in such arrangements. You might keep birds in a gilded aviary, with all appliances for their comfort, but the birds would rather live a much rougher life in their native woods. So far, he thought, the Bill proceeded in the right direction. When he came to the provision for the staff whose employment would be at an end, he saw that there at least there was no evidence of the ingratitude of Governments, and he could not help feeling that the best post under the Crown was that of an abolished officer. But though not only titles and salaries but even the residences of the abolished officers were to be continued to them—["No, no!"]—this was certainly the case with some, no one could doubt that—there must be a very considerable quantity of building for which no present use could be found, and he ventured to suggest a manner in which a portion might be disposed of. Every one who had passed up and down the Thames was familiar with the  Dreadnought, Dreadnouyht 1315 Dreadnought,
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he supposed it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to make the communication between this country and India perfect in less than forty years.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to call attention to an item of £3,000 for robes, collars, badges, &c, for the Knights of the several orders, and intimated that he should on some future occasion call the attention of the House to this matter. The next item he saw had reference to the Tower of London. Within the Tower of London there was one of the smallest but, at the same time, one of the most interesting of churches, that of St. Peter  ad vincula. 1313
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he merely desired to know who those functionaries were.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to know who the hackney carriage attendants were who were set down for superannuation allowances at page 54?
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to ask for some information respecting the Vote of £3,500 for the Commission employed on the regulation of the navigation of the Danube.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he understood that a railway was projected which it was supposed would interfere with the scientific labours carried on at Greenwich Observatory. It was of the greatest importance not only to this country, hut also to the world, that nothing should be done to interfere with the delicate observations in course of operation there. It was obvious that the running of railway trains near the Observatory would be injurious, and he trusted that the Government would prevent any such interference.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to know what course he was to pursue, as he desired to call the attention of the Committee to the item under the head of Rome.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he wished to know whether any alteration had been made in the system of passports issued at Rome to British subjects coming home  viâ gens d'armes viâ
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, that after two Committees had been sitting on the question, and after the very warm debate which had taken place a few days ago on the subject, hon. Members could be scarcely prepared for such a Motion as that of the hon. Member for the King's County, especially as he had only just presented the petitions on which it was founded. It was, to say the least, a very mild course of proceeding which he suggested, and must rather, he thought, tend to increase the number of fictitious petitions, that when only a few Members were present men who had been proved to have forged signatures should be permitted to come forward in  forma pauperis
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, he trusted that due provision would he made in any new building for pictures which might be bequeathed to the nation. He believed that a large number of bequests might be made to the country if a gallery of adequate dimensions were built to receive them. Persons who might be induced to leave their pictures to the nation were now deterred by the apprehension that they would be thrust into some hole or corner where no one could see them.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he wished to recognize the principle, that after a service for a certain period, and at a certain age, officers should be entitled to have their claims to superannuation considered by the visiting magistrates. He therefore proposed, that after the word "prison" in line 31, there should be inserted "has been an officer for not less than twenty years, and not less than fifty years of age." The clause, as he proposed to amend it, would be precisely similar to a clause in the Lunatic Asylums' Acts.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the officers employed under the Lunacy Act were men of peculiar qualifications, and there was a special recommendation that they should be put on a better footing with regard to superannuation than any other class. If the Amendment were adopted a claim would be made to extend the same terms to the officers of convict prisons, and then to other officers of the Civil Service. The clause had been very carefully considered by the Select Committee, and
 1329
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the clause had been fully considered by the Select Committee, and was almost unanimously agreed to. He would not object to superannuation at sixty, but should prefer the clause as it stood.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  would accept the suggestion of the Home Secretary.
 MR. MITFORD  said, that in many small prisons some of the prisoners were employed as cooks and nurses. Would not this be properly considered as "bodily labour" of the second class?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  did not think that employment either as cooks or nurses came under the description of hard labour. Baking really was hard labour, and might be so considered. The Select Committee were of opinion that it was undesirable to exempt prisoners from some description of hard labour when hard labour formed a portion of the sentence. There were always hard labour prisoners unable to do hard work, and these might be employed in cooking and nursing.
 MR. BARROW  inquired whether the rules to be made by the justices would, after this Bill passed, sufficiently empower the governors of prisons to alter the diet as a mode of punishment in the case of mild offenders.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  believed that the governor exercised that power at present. His power of punishing for certain offences by close confinement was limited to three days; but in the case of trifling punishments he clearly would have the same power that he had at present under the direction and control of the justices.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the object of this clause was a very desirable one—namely, that when an Inspector examined a prison and found defects in it, these defects should not be kept concealed from the immediate notice of the visiting justices until the annual Report had been laid before Parliament. The clause, therefore, provided that when an Inspector found any irregularities to exist in a prison, he should make a report on the subject to the visiting justices; but as it might be inconvenient to oblige an Inspector on every occasion of this kind to make a report, he proposed to amend the clause by the insertion of words enabling the Inspector to call attention by letter addressed to the visiting justices to any irregularities that he observed to exist in prisons, so that they might take measures for remedying them. He proposed, therefore, to leave out the words "make a report on the state of the prisons," and insert the words "call their attention to any irregularity he may have observed."
 MR. HENLEY  could not see a great difference between "making a report," as it stood in the clause, and "calling attention," according to the Amendment. Remarks of Prison Inspectors ought not to be made carelessly or loosely, and when made, on mature consideration, they ought to be matter of record.
 MR. MUNDY  said, he should desire to see the principle of this clause still further extended. It was a subject of just complaint that when a prisoner was discharged from prison he was almost obliged to relapse into crime, because he had no means of obtaining a subsistence. He would grant, therefore, to every prisoner, on leav-
 1331
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  would like to know how the earnings of each prisoner were to be ascertained and calculated? In scarcely one gaol that he knew were there any real earnings. He believed there were charities in most gaols from which prisoners might be assisted with small sums on their discharge.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this was no new enactment, but was copied from an existing Act. It had not been long in operation, but it was working well, and it would be undesirable to alter or repeal it without further experience of its operation.
 MR. MUNDY : How far can you go beyond £2 at present?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : You cannot go beyond £2 at all.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  asked what was the reason of limiting the number of visiting justices to twelve. In the larger districts there would be an advantage in having a greater number than twelve. He moved to leave out the words "not exceeding twelve."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the majority of the Select Committee were favourable to this limitation of the number of visiting justices, in the belief that the smaller the number the greater the responsibility. For himself, he rather doubted the expediency of the limit to any particular number.
 COLONEL STUART  suggested the substitution of "eighteen" for "twelve."
 MR. HENLEY  thought it would be much better to leave the number open, and let each county do as it thought best.
 MR. MUNDY  said, that female prisoners were sometimes so disorderly that it was necessary the visiting justices should have the power of cutting off their hair as a punishment. He should not wish to see it carried out; but where female prisoners set the authority of the prison officers at defiance, and destroyed their clothes and everything they could lay their hands upon, the threat of cutting off their hair might be usefully held over them  in terrorem.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it occasionally happened that the visiting justices had a class of female prisoners on their hands who were very difficult to deal with. When they were disorderly the justices could not inflict corporal punishment, and the only punishments they could carry out were a reduction of diet and confinement in a dark cell. The punishment of cutting off their hair was the most effective of all, and he should vote for the Amendment.
 MR. BRISCOE  said, that to cut off the hair of a female prisoner was the most cruel and severe punishment that could be inflicted on a woman. He should divide the House against the Amendment.
 MR. ADDERLEY  believed that this punishment was one which it was necessary the justices should possess in certain cases.
 MR. BARROW , from his experience as a visiting justice, would vote for the Amendment. He knew a case in which a profligate woman was confined in prison who defied the authority of the gaolers, and sang obscene songs at the top of her voice for a couple of days. He believed that the fear of this punishment was necessary to deter women of that class from such excesses.
 SIR BALDWIN LEIGHTON  said, that the present punishment for disorderly female prisoners was quite insufficient. In the prison in his county a strong, handsome girl of twenty was confined. She had previously been in Chester and two or three other prisons, and she at length came to Millbank, and her story was given in the  Revelations of a Prison Matron.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Amendment gave the power in "extreme cases." This was vague, and he doubted, moreover, whether it would be a deterrent. He had no great objection, however, to give the power to the visiting justices if the offence were more exactly defined.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the power of cutting off women's hair used to be exercised in prisons and workhouses, but it had very properly been given up. In some ill-managed prisons every case would be an "extreme case," and the women would all be docked. This would be an act of the greatest cruelty. It was a heavier punishment than could be now inflicted on a woman. Half of the women in gaol would rather have twelve months' imprisonment than have their hair cut. He would vote for the clause as it stood.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was desirous that the justices should have the power of inflicting the punishment; but, at the same time, he should not like to see it done. He
 1334
 MR. MUNDY  said, he would accept the suggestion of his hon. Friend.
 MR. WRIGHTSON  said, that the power of cutting off the hair of lads was very useful. Sometimes, when they obstinately refused to pay small fines, they gave way and paid the money as soon as the barber came into the room.
 MR. MUNDY  objected to cutting off the hair of any boy who might be imprisoned for a first offence. It prevented a lad from getting employment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the object of cutting the hair close was cleanliness, and that very much the same thing was done in the army.
 MR. CAVE  pointed out that in small gaols there would be no one available for nursing and cooking except prisoners sentenced to hard labour. He submitted that well-conducted prisoners sentenced to hard labour of the second class might be employed in the duties of nursing and cooking, or else the smaller gaols would be without nurses and cooks. He entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Midhurst (Mr. Mitford) on this point, and hoped the Government would concede it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought it would be better that the hon. Gentleman should give notice of his Amendment, that the Members of the Select Committee might have an opportunity of stating the grounds on which they framed the regulations as they stand in the Schedule.
 MR. CAVE  said, he would bring up a clause on the Report.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  could not agree to leave the matter to the discretion of the justices. The clause took away the necessity of a special request in each case.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  wished to leave the justices no discretion in such a matter, so that no prisoner need be excluded from religious instruction.
 MR. BARROW  said, that in his county they got hold of a London burglar who at first declared himself to be a member of the Established Church, and then, wishing to give the authorities some trouble, represented that he was a Roman Catholic.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that under this Bill the statement made by a prisoner on entering a gaol as to his religious persuasion would be taken down, and would hold good during his term of imprisonment.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, the letter referred to by the hon. Gentleman was addressed to the Editor of  The Times,
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I am personally responsible for any statements contained in my speech.
 MR. GRANT DUFF  asked the Lord Advocate what course he proposed to take in reference to this Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he found that though he had received the support of the majority of the Scotch Members in regard to the Bill, yet the opposition was so formidable that he had no hope of carrying the measure this Session, and he therefore intended to withdraw it. The question, however, had gained very much by being amply discussed, and in a future Session he hoped that the Scotch representatives would be more unanimous on the matter. He moved that the order he now read, and  discharged.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take into consideration what he had urged at an early period of the Session—the expediency of stating clearly in the little annual Abstract the exact amount of revenue and expenditure of the Post Office one year with another. There was a general idea that the revenue was much larger than that actually derived, and hence arose the increased applications which were made to Government on that account.
 MR. AYRTON  thought that the Trustees were be wrapped in the affairs of antiquity that they neglected considerations applicable to the present day. It would be much better if, instead of directing their attention to collecting the remains of the Mausoleum, they would turn it to the relations of the Museum to the British public. It was undoubtedly desirable that
 1352
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had been so struck
 1362 1363 1364
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the intention of the military anthorities to take any official notice of the letter published by Lieutenant Colonel Dawkins' on the 1st June, contradicting the statements respecting his case which have been put forward by those authorities?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he supposed he might take it that the noble Lord's statements were not made upon the authority of either the Secretary for War or the Commander-in-Chief.
 MR. CHILDERS  replied that the papers should be laid on the table shortly.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, before the right hon. Baronet answered the Question he wished to ask him if he would interfere and prevent the searching of female prisoners charged with petty thefts at the police-station. A female who had stolen a pair of boots in Dublin was apprehended with the boots in her hand, and when taken to the station she was stripped and searched by the female searcher. He thought the practice very objectionable, except in extreme cases.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he rose to call the attention of the Chief Secretary for Ireland to the general practice which prevails on the part of the Constabulary in handcuffing all prisoners in their custody on their way to and from the place of detention, and to inquire whether he would have any objection to suggest to the Inspector General of Constabulary the desirability of issuing an order to the force under his command to make some relaxation in the practice of handcuffing in the case of persons charged with trivial offences when no apprehension is entertained of resistance or rescue being attempted. He was induced to bring the subject forward, not only from what he witnessed himself, but also from representations which had been made to him of the unnecessary manner in which the Irish constabulary frequently employed handcuffs in the case of persons of general good character charged with trivial offences. Such provision was very properly given them to prevent escape or violence on the part of the prisoner, and when any apprehension was entertained of a rescue being attempted, and the precaution was a very proper one in all cases of persons charged with or convicted of serious offences; but in a great number of instances the Irish police handcuffed parties after conviction guilty of some very trifling offence, for which, probably, the magistrates had inflicted some small fine or short period of imprisonment—twenty-four or forty-eight hours. He had often seen young innocent country lads, who for some little row at a fair or race-course might have to undergo a short term in prison, brought away from the sessions court manacled to old offenders convicted of some serious offence. Very often, also, persons before trial were handcuffed on their way to sessions, who, from the trifling nature of their offence, could have no object in trying to escape from custody. He had often also heard persons of really good character who got into some little trouble plead most imploringly to the police, but in vain, not to disgrace them by handcuffing when it was
 1339
 MR. HENNESSY  observed, that such statements as those which had been made by his hon. Friend near him would hardly be altogether new to the Secretary for the Home Department, inasmuch as several members of the Irish constabulary force had been draughted into the London metropolitan police, and were at once checked by their superior officers whenever they resorted to such practices as they had been in the habit of adopting in Ireland. He had risen, however, chiefly to ask whether, inasmuch as the old law under which a man was liable to seven years' penal servitude for begging in Ireland had been repealed by an Act passed in the present Session, a man named Doyle, who had a short time ago been sentenced to penal servitude under that law, would have the clemency of the Crown exercised in his case, and have his sentence remitted? As to the Irish constabulary, he believed them to be a most admirable force, and that any charges which might be brought against them were to be attributed to the authorities at Dublin Castle, by whom the j most arbitrary and harsh instructions were issued to the force.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury for some information with reference to an application made to the Postmaster General by merchants and other persons connected with Eastern commerce upon the subject of the despatches conveyed from this country to the Eastern part of the world. That representation of the inconvenience attending the present system was made in the month of January last. The mails were now despatched, as regarded Marseilles, on the 3rd, 10th, 18th, and 26th of each month; but as those days fell, of course, on different days of the week, on some of which communi-
 1361 dies non. viâ d. d.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the Vote which had been just put from the Chair was the difference between the money voted on account and the sum asked for in the Estimates, and he now rose to make the short statement usually made by Gentlemen who had the honour to fill the position which he now held. The Committee would observe, if they looked to the end of the Estimate, that between the sum voted in 1864–5 and that asked for 1865–6, there was a difference of £8,037, being an increase to that amount in the Estimate of the current year. This Estimate branched off into different portions—one relating to salaries, another to house expenses, a third to ordinary purchases, a fourth to extra-
 1349 chef d'œuvre, 1350 1351
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he entirely concurred in what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the inexpediency of bringing forward at the end of an expiring Parliament any plan for the decision of the important question as to the future distribution and management of the collections at the Museum, which must raise a good deal of discussion. The Government, he thought, had acted wisely in postponing the consideration of what should be the mode of providing that accommodation until the commencement of next Parliament. Meanwhile, he hoped the Trustees and the Government would arrive at some definite plan. Whatever his own individual opinion might be, he should feel it his duty to support the plan which might be agreed upon by the Trustees. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had very naturally returned to the charge which he has often made before—namely, that the working classes in the metropolis should be enabled to see more of the collections at the Museum than they could now do. Similar observations had been made the other night with respect to the National Gallery, and the
 1358 1359
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he knew nothing except what appeared in the newspaper report.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not know. He could not say at that moment. There might be a clause in some of the Acts of Parliament which forbade both doors being locked, and he was of opinion that both doors ought not to be locked.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he quite concurred with the hon. Baronet in thinking that all possible precautions ought to be taken to prevent accidents such as he had described; but it did not follow that the remedies for the evils of which he complained were to be found in the clauses of an Act of Parliament. There were other ways of bringing about the practical results at which he aimed, and which were more likely to be successful than any attempt at legislation upon the management of railway travelling. The Act which was passed some years ago making railway companies responsible in damages for injuries caused by accidents increased the other inducements which existed to make the railway authorities adopt the best means for preventing these lamentable occurrences. The late accident was a most appalling event, but he really did not know how it could have been prevented by legislation. The facts were imperfectly known as yet, but the accident would appear to have arisen from the negligence of the platelayers in lifting the plates without taking proper precautions. [Sir LAWRENCE PALK: The train was an hour late.] The Report forwarded to the Government attributed the accident to the plate-layers; but an Inspector had been sent down to the spot to inquire into the case, and no doubt the whole truth would be ascertained. Meanwhile, he repeated that he did not know how legislation could have prevented the
 1346 1347
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that the Board of Trade bad no authority on this matter, but if any representation was made to them it would, of course, be their duty to communicate with the railway companies upon the subject, and ascertain what objection there was to allowing the doors to remain unlocked.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  understood the hon. Gentleman to refer to the quarterly Abstract laid on the table setting forth the Revenue and Expenditure of the country, and what was asked was that the revenue, instead of being stated in lump for all the Departments, should be separately exhibited at its actual amount for each. He thought the suggestion a useful one, and might tend to prevent misapprehension in the public mind.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with respect to the question of opening the British Museum at
 1354 1355 1356 1357
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  quite agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that the wants of the public should be considered and that only the surplus should be treated as revenue; but those wants must mean the reasonable wants of the public. This was not so easy and simple a matter as might appear at first sight. It was necessary to do justice as between town and country. It was all very well for gentlemen who lived out of the way to say nothing was done for thinly peopled districts. But that must be taken with some limits. They levied taxation on the towns and spent it, not for the benefit of the thickly but of the thinly peopled districts. There was something in the sound, and, he might say, the flavour of his hon. and gallant Friend's observations that required a word of caution.
 MR. COX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If his attention has been called to the sentence passed by the Rev. W. Wales, at Uppingham, on a lad named Walter Craythorne, of twenty - one days imprisonment, with hard labour, for absenting himself for a short time from the service of his master, Mr. Needham, notwithstanding Mr. Needham entreated that a week's imprisonment only should be given the lad?
 MR. GREGORY  wished to know if the Government intended to propose any plan or to take any steps whatever to remove the Natural History collection from Blooms-bury to some other place. As to the question of duplicates, Mr. Panizzi was of opinion that in respect to books there were but very few, and there were objections to part with them, and he (Mr. Gregory) would not, therefore, raise any question as to them; but as regarded the duplicates of works of art and antiquities the Museums of Dublin and Edinburgh, and, indeed, others in the United Kingdom, would be glad to profit by them. This was not only his own opinion, for Professor Owen had distinctly told him that he could make up from the chaos of specimens now in the British Museum collections which would be extremely valuable to local institutions in the country. As far as Dublin was con-
 1353
 COLONEL SYKES  complained that many districts in the country were at present insufficiently accommodated by the Post Office. It appeared to him that the public requirements ought to be met before any revenue derived from the Post Office was considered disposable by the Exchequer.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the Government had to provide transport to India for 7,000 troops annually for reliefs, and for a similar number returning home, besides invalids and time-expired men. The hon. and gallant Member was proceeding to comment upon the Secretary of State's plan for sending out troops to India by Government transports  viâ
 MR. WATKIN  said, it was a somewhat startling fact that notwithstanding the increase of the population of London and the greater influx of strangers, the number of visitors to the British Museum appeared to be falling off. He thought it was incumbent on the Government and the Trustees to show that this arose from no want of proper accommodation. In 1859 the total number admitted to view the general collection, exclusive of readers, was 517,000; in 1860 it was 536,000; in 1861 the number was 641,000; in 1862, which was an exceptional year, as it was the period of the Great Exhibition, the number was 895,000; but in 1863 and 1864 it was only 440,000 and 432,000 respectively. Those figures showed that there must be some reason why only so small a portion of the people resorted to so useful and glorious an institution. With respect to the working classes, it was only those out of employment that could visit the British Museum during the hours it was open, and to the employed working people the place was practically closed. Surely there might be arrangements made whereby the admission of the working classes might he made real instead of nominal.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that St. James's Park was never closed for the whole day, but only for a small portion of it, during a drawing-room or levee, when, of course, an accumulation of vehicles would produce great inconvenience. But the notice suggested was already given. Not only a day, but some days beforehand, large placards were posted giving directions as to the routes which carriages were to take, and notice that St. James's would be closed to ordinary vehicles during certain hours. All drivers of cabs, therefore, might be aware of the fact, and have no excuse if they did not know of the temporary closing of the route. With regard to the suggestion that policemen should be stationed at particular places he would consult the Chief Commissioner on the subject and see whether that could be done with a view to afford the fullest information to the public.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said his attention had not been called to the subject, as no complaint or representation had been made to him about it. If any were made to him he would inquire into it.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would be extremely glad to hear that the Government would take into consideration the suggestion of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. If property were taken for the increase of the British Museum the houses might be let until their space was wanted. There would thus be no immediate loss; and he also thought that the question should be considered whether the British Museum might not be opened at hours when the working classes of the metropolis could visit the admirable collections which it contained.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to call the attention of the right hon. Baronet to another matter intimately connected with the constabulary. The right hon. Baronet might not be able then to give him a distinct reply, but, perhaps, he would promise to inquire into it, as it had reference to the manner in which the police
 1340 "In acknowledging the receipt of your letter of the 24th of May, I regret much to find that it contains a complaint against the conduct of the police; but as it is not one against their discipline, I can only suggest, if you consider yourself aggrieved, that you are at liberty to take such legal steps as you may be advised,"— 1341
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask when the papers which were moved for some days ago by the hon. Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford North-cote), relating to the case of Sir Richard
 1336
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK : With regard to the doors being locked?
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the fatal accident on the Great Western Railway, and to ask the President of the Board of Trade, if the Government will make inquiries with the view of ascertaining whether the safety of the public may not be better assured by legislative measures? He did not propose to go into the great question of general railway policy, but would confine himself to the consideration of the accidents which had occurred recently on the Great Western Railway, by which many lives were lost, and a great many persons seriously injured, and to the recommendations of the Committee which sat in 1858 to inquire into the subject of railway accidents. That Committee, in their Report, made two suggestions. Now,
 1343 * The Times 1344 1345
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he had given notice that he meant to call attention to this subject upon going; into Supply.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK : Is it legal?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in answer to the hon. and learned Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy), said, it was the intention of the Government to recommend the remission of the sentence of the person to whom he referred, as having been found guilty of begging under a law now re-pealed. In reply to the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), he might observe that he thought the case which he had brought under his notice well worthy of consideration, and he should take care that it was duly investigated. He was of opinion that the Irish constabulary endeavoured upon the whole to discharge their difficult duties with great forbearance and moderation, although no doubt there were some instances in which their conduct stood in need of correction. He presumed that the letter which the hon. and learned Gentleman had read was written by Colonel Wood [Sir Hugh CAIRNS: Yes], and he should
 1342
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, that when permission to go through St. James's Park was given to hackney carriages a great boon was conferred on the public, and that permission had been largely made use of, particularly since the opening of the Victoria Station. There were, however, about twenty days in the year upon which St. James's Park was closed to public conveyances, either in the morning or evening—as, for instance, when drawing rooms and levees were being held and when balls were given. Such was the case yesterday. A considerable number of persons on arriving at the Park gates were told that they could not go through, and they were obliged to go round by another way, thus losing much of their
 1348
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would consider the question as a representation.
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  said, referring to an accident which occurred the other day upon the Great Western Railway, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he would use his authority, or, if he had no authority, his influence to prevent for the future the locking of the doors of railway carriages, a custom which was in reality only adhered to for the convenience of railway companies, and which was most dangerous to the traveling public?
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that the privilege of removing goods in transit without examination was given on condition that the merchant should defray all the expenses incurred by the Crown in consequence. Goods within the docks still required watching, the only difference being that the officer who watched them was on land instead of being on board the lighter.
 MR. PEEL  said, in that case the ships would only have to pay for one officer.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the clause enabled the Poor Law Board to put its hands into the pockets of the ratepayers, for the erection of additional buildings, to any extent it thought proper. There were some absurd provisions. Under this Bill
 104
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he opposed the introduction of the Bill, which was a coercive measure, and wholly unnecessary. He begged, therefore, to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. PEEL  said, in reply, that our charge was 1 s. d. s. d. s.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he admitted the force of the Amendment, and proposed to meet the right hon. Gentle-man's views by the addition of certain words to Clause 16.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must object to the Amendment, on the ground that the word proposed to be left out would not, in the slightest degree, affect its permissive character.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must oppose the Amendment as calculated to gratify the curiosity with regard to private property of persons not interested in it. It might even be used for fraudulent purposes.
 MR. HASSARD  said, that for 150 years they had courted publicity in this matter in Ireland, instead of shunting it, and it had always been found beneficial.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would prefer an open registry, but did not wish to do anything that would endanger the Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would concede the addition of words, giving an enlarged power of inspection, intermediate between the clause and the
 88
 MR. SCULLY  said, he approved of the Bill so far as it provided for the registration of title, but objected to the enactment providing for the establishment of another Registry of Deeds.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he very much preferred the system of registration of title to the system of the registration of deeds. He would support the clause, though it was not as perfect as it might have been.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it was not intended to fetter the modes of transfer.
 MR. SCULLY  said, the Attorney General seemed to think that a charge under a settlement could be recorded was out-out reference to the settlement. He submitted that everything within the settlement should be made known, thus giving notice to the parties who should purchase the charge under that settlement.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must object to the clause.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the clause was likely to introduce a new question as to costs.
 MR. HENLEY : Sir, I voted for the second reading of this Bill, but I had not an opportunity then of stating why I did so, and therefore I trust the House will allow me to state the course I intend to take at the present moment. The Home Secretary says he objects to the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend (Sir Hugh Cairns), because he thinks the Roman Catholic Members ought to be here upon a footing of perfect equality with all other Members. He laid down that as the broad basis upon which he was founding his vote. My hon. Friend below me (Mr. Hunt) said he would be no party to continuing a distinction in the oath, and therefore he would not vote for the Motion of my hon. and learned Friend. But, supposing that this Motion be not carried, I ask whether we should stand upon a footing of perfect equality? No man can say that we should. In the first four lines of the oath, both Roman Catholics and Protestants swear affirmatively to four things; they swear to do allegiance, to disclose any traitorous designs, to support the Succession to the Throne, and to support the Dignity of the Crown. Now, when you come to discuss these matters as casuists it is difficult to say, looking to the common-law theories as to the Dignity of the Crown, which includes its Supremacy, how far the oath can be taken affirmatively by persons who, when they come to the negations, stop short of this. But then comes the difference. We Protestants declare that no foreign Prince, Prelate, or Potentate has any jurisdiction
 77 78
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not intend to oppose the Bill. The first clause was necessary, for it would not do to let the Poor Law Board drop all of a moment. But he noticed that the title of the measure being "The Poor Law Board Continuance, &c, Bill," one clause was devoted to the continuance of the Board, and twenty-six or twenty-seven clauses were contained in the  et cetera. et cetera, 93
 MR. BROMLEY  said, he had been glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) state that the measure provided for the better classification of the poor within the workhouses, but having
 98
 MR. PACKE  said, unless the right hon. Gentleman would be content to pass simply the first clause, and to leave the other clauses to be dealt with by the new Parliament—clauses which it had been truly said the guardians had had no opportunity of considering—he would move that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 MR. PACKE  said, he had moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that the Bill proposed to abolish the local police in the town of Belfast, and he now proposed, in accordance with the recommendation of the Commission of Inquiry, to move the following clause:—
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must oppose the clause. Under it men would be taken into the constabulary who were not practised in its rules, and the Inspector General was decidedly of opinion that these local police should not be admitted into the Irish constabulary force. If any of them complied with the regulations of the force, they would of course be accepted, but he held it was undesirable they should be admitted as a body. It would also cast an additional expense on the country.
 LORD NAAS  said, he should support the clause. It was hard that the town of Belfast should be charged with the superannuation of any of these men who were eligible for the general constabulary force.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would remind the House that in 1867 the Lord Lieutenant would have power to re-allot the amount of constabulary for each county, and until that time he could assure the House that no change would be made in the charge upon the respective counties.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that although a personal promise on the part of the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) was a sufficient guarantee for his own intentions, it was not a security for the future action of any Lord Lieutenant who might exercise power before 1867.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he hoped the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) would adhere to the schedule in the Bill.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he thought there should be some more specific arrangement provided for in the Bill.
 LORD NAAS  said, that in re-inserting the schedule he proposed adopting the numbers inserted by the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel).
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would, in that case, consent to the Motion of the noble Lord.
 LORD NAAS  said, he would then withdraw his Motion, for the purpose of allowing the right hon. Baronet to propose the amended schedule.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he must oppose the Amendment. The latter number had been adopted after considerable discussion in Committee. He could not yield on this point.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he supported the Amendment on the ground that the lesser number was recommended by all the witnesses who were examined on the Commission.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he thought that the objections taken by the noble Lord were perfectly just. The Bill had only been placed in the hands of Members on Friday. There were a number of unions who were opposed to many of its clauses. The Government would gain nothing by pressing the measure. The guardians and not the Poor Law Board would have to carry it out, and time till next Session ought to be given to allow of its provisions being considered by the country.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, his right hon. Friend (Mr. C. P. Villiers) was rather hardly dealt with. Some blamed him for doing too much, and others for doing too little. He himself was inclined to blame him for doing too little. Having had some experience of the working of the Poor Law Board during the severe distress in the manufacturing districts, he could wish the Board to be permanent. But his right hon. Friend did not take steps to make it permanent. That showed his right hon. Friend's modesty. He (Lord Edward Howard) was one of the original sinners in this matter. In 1860 he took the liberty to make a Motion, which, to a certain extent, was the cause of the appointment of the Committee. That Committee sat in 1861, in 1862, and every year down to last year, with the exception of one, and his right hon. Friend was not forgetful of the recommendations of the Committee. This was another instalment of them, and after the long consideration of the matter upstairs he hoped it would be adopted. Instead of blaming his right hon. Friend they should rather urge him on. He was thankful to his right hon. Friend, for half a loaf was better than no bread, and he did not think that any argument had been adduced to-night which should prevent his right hon. Friend from going on with the Bill. How did hon. Members know that they were so near the end of the Session? There were some forty or fifty orders on the paper to-night, and all those orders could not be got rid of in a hurry.
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, the right hon. Gentleman had made two bold assertions—namely, that there was nothing in the Bill open to controversy, and that he had the authority of the Committee which sat on the subject for everything proposed in it. Now, he had been a Member of the Committee appointed in 1861 to take the subject of Poor Law Amendment
 94 index expurgatorius, 95
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Government will be pleased to extend to the Officers and Clerks of the Civil Service, who have presented a Memorial, the Saturday half-holiday allowed in other Establishments?
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, that the Bill, though containing valuable elements, omitted two-thirds of the recommendations of the Committee which sat for three years; and he thought that more time ought to be given, in order to do justice to the subject. He hoped proper Medical Inspectors would be appointed to workhouses.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he rose to propose that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, half the Members of which should be selected by that House and half by the Committee of Selection, with an Instruction to the Committee to introduce a provision into the measure to secure the erection of buildings suitable to the accommodation of the poorer population whose dwellings were to be removed by the Westminster Commissioners under the Bill. He should, therefore, move the Amendment of which he had given notice, on the ground that this was a hybrid Bill, partaking both of a public and private character.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that in withdrawing his Amendment he must express his regret that the Bill had not been treated on this as it was on a previous occasion as a hybrid Bill.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that when the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) asked a question the other evening with regard to an item charged for the travelling expenses of Lord Amberley he was unable at the time to afford the explanation. He desired, however, now to state that Lord Amberley was acting as private secretary and attache to Mr. Elliot, and that his Lordship was so named in the documents which were, in conformity with the usual custom, forwarded to the Foreign Office. Those documents should he produced if the hon. Member desired to see them.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it appears to me that the unmistakable tendency of public opinion in the last few years has been to meet the claims of our Roman Catholic fellow-subjects in a spirit of rational conciliation, and I ascribe that general tendency of public opinion to causes which, at the time, were calculated, I think, to lead us to believe that a very different result might be brought about. I attribute it to those circumstances popularly known as the "Papal aggression." At that time those who were then in the House will remember that what happened was really so misconceived, and I may be permitted, speaking historically, to add, so mismanaged by the Government of the day, that it did appear that there was a prospect before us of a prolongation of that religious rancour which it was the hope of the great majority of the nation had passed away. When the Prime Minister of the country appeared in his place in this House and informed us with all the authority of official responsibility that in the opinion of the Government there was a decided Papal conspiracy against the liberties of Europe, and that the ecclesiastical arrangements which had then taken place were part and parcel of that conspiracy, it appeared to us all that we were approaching a period of religious exasperation which would probably again disturb and darken society, for some time emancipating itself from that fatal influence. On the contrary, our expectations were happily disappointed. The result of that important event appears to have been exactly the contrary of what was expected. The result was really that it made the country much more tolerant than before; and that may be ascribed to this cause. There was so unmistakable a demonstration of Protestant feeling in England, a sentiment so profound, so fervent, and so extensive in favour of our Protestant institutions, that when the hubbub was over, and the excitement had subsided, there was a disposition to look on the claims of the Roman Catholics without distrust, to view them with candour, and to meet them in a spirit of conciliation. I believed at that time, and, from information which has reached me from many eminent members of the Roman Catholic persuasion, I believe now, that all that the great majority of the Roman Catholics of the United Kingdom of England and Ireland, really desired, and what they now desire, is that they should enjoy the full and free
 53 54 55 56 57 58 àpriori 59 60 61 62 Cœnœ Domini Cœnœ Domini 63 Cœnœ Domini? 64
 MR. NEATE  said, he cordially concurred in the suggestion that the right hon. Gentleman should make the Bill simply a continuance Bill. There was one matter which ought particularly to he kept in mind, and that regarded the medical profession. The medical profession ought to have an opportunity to bring the grievances which, rightly or wrongly, they held themselves to suffer before the House, and which, if the present opportunity was refused them, could not be afforded them. The condition of the vagrant or casual poor also was one which required revision. It was most desirable that the Poor Law Board should have powers to enforce uniformity of treatment; and that the poor should not have to go from one place to another in order to obtain better treatment. It was understood in the late debates that a Committee would be appointed next year who would take into consideration the power which the Central Board possessed of deciding as to the limits of unions. The result of the inquiries of such a Committee might be a modification of that power of the Central Board. He did not say a word against the principle of making the Poor Law Board a permanent one, but he thought the right hon. Gentleman ought to be content with the triumphant majority by which his Union Chargeability Bill had been carried in another place, and take this continuance Bill for one year only, in order to give the next Parliament an opportunity of considering the many important questions that had been raised.
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to explain. He had not said that the Committee had come to any opinion on the subject. What he had said was that the subject was one which had been very much considered by the Committee, and that it ought to be considered by the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to state that the late Sir Robert Peel, to his dying day, instead of in any way relaxing the opinion he expressed in 1849, had learnt by experience the value of the securities he had in that year recommended the House to retain, and which it was the object of this Bill to remove. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) had read history in a very strange manner. The right hon. Gentleman had endeavoured to persuade the House to accept certain expressions, which fell from the late Sir Robert Peel in 1829, in opposition to the tenour of the Act which Sir Robert Peel then carried, and to his deliberate opinion expressed in 1849. The right hon. Gentleman wished the House to believe that the late Sir Robert Peel had gained nothing by experience in those twenty years. In 1854 the late Mr. Goulburn had assured him (Mr. Newdegate) that Sir Robert Peel, so far from undervaluing the securities which he willingly accepted and adopted in 1829, adhered to them as he did, being himself a Member of the Government which adopted these securities—not as a matter of compact if the right hon. Gentleman opposite objected to that word—but on the authority of the Roman Catholic prelates of Ireland. So far from departing from those securities, Sir Robert Peel, within one year of his death, and although favourable to the admission of Jews to that House, warned the House not to depart from the settlement of 1829, lest this country should be involved in those bitter controversies which it had been his object to calm and assuage. He (Mr. Newdegate) warned the Protestant Dissenters of this country of the mistake they were making on this question. Their predecessors had made a like mistake. But
 84
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he thought that the President of the Poor Law Board was scarcely justified in asserting that this measure contained very little more than the powers of the existing Act. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) asked the House to enact into law very stringent regulations, and he did not make any provision for supplying petty sessions with copies of the Bill, if it became law. He proposed to increase the direct power of the Poor Law Board over the Guardians, and the House was asked to do this without notice of their intentions to the Guardians, who would naturally view such a course with extreme jealousy, which would not be diminished by the introduction of the clauses for teaching children. This clause was introduced at the instance of the noble Lord (Lord Edward Howard), the only Member who had spoken in favour of the Bill, and who, he supposed, must be taken as an exponent of a certain class of Roman Catholic opinion. Recently the noble Lord wrote two letters to certain parties in Liverpool—letters which were published in the Roman Catholic newspapers; and in them he stated that he was urging upon the Legislature to intrust the education of the Roman Catholic children to the Roman Catholic priesthood. In these letters the noble Lord very candidly told the Roman Catholic priesthood that the state of morality among Roman Catholics of Liverpool particularly, and other large towns, was not such as would commend the effect of their exertions to the Legislature, and yet he now advocated this Bill for committing the education of Roman Catholic children to them. This Bill contained another blow at the parochial system—of which, though the Poor Law Board was jealous, the House was not— power was sought to suppress the representation of any parish of small population in the Board of Guardians. Step by step the Poor Law Board was inducing the Legislature to strike down the parochial
 99
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that its objects were to provide for the continuance of the Poor Law Board for a limited period, and to introduce some Amendments of the general law regulating the relief of the poor. Had not the Session been so far advanced, and a dissolution so near at hand, he should have submitted to the House a measure of a more extended character; but as the time at their disposal was so short, and hon. Members seemed so disinclined for controversy, he had abstained from introducing matters which might have excited some difference of opinion. At one time there was a great disinclination to renew this Commission. Memorials had been presented a few years ago for limiting the power of the Board, and petitions to this House had complained of the manner in which the Board exercised its authority. This led the House to agree to a very full inquiry into the administration and operation of the law, and, after a very lengthened investigation, the Committee made their Report, having come to the conclusion that not only was it essential to the good working of the law that some system of central supervision should exist, but, rather in opposition to what had been recommended on the part of the Poor Law Board itself, the Committee decided that the time had come when the central authority should be rendered permanent, but not at the suggestion of the Poor Law Board, rather indeed in opposition to a proposal which he himself made to them—that the time had come when the Department which was to have the supervision of the administration of that law ought to be placed upon a permanent footing. Under the peculiar circumstances of the present Session, to which he had referred, and as the country had had but little as yet considered so important a change, he had not thought it right to adopt that recommendation of the Committee, and by this Bill he only proposed to renew the powers of the Board for—a
 90 Will. 91 92
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, the hon. Gentleman complained of this omission in the Bill, and I repeat that the Committee reported that there was no sufficient ground for changing the present system of medical relief. This, then, furnished no ground for postponing the Bill. Two clauses had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley), and if the House thought they were objectionable, he was perfectly willing to withdraw them, seeing that they did not result from the inquiry before the Committee. One was the repeal of the clause in the Act requiring copies of the Poor Law Board's orders to be sent to clerks of petty sessions, and providing that certain orders should be sent to the clerk of the peace. The reason this clause was inserted was because it was an expense, and that the clerks of the petty sessions generally concurred in saying that there was no kind of use in sending those orders there; and, with regard to the other clause, providing that the accounts under the 3 & 4  Will. 103
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he thought that the only way of dealing with the
 101 102
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that constant notice had been given in answers to questions this Session, that the subject would be dealt with in this Bill. With regard to better classification it had not only reference to classify the vagrants and casual paupers in the workhouse, but to empower the Poor Law Board to order any Board of Guardians to provide for a somewhat better classification of the inmates of all kinds.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that what the right hon. Gentleman was referring to was provided for by his predecessor in the last Government, and was the law at present.
 MR. HORSMAN : Why not give Lord Chelmsford's opinion?
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, having had an opportunity of stating my opinions to the House at some length on a former occasion, it did not occur to me that I should take any part in this debate. But the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) has made so severe an attack upon me for my ignorance of history, he has convicted me of such gross errors of fact, and has covered me with so much confusion, that I feel constrained to vindicate myself. Part of that vindication will be an appeal to the House to join with me in requesting the right hon. Gentleman to set me that example which is more valuable than a whole volume of eloquent precept. Fortunately, we have an historical record of whatever statements we make in Parliament, and we are thus on either side brought to a test from which there is no escape. In passing I may say that when I spoke the other day of the jurisdiction of the Pope in this country, I stated that one of our difficulties was that there were so many different constructions put upon it by different authorities that it puzzled those who had to take the oath to know what it meant. The right hon. Gentleman has given me the authority of Lord Ellenborough and Lord Lyndhurst. Well, I could have given him many other authorities
 79 80 "If we are to relinquish the system of exclusion, let us secure the advantages of concession. If we are to settle the Catholic question, let us settle it at once and for ever." Cheers from the Opposition Benches. "Settle it, I mean," continued Sir Robert Peel, "so far as political rights are concerned, by the restoration of equality."—[2  Hansard, "It is the result of no compact with any party or with any individual. The Roman Catholics have not been consulted in respect to it; and for two sufficient reasons. First, because it is better suited to the dignity of legislation that it should be independent of previous compacts with the parties whom it is to affect; and, secondly, because it is not fair upon the Roman Catholics themselves to require them to give their previous assent to the conditions, or securities, or restrictions with which it may be necessary to accompany the measures of relief."—[2  Hansard, 81 "Another proposal has been made, by a right hon. Friend of mine, (Mr. Wilmot Horton) made from the best motives, and supported with an ingenuity, ability, and research worthy of the motives and of the character of its author. My right hon. Friend has proposed, with a view to calm the suspicions and fears of those who object to the admission of Roman Catholics to Parliament, that the Roman Catholic Member should be disqualified by law from voting on matters relating, directly or indirectly, to the interests of the Established Church. There appears to me numerous and cogent objections to this proposal. In the first place, it is dangerous to establish the precedent of limiting by law the discretion by which the duties and functions of a Member of Parliament are to be exercised. In the second, it is difficult to define beforehand what are the questions which affect the interests of the Church. A question which has no immediate apparent connection with the Church might have a practical bearing upon its welfare ten times more important than another question which might appear directly to concern it. Thirdly, by excluding the Roman Catholic from giving his individual vote, you do little to diminish his real influence, if you leave him the power of speaking, of biassing the judgments of others on the question on which he is not himself to vote; and if, by a jealous and distrusting but ineffectual precaution, you tempt him to exercise to your prejudice the remaining power of which you cannot, or do not
 82 Hansard, 83
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that in one respect the Bill flew in the face of repeated decisions of the House. There was a clause in the Bill which would materially interfere with a very useful Act, the General Lighting and Watching Act, under which small towns and large villages had been enabled to form little municipalities for the purpose of effecting certain improvements. There were 300 or 400 of these little municipalities, all of which would be astonished to find themselves deprived of the powers which they possessed under that Act if this Bill passed. Nothing was so offensive to the Poor Law Board as the existence of such little municipalities, and it was their earnest wish to get them under their thumb. It was a perfectly wanton thing to introduce
 97
 MR. HUNT : Sir, it is with great regret that I differ from my hon. and learned Friend who has just sat down; and I feel anxious not to give a silent vote upon this subject. I have always fought with him in support of the Established Church, and I hope to do so again, and therefore, I am anxious not to lie under the imputation of being a supposed enemy of the Church by voting against his Amendment. My hon. and learned Friend has alluded to the possibility of some uniform oath being framed in a future Parliament in lieu of that now taken. I was in hope there was no need for delay, but that we might have taken advantage of this golden opportunity, and by sweeping away all marks of religious differences between persons coming to that table have handed down a glorious legacy from an expiring Parliament to its successor. For myself, I do not despair of seeing such an oath introduced and carried during the present Session, The hon.
 50 51
 MR. LYALL  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why the Custom House authorities charge the merchants for the attendance of their officers on goods in transit after their arrival within the docks, as, in that case, the officer is immediately removed from the ship or lighter, but this charge continues to be made though no officer is employed?
 MR. LYALL  said, he understood that one officer acted for a great number of ships.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, to the debate of 1854 the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey), I think, has unintentionally made an erroneous reference. The Conservative party, as he has accurately stated, defeated the very bad Bill then proposed. But why? Because a number of Gentlemen who sat behind the Ministers, finding out the attempt that was made to overthrow the Act of Supremacy, which asserted the jurisdiction of the Crown in all matters and things ecclesiastical and temporal, although willing enough to pass a measure that avoided that subject, the moment they discovered the great and fundamental interference with our ancient laws contemplated by that Bill voted against the right hon. Gentleman. The Conservative party acted on that occasion in accordance with their principles, and not only maintained the Articles of the Church but upheld the interpretation which every great lawyer has always put upon the Constitutional law of the country. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) the other night asked what he, no doubt, considered a very awkward question—whether I believed the oath which I had taken. He put that question triumphantly. He had just then returned from his rustic meditations, and I think my right hon. Friend must have been engaged either in the composition of a beautiful poem or in writing a piece of biography, since he failed to apprehend the principles of the Constitution of his country. The word to which his question pointed was "jurisdiction." If he had bestowed a moment's thought upon it he would have remembered that "jurisdiction" was the word employed in the Articles of the Church, where it is distinctly stated that "the Bishop of Rome has no jurisdiction within the realm of England," a declaration justified by the opinion of every lawyer who has written on the subject. I will give him a scrap from Sir Matthew Hale, because I should not like my right hon. Friend to suffer under the unhappy notion that the oath which he has taken was not founded on fact. Sir Matthew Hale says—
 69 "The supremacy of the Crown in matters ecclesiastical is a most unquestionable right of the Crown of England, that there had been encroachments made by the Papacy under that loose pretence  in ordine spiritualia, "Supremacy of the Crown in ecclesiastical matters was part of the common law, part of the Constitution of the country." "The declaration contained in the oath of Supremacy is but the affirmance of a proposition which is logically and politically true as an essential principle of independent Sovereignty."
 MR. WHITESIDE : I prefer to give what suits me. To speak seriously, the speech of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman), on the occasion to which I have referred, surprised me. I did not believe that any gentleman in England, particularly anyone who, like my right hon. Friend, belongs, as I believe, to the Church of England, could imagine that an oath framed in the terms of the Oath of Supremacy could be taken by Members of Parliament not believing it to be true. As my right hon. Friend the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) said, these oaths have an historic meaning and an historic character, and when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud expresses a doubt as to whether the oath taken by the Protestant Members of this House can be truly taken, he must allow me to remind him that it was not on the question of transub-
 70 "The law has provided an oath, to be taken by the Roman Catholic, which qualifies him to take his seat in either branch of the Legislature. That same oath, to which the Roman Catholic has no conscientious scruples and takes without the slightest difficulty, which was formed that he might take it without difficulty, gives him, with respect to civil offices, as well as to Parliament, a clear and unquestionable qualification."—[3  Hansard, "He did not think it would be wise to disturb a settlement which had been made after so many conflicts and so much consideration, and which, as he had understood, the Roman Catholics had supported as a full and complete admission of
 71 Hansard, "If they took the shorter form of that oath and substituted it for the Roman Catholic oath, as settled in 1829, they would he taking away"— "the foundation of that settlement, to which many Members would also object."—[3 Hansard, Ibid "He was the only Member in the House who was a Member of the Duke of Wellington's Cabinet in 1829, and who was a party with the late Duke in framing the oath which now stood in the Roman Catholic Relief Bill. When the measure was proposed by the noble Duke it was more ample and freer from restrictions than any which the friends of the Roman Catholics had previously proposed to the House; and all the restrictions previously sanctioned by Plunket and Grattan were studiously omitted from the Bill, the Duke of Wellington being willing, relying upon the good faith and honour of the Roman Catholics, to waive all objections felt to their entering the House so long as they swore to the form of oath then proposed. From that time to the present he had, in common with the late Sir Robert Peel and with all the Members of the Wellington Cabinet, distinctly refused to concur in any measure which should interfere with that great compact which was then entered into. He warned the House, and, above all, his fellow-countrymen of the Roman Catholic persuasion, to beware how they lent their efforts to the introduction of the first step towards the violation of the compact then entered into. Such a course would, he thought, tend to inflame the passions of the people, and possibly endanger the substantial provisions of that Bill of 1829, which had been found to be so beneficial to the country at large, and produce such an amount of religious discord throughout the country as it would be vain to attempt to repress."—[3  Hansard, 72 73 74 British Constitution. 75 "The Protestant Church is rooted in the Constitution. It is established by the fundamental laws of the realm. It is rendered, as far as solemn Acts of the Legislature can be rendered, fundamental and perpetual. It is so declared by the Act of Union, and I think it could not now be subverted without danger to the general securities we possess for liberty, property, and order." 76
 MR. SPEAKER  then put the Question, "That the Bill be now read a second time."
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had not understood the hon. Member to go the length of moving the Amendment; but if the hon. Member stated that he had done so he should accept his statement.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member appeared to be under a misapprehension with regard to hybrid Bills. When a Bill was introduced into that House as a Public Bill which involved private interests it was subjected to the same exami-
 45
 MR. DODSON  said, the Bill had passed through the House of Lords as a Private Bill, and if it had been a Public one it would not have been there treated in the manner it had been. He therefore hoped the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought that their production would be very desirable.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that at this moment there were thousands of Catholic children in workhouses in England taught by Protestant teachers and clergymen. The Roman Catholics regarded that as a great grievance. The Select Committee recommended that little children in workhouses, up to the age of twelve years, should be removed to schools where they
 100
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that there was no doubt whatever that this was a Private Bill, and he hoped that the hon. Member for Truro would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. HASSARD  said, that in consequence of the count-out on Friday night he was prevented from moving that it should be an instruction to the Committee to draw up one uniform oath to be taken by Members of that House. He understood it was incompetent for him to move now the Amendments of which he had given notice.
 MR. TITE  said, this was distinctly a private Bill, and had passed the House of Lords as such. A Commission was constituted under a Bill which passed in 1860, for the purpose of winding up that most unfortunate speculation of the Westminster Improvement Commissioners in Victoria Street. The latter body raised £300,000 on mortgage and £700,000 on debenture bonds. The mortgages were of a most complicated kind, and they were remitted to the Court of Chancery, and as the money was realized it would be paid into that Court for distribution to those who were entitled to it. With regard to the £700,000, they were doing their best to realize such payments as remained. The Commission had remitted to them two improvements under the Bill of 1860 for the widening of two streets opening into Victoria Street, and the great charities in Westminster were all in favour of the Commission obtaining the powers sought by this Bill. The Bill was entirely unopposed, and they did not ask power to take down more than twenty-seven houses, which were of a most miserable description, and those in Union Court appropriated to the vilest purposes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, upon the second reading of this Bill I stated at some length the opinion of the Government, and, therefore, I shall only trouble the House now with very few observations. And, in doing so, I shall not follow the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) into those topics which he has introduced into the discussion, and which, I think, only tend to divert us from the plain and simple issue which we have before us. The right hon. Gentleman has raised questions about the expediency of maintaining the temporal power of the Pope, and as to the effects of disunion of Church and State—questions of great importance, but out of place, I think, on the present occasion. Neither will I go into the question raised by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt). whether
 65 66 67 68
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, in rising to propose an alteration in line 32 of this clause I shall not feel it necessary to make any lengthened observations, having stated on a former evening the reasons which induced me to offer this Amendment to the Committee. The Bill originally was introduced on the ground that certain provisions in the oath taken by Roman Catholic Members were unnecessary and offensive, and attention was directed more particularly to that portion of the oath where the person taking it is made to declare that he doth—
 "Renounce, reject, and abjure the opinion that persons excommunicated by the Pope or other authority of the See of Rome may be deposed or murdered by their subjects or other persons whatever," 47 "I do swear that I will defend to the utmost of my power the settlement of property within this realm, as established by the laws; and I do hereby disclaim, disavow, and solemnly abjure any intention to subvert the present Church Establishment, as settled by law within this realm; and I do solemnly swear that I never will exercise any privilege to which I am or may become entitled to disturb or weaken the Protestant religion or Protestant Government in the United Kingdom." 48 "I do faithfully promise to maintain, support, and defend, to the utmost of my power, the succession of the Crown, which succession, by an Act intituled An Act for the Further Limitation of the Crown and better securing the Rights and Liberties of the Subject, is and stands limited to the Princess Sophia, Electress of Hanover, and the heirs of her body, being Protestants." 49 "We desire to be perfectly free to attack the Established Church, to overthrow it when we can, where we can, and how we can; and because we find this oath an impediment in our way we desire to remove it."
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that if, as the hon. Gentleman intimated, all the clauses of the Bill were to be withdrawn one after another in Committee, it would be better to withdraw the Bill at once and bring in a simple continuance Bill.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he must blame the Government for introducing this Bill at so late a period of the Session. The House and the country had not had proper opportunity for considering the changes in the law proposed. He was disappointed not only at what the Bill contained, but at what it did not contain. He regretted to see the Poor Law Board disposed more and more to grasp the powers that ought to be left to Boards of Guardians, and he was disappointed to find that the Poor Law Board had not thought that a greater liberty might be given to the Guardians. After thirty years' experience Boards of Guardians might be presumed to know their business. They ought to have some real power over their servants, but they could not appoint the lowest of their officers without a reference to London. They could not appoint a cook, a nurse, or a porter; they could not fix or alter their salaries, or dismiss them, without referring the matter to London. The right hon. Gentleman might have relaxed some of the more stringent portions of the central administration, for it did not become either the dignity of the Poor Law Board, or that of the Boards of Guardians, to hold the reins so tightly over the latter. The House ought to have a fuller opportunity of considering these changes in the law.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, he thought it would be better for the interests of the poor, the Poor Law Board, and the public, that the Government should merely propose a continuance Bill for one year, and leave the larger question to be dealt with by the new Parliament. The medical treatment of the poor was a subject which called for inquiry, but no mention was made of it in the present Bill.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he thought that the reason urged by the hon. Member for Perth ought to have weight with the Poor Law Board. Many of the Boards of Guardians met only once a fortnight, and could not therefore be acquainted with the nature of the Bill. The right hon. Gentleman by his proposition to take power to coalesce a number of parishes, giving them only one guardian, was interfering directly with the principle of the Poor Law, which was, that representation should be according to taxation. Many parishes with the smallest population had a large amount of rateable property, but power was taken by the Bill to suppress by the veto of the Poor Law Board the representation of those small parishes, except as annexed to a larger and more populous parish. This was a power which the country would hardly be prepared at so short a notice to sanction. He thought time ought to be given, and that the Bill should be a simple continu-
 96
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Postage of Letters from France to the West Indies,  viâ
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he must decline to follow hon. Members through the several clauses of the Bill It must be apparent to the Government that the Bill was too wide to be dealt with at this late period of the Session. There were many provisions with regard to lighting and watching, and the union of parishes which, he thought, would come as a surprise upon the country. It was based on the Report of the Select Committee, and yet not a clause of it came up to the recommendation of the Committee. The Committee disapproved of the construction of the Poor Law Board; but there was no remedy in the Bill. Though there were parts of the Bill with which he concurred, he could not concur with other parts. He thought that children of the Roman Catholic religion should be educated by those in whom they had confidence. He would recommend all the clauses except the first to be dropped.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he thought the Gilbert Unions ought not to be dissolved without proper warning to those bodies.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON  said, it was intended to appoint a Commission composed of a few persons connected with the Public Offices to ascertain how far the prayer of the memorial referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman could be complied with without materially inconveniencing the public service. It would be very desirable that, if possible, what the memorialists asked should be granted, but he was unable to state to what extent it could be done until after the inquiry had been made.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the Committee having now disposed of that portion of the Bill which related to pensions, he desired to express his satisfaction that the rights of merchant seamen to participate in the benefit of the funds accumulated for the Hospital had been recognized by the Admiralty; but, as there might be some doubt still existing upon this point from the wording of the Bill, he thought it desirable that a declaratory clause should be inserted, to show that the
 125 Dreadnought,
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would ask his hon. Friend not to press for the insertion of these words, because they would be misunderstood, and would really add nothing to what Government meant in the existing words, which were almost identical. On some of the points mentioned by the hon. Member, there was little to say. One of these was how far Greenwich Hospital was originally intended for this or that class of seamen; and this could only be settled by documents of the reign of Queen Anne. One thing, however, was certain—that merchant seamen had not
 126
 MR. LIDDELL  asked, whether the members of the Naval Reserve had a right of admission into the Hospital?
 MR. CHILDERS : They have a right of admission—it is expressly reserved to them. With reference to the use of any part of the building for sick merchant seamen, he could only say there was nothing in the Bill which would prevent the Admiralty lending a portion of the building for the purposes of an hospital in lieu of the  Dreadnought. Dreadnought
 MR. AYRTON  said, after the distinct statement of the hon. Gentleman, he thought it would be unnecessary to press the introduction of the words of which he had given notice. He therefore withdrew the Amendment.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Childers) as to the difficulties which would attend the admission of merchant seamen into the Greenwich Hospital.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he trusted the Committee would excuse him if he adverted to a matter that was personal to himself. He had to complain of some imperfect reporting of the observations which he had made on a former occasion in relation to this Bill. He was the more anxious to explain, inasmuch as the Report to which he had alluded had occasioned some pain and dissatisfaction to the naval chaplains. Now, he wished to guard himself from being supposed to utter any reproach against a class of gentlemen who, he believed, discharged their duties in a manner most creditable to themselves and advantageous to their respective cures. He had simply viewed the question in the abstract, and observed that a man who had passed a great portion of his life at sea was not, in his opinion, the most competent person to discharge important clerical duties on shore.
 MR. CHILDERS  agreed with the hon. Member that it was much better to give these officers a retiring allowance than appoint them to livings in the country. But he, at the same time, wished to say that the hon. Member had used on the previous occasion no words which could cause pain to the present incumbents.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was only fair that the Bill which offered inducements to the inmates to go out of the Hospital, thus creating a charge upon the grants of Parliament, should transfer this extra charge to the Hospital funds.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he could not see the justice of the arrangement, nor yet the advantage of it. The inducements given to live out of the Hospital
 128
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  also warmly advocated the claims of those officers to be placed upon the active list, and said he should consider it to be an act of the grossest injustice if the Admiralty were to reject their petition. Those officers asked for no increase of pay, or pecuniary consideration. They only prayed to be reinstated in that honourable rank which they had been induced to surrender when they accepted the appointment in Greenwich Hospital—an appointment which they at the time believed to be one for the whole of their lives.
 MR. CORRY  also bore testimony to the justice of the claims of those officers. He had received a letter from one of those captains, stating that inasmuch as commanders, lieutenants, and others, were to be allowed this been, he could not understand why the Captains should be excluded from participating in it. With reference to the case of Sir James Gordon, he considered it only fair that he should not only be restored to the active list, but he urged upon the Admiralty the justice of appointing him an Admiral of the Fleet.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it appeared to him that the Committee had wandered a little from the subject of the clause under consideration. It was the wish of the Admiralty to do every justice to these gallant officers alluded to; at the same time it must be remembered that what they now asked was not a claim founded upon justice, but a been of considerable importance. After the Act passed these officers would be in the same position as now, except that they would have nothing to do. When the time came for the preparation of the necessary Orders in Council to carry the Act into effect the claims of the officers would be considered. On the real ques-
 129
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that finding the feeling of the Committee was against him, he would give way; but he would renew his Motion on the Report.
 MR. CHILDERS  stated that, after the Division on the Motion of his gallant Friend the Member for Wakefield (Sir John Hay), although the Admiralty were not prepared to admit the clause for retaining a Governor with the present power and position, they were prepared to introduce a clause which would give power to the Admiralty to appoint, after the death of the present Governor, an officer, not under the rank of Vice Admiral, as Visitor and Governor, to perform such duties as might be thought expedient, and he would receive a salary of £1,000 a year. The hon. Member moved to insert a clause to that effect.
 MR. LIDDELL  asked, was the office to be ornamental?
 MR. CHILDERS  replied, that it would be as nearly as possible honorary; and it would not interfere with the office of Captain Superintendent.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  expressed his gratification at this concession on the part of the Admiralty. It was most desirable that the Hospital should be presided over by a meritorious and distinguished officer. It gave  eclat
 MR. CORRY  asked, how the large range of buildings which would become vacant under the operation of this Bill were to he disposed of?
 MR. CHILDERS  replied, that up to the present time no decision had been arrived at on the point.
 MR. HENLEY  wished to offer his protest against the way in which this Bill had been smuggled through the House. He was in the House that morning up to a quarter past two o'clock, and he had certainly heard no intimation given that this
 130
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was sorry that the right hon. Gentleman had not been informed of the intentions of the Government with regard to this Bill. He was not aware that the right hon. Gentleman took any special interest in the Bill or he should certainly have felt it his duty to inform him. He had informed the gallant Gentleman the Member for Dublin County who was understood to be the usual channel of communication in such matters, and those who were known to take an interest in naval matters were, he believed, well aware that the measure would not be brought forward last night, but would be taken at that morning's sitting.
 MR. HENLEY  must say that, as a principle, it was not fair to fix a morning sitting without giving due public notice of the fact, particularly after so very late a sitting as that of last night.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  concurred in the observations of his right hon. Friend. The course taken by the Government in respect to this measure was extremely inconvenient, particularly to the constituencies in naval dockyards, and other such establishments, some of which he had the honour of representing. Had he known last night that this Bill would be taken at twelve o'clock to-day, he should certainly have felt it his duty to watch it more narnowly than he was able to do from the brief notice which he received. It appeared to him that this was a most unfair way to press a Bill through the House in so thin a House, and when even the Treasury Bench was almost deserted. His right hon. Friend was perfectly justified in sharply rebuking the Admiralty for their conduct in this matter.
 MR. LIDDELL  suggested that as hon. Members generally were taken by surprise in this matter, it would be only fair of the Government to fix such a day for the bringing up of the Report as would afford them an ample opportunity of expressing their opinions upon the measure generally.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he was about making a similar request.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was most desirous of meeting the wishes of hon. Members, and would fix Thursday formally for the bringing up of the Report; but on that day he would name such a day for the further stage of the Bill as would, he hoped, meet the con Venience of Members generally.
 MR. HENLEY  warned the Government that if they endeavoured to push measures forward in the way they had done the present Bill they would find they would lose time, instead of gaining it, inasmuch as the Members generally would avail themselves of all the forms of the House to delay their proceedings, and would find plenty of opportunities for throwing obstacles in the way of the Government.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, in reply, that the noble Lord did not appear to possess very accurate information. The policemen in question did receive third-class pay, but they did not receive seven shillings a week, or any other extra payment whatever.
 MR. ASPINALL TURNER  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Government
 132
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, that the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland had found fault with his hon. Friend (Mr. O'Reilly) for bringing forward this Motion on tie present occasion, on the ground that the subject had been already discussed, upon the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, at an earlier period of the Session. He thought he remembered, however, that when the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) brought the matter forward the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) said that the House could not then properly entertain it, and that the debate ought to be deferred until the Report of the Commissioners, and the evidence they had taken, were in the hands of hon. Members; and it was that plea, and the feeling that the debate
 159 160
 CAPTAIN VERNER  said, he would not have risen to address the House on this painful subject but for the personal tone the debate had assumed, and the manner in which the hon. Member for Longford (Mr. O'Reilly) and the hon. Member who had just sat down (the O'Conor Don) had spoken of a relative of his. The magistrates of Belfast might have behaved with indecision, or might not have been equal to the occasion; but they had never heard of riots where magistrates had acquitted themselves otherwise, and he did not see why greater sins on that account should be laid to the charge of the Belfast magistrates than any others. His cousin (Mr. Verner) had been attacked by evidence not received upon oath. There was a Commission sent down to Belfast which received evidence from witnesses upon whom no reliance could be placed, and some of them attacked his cousin, who, they knew, was absent from the town at the time. The hon. Member (the O'Conor Don) said that two volunteer witnesses had been put forward in defence of the magistrates; but his cousin had gone abroad before he knew of the Commission, and never heard of these witnesses until he saw it mentioned in the newspapers. His cousin, therefore, was not responsible for anything they might adduce; but he (Captain Verner) begged to say, on the part of his cousin, that he gave the fullest denial to all the charges brought against him, and treated them with the greatest contempt. Those charges, however, and the evidence by which they were supported, showed an  animus 161
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he rose to move—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Ministers should now adopt measures for the construction of some of the Harbours of Refuge on the coast of Great Britain and Ireland re-
 165 166 167 168 169
 MR. GRANT DUFF : I do not rise to advocate the claims of any particular port, for this seems to me hardly a fitting time to do so. I cannot, however, help expressing my regret at the apathy which the Government has shown with respect to this question since the departure from England of that most able public servant, Mr. James Wilson, who had it so much at heart, and whose premature death in a distant portion of the empire was not the least of the misfortunes which have fallen upon the Liberal party during the continuance of the Parliament that is now drawing to a close. That nothing should have been done during the earlier years of that Parliament towards carrying out even the schemes of the Royal Commission, is intelligible enough, for vast and immediate national exigencies had to be satisfied, which left no sufficient surplus in the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I do trust, however, that the right hon. Gentleman who presides over the Board of Trade will give us to-night some brighter hopes for the future. Making due allowance for the unseaworthy state in which vessels are too often sent out, and for those chances and changes of the seas which harbours of refuge could not remedy, I do think that such harbours would, if judiciously placed, be of great benefit. Before I sit down, I wish to say a few words on another subject. It seems to me that the nation would find its advantage in aiding the seafaring population of Scotland, and probably of other parts of the United Kingdom, in obtaining better boat refuges than are at present at their command. The size of fishing boats has much increased of late years upon our north-eastern coast, and harbours which might once have answered very well, are now quite inadequate. In the long nights of summer as many as 10,000 men are often at sea in the Moray Firth, and if a sudden gale
 172
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  reminded the House that it was the Government and not the localities who first instituted this movement. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had stated
 178
 MR. H. BERKELEY  believed that if this Bill became law it would have the effect of turning every pothouse into a theatre, and every theatre into a pothouse.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, they never could pass any Bill unless they tried to do so. It was only fair towards the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), who had taken such pains with this important measure, that the Government should afford him all the assistance in their power.
 MR. KINNAIRD  suggested that this Order should be discharged. The Bill was one of 140 clauses, and there was not the least likelihood of its passing this Session.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the House was placed in some difficulty with regard to the question before it. The hon. and gallant Member (Sir Frederic Smith) had not specified any particular harbour to which he wished money to be applied, but left it to the choice of the Government to select the harbours which should be assisted; and the Government absolutely refused to assist any harbour. This was a matter which had attracted public attention, so much so that a Committee, of which he (Mr. Liddell) was a Member, sat for three years; a Royal Commission had been appointed to inquire into the subject, and Parliament had discussed it over and over again. The claims of the coast with which he was connected had been repeatedly admitted. It was the most defenceless, both for purposes of war and trade, of any coast in the world. The loss of life and property was augmenting annually. The President of the Board of Trade had said that great efforts were made to save life; but he wanted to know how the Government aided those efforts, which were the result of the voluntary subscriptions from private individuals. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON: We give a subsidy to lifeboats.] He was glad that the Government at last did something. But he wanted to call the attention of the House to this really national question. The Government had been for years apathetic on this subject. What was now asked for was, not that public money should be expended on any particular port, but for the benefit generally of the commerce of the world, in such places as the Government might consider best. He objected to a Minister of the Crown forcing figures on the attention of
 177
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that no Estimate for the construction of Docks at Bermuda had been laid before the House this year, but the Admiralty proposed to have the subject carefully examined, with a view, he trusted, to the presentation of an Estimate for that purpose next year.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether third-class pay, as well as an extra sum of seven shillings a week, is received by the Police on duty at Somerset House, the Tower, the Gun Factory, the Clothing Stores, South Kensington Museum, Chelsea Hospital, and Greenwich Hospital?
 MR. O'REILLY,  in rising to move the Resolution of which he had given notice for an inquiry into certain charges impugning the conduct of magistrates of Belfast contained in the evidence taken before the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the recent riots in that town, said, that on the 9th of February the Chief Secretary for Ireland stated that the Report of the Commissioners on the Belfast Riots would be in the hands of Members in a few days. It was not, however, printed until Easter, and he therefore could not call attention to it at an earlier period. As an Irishman, however, he would frankly confess that if he could tear this page from the history of his country he should be too happy to do so. Were these riots but isolated outbreaks, without antecedents and with no probable consequences, the best thing would be to forget them; but unhappily it was not so. The Chief Secretary for Ireland stated that the riots of Belfast went back as far as 1688. He (Mr. O'Reilly) would not go so far back as that, but he might state that during the last thirty years no ten years— no five years—no three years—ever had passed without riots of a serious character breaking out in Belfast. The last riots of this kind occurred on the marriage of the Prince of Wales. While all the rest of the Empire was rejoicing, the auspicious event was celebrated in Belfast by riot and bloodshed. The evidence went to show that there was no certainty that there would not be a recurrence of these riots, and that the only hope of their prevention was by the vigorous repression of the Executive. The Commissioners stated that there was, indeed, a danger that future riots would be more serious, because there was a probability that the combatants would be better armed. It was necessary to look back into the causes of these riots, in order that they might be avoided in future. In speaking of Belfast they were speaking of a place where the causes of disturbance still remained, and where the fires were still smouldering—
 "et incedis perignes Suppositos cineri doloso." 141 142 143 prima facie 144 145
 MR. O'REILLY,  in reply, stated that he had himself made no attack on the magistrates of Belfast, and declined to take upon himself the  onus
 MR. O'REILLY : I quoted the hon. Baronet's own words. He said that in the second week of the disturbances additional magistrates were sent down.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that several representations had been made to the United States Government on behalf of Mrs. Gray, and a memorial from that lady had been forwarded to the American Secretary of State; but the Government of the United States had positively declined to make her any compensation, and Her Majesty's Government had been informed that after the trial which had been had, and the verdict which had been returned in the United States, they could not press for it.
 MR. NEATE  said, he hoped he should he allowed to urge against this measure those objections which he had not had an opportunity of offering before. He objected to the Bill, in the first place, because he deemed it to be an unnecessary continuance of a had system; and secondly, because it delegated important duties to persons not the best qualified to perform them. The measure he thought was wrong in principle. The custody of prisoners was an Imperial duty, which did not properly belong to the magistrates. However skilfully prepared were the provisions of the Bill, he considered that the matters of which they treated were matters rather of administration than of legislation. Another grave objection to the Bill was the appointment of Governors to gaols, which under this system was left in the hands of the magistrates. He had had many communications with Governors of prisons, and they all expressed their dissatisfaction with such an arrangement. Another great objection he had to the Bill was its increased severity; he thought it a great stain on the legislation of the country that we should be employing prison labour on unproductive works. In all other countries, and in all ages, the labour of prisoners, however distasteful and disgusting in its character, was applied to some useful end. Labour for the mere sake of punishment was a form of torture. [An hon. MEMBER: The treadmill.] The original purpose of the treadmill was that the labour which it provided should be productive. He had
 124 2d.,
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was evident from the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman the subject was a very wide one. He therefore moved the adjournment of the debate.
 LORD FERMOY  would admit that there was room for improvement; but if the House decided that more money ought to be spent in cleansing, lighting, and paving the metropolis, the Imperial Exchequer ought to contribute a portion of the funds. When any improvement, however, was
 139
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. M'Mahon) had raised the question from one of details to one of much general importance. When he characterised the peculiar feelings of the people of the North of Ireland by the term "bigotry," the hon. and learned Gentleman should have given some definition of the term. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman that the inquiry should he somewhat more extensive than was proposed; in his opinion, it ought to extend to the nature of the influence exercised by the Roman Catholic priesthood at Belfast, and in what particular direction it had been exercised. The hon. and learned Gentleman stated that riots had taken place at Lisburn—but had no riots taken place in London and Birkenhead? The difference between Orangemen and Roman Catholics was this—that Orangemen only thought themselves aggrieved when their heads were broken or they were otherwise maltreated; but Roman Catholics had such sensitive feelings that they could not bear a particular song, and (hey could not bear to see certain banners, or to hear certain tunes. There had been that evening a manifestation of singular humility by the Secretary for Ireland, who had apologized to a dignitary of the Irish Roman Catholic Church for the expression "two rows of pins," said he had regretted this expression ever since, and professed the greatest possible respect and deference for the heads of the Roman Catholic priesthood. What did this mean? It must be because Roman Catholics were supposed to control the minds and feelings of the people under their charge; and, in point of fact, they received from the State some hundreds of thousands a year for no other purpose that he could conceive, except that of influencing the population on the side of order and good government. Well, then, it was too much to demand inquiry into the conduct of magistrates who discharged their difficult and responsible functions voluntarily and gratuitously, and yet not call in question the conduct of men whom we thus subsidised to the extent of something like a million a year. The Orangemen in Ireland challenged inquiry
 163
 MR. BLAKE,  in seconding the Motion, said, that although Waterford Harbour was one of those recommended for a refuge, it was not altogether on that account he desired the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend to pass, as the entrance to the port was deep enough for the local shipping; but many of his constituents were shipowners, and a large number of the inhabitants followed maritime pursuits; both classes were therefore interested in having proper precautions taken round the coasts of the United Kingdom for the preservation of life and property from shipwreck. In selecting Waterford as an instance of the good that might be done in that way for a small outlay, he only did so because he was better acquainted with it than with any of the other harbours of refuge recommended. He must express his regret that the recommendations of the Committee and of the Commission had not been carried into effect. The hon. Member for Sunderland (Mr. Lindsay), who had rendered such important services in reference to this question, had shown that during ten years the average loss of life on the coast had been 800, and of property £1,500,000; and he had expressed his opinion that from the increase of trade these losses would probably be increased during the next ten years unless harbours of refuge were constructed. His hon. and gallant Friend (Sir Frederic Smith) had appealed to the humanity of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson); but he (Mr. Blake) was not sanguine as to the success of the appeal, because he feared that the
 170 171
 MR. BRADY  also thought the passing of the Bill would reduce the drama to the lowest pitch it had ever stood at in the country.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was not disposed to accept mere assertions as an answer to his arguments. As for the comment of the hon. Member for Bristol (Mr. Berkeley), he had heard it before; it was not original, and he knew where it came from. Being anxious that the subject should be fully discussed, he would not oppose the Motion for adjournment.
 MR. LOCKE,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, explained that such a measure had been rendered necessary in consequence of the action taken by the managers of certain theatres. Having obtained a monopoly, they wished to prevent all other persons who did not possess the Lord Chamberlain's licence from giving any stage performances which interfered with such licence. These powers were claimed under the 6 & 7  Vict. Vial. Geo. 179 Geo. 25 Geo. v. v. 180 Will. Will. 181 Geo. Will. 182
 MR. MAGUIRE  wished to make only one observation. He admired the hon. Member for Lisburn (Captain Verner) when he stood up to defend his absent relative, but he did not admire him when he attacked a man who could not defend himself in that House—a man who was worthy of the respect of all who knew him. The hon. Gentleman had said that the morbid and wicked feeling which existed in Belfast had been introduced by one gentleman, the editor of a newspaper in that town. He had the honour of knowing Mr. M'Kenna, and he assured the hon. Member that Mr. M'Kenna could not be the author of the bad feeling that existed in Belfast in 1857, as he only went there two or three years ago. He appealed to the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns)—the temper and moderation of whose speech that evening did him great credit—whether the manner in which Mr. M'Kenna had conducted himself before a Committee of the House of Lords was not such as entitled him to the good opinion of all who had read his evidence. If Mr. M'Kenna was placed in a position which called upon him to defend his co-religionists, and to expose abuses which every Irishman deplored, that was not a reason for attacking him for having instigated riots the causes of which he had laboured to vindicate.
 MR. KENDALL  thought that the President of the Board of Trade had dealt unfairly with the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir Frederic Smith), who stated distinctly that he did not wish to name any specific harbour on which that money should be expended. A Committee and a Royal Commission had reported on this subject; the House of Commons had voted in favour of harbours of refuge; hopes had been held out that something would be done; and what they asked the Government to do, was to do something in accordance with the recommendations that had been made.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that while the Speaker went out to tea he had looked at  The Freeman's Journal 162
 MR. TORRENS  said, the statement of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. M'Mahon) that the Belfast police had been universally recruited from Orangemen was utterly erroneous, and was not borne out by the Report of the Commissioners, who said—
 "A reason analogous to that which we have been just considering, assigned for the distrust in the local police, is that Orangeism prevails to a considerable extent among its members. Of the fact that it docs so prevail no proof was offered us, and the witnesses connected in any way with the force declared their ignorance of its existence among them; and generally expressed a belief that men who are, or have been, members of the Orange Society are not to be found in the police."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  observed, that the Resolution they were called on to affirm was in these words:—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Ministers should now adopt measures for the construction of some of the Harbours of Refuge on the Coast of Great Britain and Ireland recommended by a Committee of this House in 1857, and by a Royal Commission in 1859." 173 174 175 176
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the Government had not instituted any inquiry through the Collectors of Excise into the condition of the Paper Trade, and there was no official correspondence upon the subject.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he could not undertake to say whether the plan proposed by the hon. Baronet was the best or not, but he had certainly brought before the House a subject well worthy of its consideration. He did not altogether coincide in the opinion that London was bad in all respects. He scarcely thought that London, although it was certainly behind Paris in the matter of lighting, could with truth be said to be the worst lighted of all the capitals of Europe:—it was much ahead of Vienna, Rome, Berlin, and other cities. But its paving and the watering of its streets were certainly most disgraceful. The streets were repaired by throwing down broken granite stone, and, instead of using rollers, as in Paris, to smooth these down, the authorities in London allowed horses to do the work, at the risk of being lamed, and at great inconvenience to the drivers. The system of watering, also, was so abominably bad —a great deal of water being thrown down at one time and none at all at others, that
 138
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any and what progress has been made in obtaining compensation for Mrs. Gray, whose husband was murdered by Lieutenant Donovan, of the United States Navy, near the Cape of Good Hope?
 MR. TITE  said, that the Metropolitan Board of Works was constituted for the purpose of main drainage, and for the improvement of the metropolis generally. For that purpose certain districts and parishes were empowered to send members to represent them at the Metropolitan Board. But the Board, he regretted to say, had nothing to do with lighting, cleansing, and paving the metropolis. These duties were left to be discharged by the vestries and parochial bodies, who desired to do the work as economically as possible, and by whom these duties were very imperfectly managed and discharged. Almost the only power possessed by the Metropolitan Board of Works was that a street could not be shut up for the purpose of paving, &c., without the consent of the Metropolitan Board. The solution of the question was in giving greater power to the Metropolitan Board, and he saw no use in issuing a Commission. If the Home Secretary would bring in a Bill to give proper powers to the Metropolitan Board of Works many of the evils now complained of would disappear.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  seconded the Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he admitted that the subject was one of considerable importance, and also of some difficulty. It was impossible to deny that the result of the present system was not in all respects satisfactory. The remedy suggested by the hon. Gentleman (Sir William Fraser) appeared to be one that would not necessarily involve an increased outlay, but might ensure a better superintendence and a greater uniformity of administration. He did not, however, clearly understand what advantage would result from the appointment of a Commission, because they all knew the facts. They were all aware that under the Act constituting the Metropolitan Board of Works, the construction and superintendence of the sewerage was vested in that body, but that the lighting, paving, and cleansing of the streets were left to the parishes and the vestries. These difficulties arose from the regard of the Legislature for the cherished principle of local self-government, and were very similar to the inconveniences felt before the passing of the new Highway Act in the management of the roads by parochial authorities. The remedy provided in that case was to form many parishes into a district, and to place the management of the roads under one superintending body. That would be a great advantage in the metropolis. The real remedy was in extending the powers of the Metropolitan Board of Works, which were, he thought, very usefully exercised. The subject was well entitled to consideration, and the House were much indebted to the hon. Member for bringing it before them. At the same time, he trusted he would not press his Motion for a Commission.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  expressed a hope that the hon. Member who proposed the Motion would be satisfied with the discussion which had taken place, and would not press his Motion to a division. It was impossible to read the Report of the Commission without deeply regretting the events which had taken place at Belfast, and, no doubt, errors of judgment had been committed by various persons; but he did not think that the proposed inquiry would be productive of any other effect than that of promoting dissension. If nothing had been done it might be proper that inquiry should take place, but there was before the House a Bill, the principle of which had met with general concurrence, and the effect of which, he hoped, would be to prevent the recurrence of such disorders in future. He conceived that no practical benefit could result from the
 164
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, if his hon. and learned Friend meant to press the Bill, it was quite necessary that the debate should he adjourned. Considering the very late hour to which the House had sat that morning, that there had since been both a day and an evening sitting, and that the House would again assemble a few hours hence, he should not attempt to enter upon a discussion of the details of
 183
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that in the course of the debate some observations had been made on individuals, many of whom were intimate friends of his, and he was sure the House would extend to him for a limited time the indulgence which was always shown when individual character and reputation had been assailed, and the defence had to be made through the mouth of a Member of the House. He might take exception to the course pursued by the hon. Member for Longford (Mr. O'Reilly), inasmuch as in his speech he had gone into matters much wider than was covered by his Notice of Motion on the paper. He had given a history, according to his own version, of these most melancholy riots, and put his own construction on their origin, cause, and progress, and on the various occurrences that took place while they existed, altogether irrespective of the persons whose conduct he was assailing. Now, he wished at the outset to say that he did not intend to follow the hon. Gentleman in that course. He did not intend at present to resume the discussion as to the real cause of these most unfortunate riots, indefensible as they were, whether they had or had not a cause; nor did he intend to follow the hon. Member in the mode in which he dealt with the evidence before the Commission. The hon. Gentleman had selected such evidence as in his opinion made out his view of the conduct of the persons engaged in the riots during the time they prevailed. As he said before, no person could deplore the riots more than he did; and it was no consolation to him to say that one party more than another was to blame. He said much blame lay on one side or the other. The occurrence of these events was a matter they had all to deplore, and he certainly would not endeavour to keep alive passions which he hoped would now go to rest, by entering on an investigation which could do no possible good. But the
 151 ex officio 152 153 154 155 156 toto cælo "It is right to observe that General Haines seemed to doubt whether the crowd could have been so easily dispersed here." posse comitatus, 157 158
 SIR JOHN HAY  thought the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had made a mistake in stating that the Government made a contribution towards lifeboats. There was one from the Mercantile Marine Fund, but he was riot aware that any public money was voted by the House for that purpose. He quiteagreed with his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Chatham, that it was the duty of the Government to do something to alleviate the dangers to which our shipping were exposed; and he must say that the conduct of the Government in this respect was not creditable to them. He had recently visited Harwich, and he found that the Government in getting rid of Felix-stow Point had diverted the course of the tide to such an extent that it had narrowed the harbour from 400 yards to 100 yards, so that they had considerably damaged that harbour. It had been suggested by the right hon. Gentleman that the Public Works Loan Commission could advance money for these improvements; but as one of the Commissioners, he (Sir John Hay) was able to state that at many of the places where harbours of refuge were required, there was no property upon which such loan could be satisfactorily granted, and those places were of the greatest importance to the commerce of this country. Take Filey, for instance, and there was no local property upon which they could grant loans. And yet it was of the utmost importance that contributions should be made in the very way that had been suggested by the Royal Commission. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the loss by gales on the eastern coast would be very little lessened if harbours of refuge existed; but he would venture to say that if there had been such harbours the vessels that had been wrecked on the coast of Holland would have been at anchor in the harbours and the losses would not have occurred.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty, Whether any steps are being taken towards the construction of effective Docks at Bermuda?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that he had
 146 147 Ville d'Ecosse, 148
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Yes; but two were also sent down the first week. He might further observe that it was scarcely fair of the hon. Member, although he felt sure that he had no wish to produce an erroneous impression, to allude, as he had done, to an expression which he had used on a former occasion in reference to an ecclesiastical dignitary of high position in Ireland. It was not through any want of respect for that personage that he had used that expression. He had done so in a moment of haste. He admitted that he was wrong, and the circumstance was one which he regretted. He felt sure he might add that the dignitaries and clergy generally of the Roman Catholic Church would admit that he was in the habit of conducting such communications as he had with them with the most respectful deference to their position. As to the riots which took place in 1857, and to which the hon. Gentleman had referred, he would observe that they were not carried on with the same intensity of feeling as those of last year. In 1857 Lord Carlisle did not take a very active part in the transaction of the business of the office, beyond giving advice on important questions, and recommending the course which he thought ought to be adopted; and he (Sir Robert Peel) did not think that any blame attached to the Government for not acting in 1864 as they acted in the former year. As to the attacks on schools and chapels, they had no doubt taken place—the Report was full of such details, and they were to everybody a subject of regret. He did not suppose the House was desirous that he should enter at any length into an examination of the evidence contained in the Report; but he must remark that, while the statement of the hon. Gentleman was, in the main, substantially correct, he did not think he was justified in seeking to cast blame on the magistrates. The Motion had reference chiefly to the conduct of the magistracy and of the authorities intrusted with the supervision of the magistracy in Ireland. Now, they had first to consider
 149 150
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said he was glad to hear the Home Secretary express an opinion that it would be better to place the powers of the present Local Boards in the hands of a Central Board. There was a great want of Ministerial responsibility in that House in regard to the government of the Metropolis. He should bring the subject forward on a future occasion, and he should not fail to bear in mind the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey). He hoped before long to see London become a decent place for folks to live in.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER,  in rising to move an Address for the Appointment of a Commission to inquire into the operation of the Act 18 & 19  Vict. 133 via sacra 134 135 136 137 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Commission to inquire into the operation of the Act 18 and 19 Viet. cap. 120, so far as the same relates to the Paving, Lighting, and Cleansing of the Metropolis."—( Sir William Fraser.
 MR. GRANT DUFF,  in seconding the
 208 209 bonâ fide 210
 MR. HENLEY  said, he found it difficult to understand what was the true object of the hon. Mover and those who supported him. The right hon. Member for Louth (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) had told the House that in his judgment the object of the Bill was twofold—first, to emancipate laymen from taking tests with which they did not agree; and secondly, to emancipate Dissenters. But the hon. Member
 243 244 245
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that he had not, as stated by the hon. Member for Leominster (Mr. Gathorne Hardy), expressly excluded Roman Catholics from his Bill of last year. His Bill was proposed to apply to certain cases, in which, by the Act of Uniformity, fellows were required to make a declaration of conformity with the Church of England. There was another statute in existence which required the oath of abjuration to be taken by Fellows, and Roman Catholics could not take that oath; but he did not wish to embarrass himself with that matter, and therefore left it as it stood. He understood that the object of the present Bill was simply to place Nonconformists on a perfect equality with those belonging to the Church of England. This was not a religious question, but a question of civil right. The corporations affected by the Bill were all civil corporations, and the right to belong to them was one which ought to be enjoyed by every subject in the realm. Not only were the English Protestant Nonconformists excluded from the Universities by the tests, but also Scotch Presbyterians, whose Universities were entirely free from tests, were equally affected by them. He would say nothing about the exclusion of a large number of lay members of the Church of England, because it was now admitted that, with regard to them, these tests should no longer be imposed. He was convinced that no one who had conscientiously examined these tests would take them willingly and  ex animo 247
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  rose to move an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time that day three months. The hon. Member who had moved the second reading had dwelt a good deal upon the inferiority of the position in which Dissenters found themselves when taking their degree of M.A., and the conscience of the hon. Member appeared to be considerably affected by having had to give an opinion as to Queen Elizabeth's title to the Crown of France. He had no wish to put any burden on the hon. Member, and as the Committee which lately sat to inquire into the subject of subscriptions had arrived at results which were generally approved, and which the Government themselves had embodied in a Bill, he should be very glad to see the subscriptions laid down for the clergy generally extended to all candidates for all degrees in the University of Oxford. With regard to the degree of M.A. he would say the same. He had not the smallest objection to what was called "the Cambridge compromise"—that was to say that the literary dignity of M.A. should be given to every Dissenter who showed that he deserved it. The one prominent feature of the Bill to which he objected was that it would give over the Government of the University to the Dissenters. In dealing with this measure last year the great
 211 212 213 214 215
 LORD ROBERT CECIL  said, that the hon. Member had misunderstood him. He did not say a word about the governing bodies.
 MR. NEATE  said, that last year he was not prepared to support the Bill of the hon. Member for East Sussex (Mr. Dodson), though he should have been willing to acquiesce in the suggestions of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 235 236
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he regretted, but was not surprised at, the opinion given by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Hennessy) with respect to this Bill. He should feel much greater regret, however, if he thought that the opinion of the hon. and learned Member represented that of English Catholics generally, and if, when the University of Oxford was restored to its character of a
 239 embarras de richesses 240
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  congratulated the House that, from the candid and admirable speech made by the Mover of the Bill, they were in a position distinctly to understand what they were asked to discuss. The hon. Member for the City of London had distinctly laid down in his speech that the complete emancipation of Oxford from all Anglican tests was what he aimed at, and the hon. Member did not hesitate in stating his desire that men of every, or of no creed, should take part in matters connected with the University, if by their intellectual ability they had shown themselves fitted to exercise such power. Nothing, however, could, he (Mr. Hardy) conceived, be more disastrous, nor anything more contrary to the spirit in which the University should be maintained. He could not recognize in a University that which the hon. Member had put forward as one of its excellencies—a place where free inquiry was to have full scope. He, on the contrary, recognized in a University a place where, above all others, the teaching should be based upon definite principles and known truths, removed from out the pale of free inquiry; a place to which parents might send their sons for education at an age when they were capable of forming opinions, assured that the teaching and discipline they would receive were at least based upon religious truth—upon something definite and well known, and not upon a something which was yet the subject of inquiry. The hon. Member for Bradford (Mr. Forster) had challenged an answer to his assertion that the Universities were national institutions. No doubt the Universities of England were national institutions in the same sense that the Church of England was a national
 230 231 232 233 "Roman Catholics are probably too much addicted to sectarian exclusiveness to present themselves as candidates, for fellowship in a mixed society; otherwise there might, no doubt, be a difficulty in consenting to put up with the unsocial attitude and petulent airs of sectaries who have persuaded themselves that everything in Christendom is of the earth, earthy, except that Church which has most miserably soiled its spiritual essence by adulterous union with the worst powers of the earth, and by partnership, and more than partnership, in their worst crimes." 234 "Gladly admitting all and without any subscription to our society, our education, lectures, libraries, and degrees, I ask only that the University shall remain not merely a place of education and learning, but also of religion, without which it can in no just sense be a place of liberal education at all. And to this end I desire that a great national University should not be converted into a mere literary club, but that it should really educate (which is of national importance) our future clergy and laity together, that its religious principles should be both sound and known to be so, and that the members of its governing and educating body—its professors, tutors, heads, and fellows of Colleges—should study and understand the Formularies of the Church, and be able to declare  ex animo
 MR. GOSCHEN : * 186 187 188 Commentaries, "The general corporate bodies of Oxford and Cambridge must be ranked; for it is clear, "he says," that these corporations—namely, Oxford and Cambridge, are not spiritual or ecclesiastical, for they are composed of more laymen than clergy; neither are they eleemosynary foundations, though stipends are annexed to certain magistrates and professors, any more than other corporations where the acting officers have standing salaries, for these are rewards  pro opera et labors, "Lay, and not ecclesiastical, falling under the head of eleemosynary corporations founded for the promotion of piety and learning. All these eleemosynary corporations, though in some things partaking of the nature of ecclesiastical bodies, are, strictly speaking, lay, and not ecclesiastical, even though composed of ecclesiastical persons." 189 "Whatever might be formerly the opinion of the clergy, it is now held as established law, that colleges are lay corporations, though they may be totally composed of ecclesiastical persons." ex necessitate rei, 190 "No creed, or dogma, or confession of faith, has been imposed in any of the Roman Catholic Universities of Austria since 1782." "After the proclamation of the Patent of Tolerance (1781, by the Emperor Joseph II.) many of the formulas still then in use, by which the University was designated as exclusively Roman Catholic, were likewise abrogated. At the 'promotions' to doctorship (corresponding to our higher degrees) the profession of faith, till then used, was abolished. The Jews were admitted to the academical degrees." 191 "Your Petitioners would represent to your honourable House that the University of Oxford is essentially (observe the word  "essentially" 192 "Tests are necessary for the protection of the ecclesiastical character of the University." 193 194 195 in posse. 196 197 198 199 200 201 202 "ART. II. That the Book of Common Prayer and of ordering of Bishops, Priests, and Deacons, containeth in it nothing contrary to the Word of God, and that it may lawfully so be used; and that he himself will use the Form in the said Book prescribed, in public Prayer and administration of the Sacraments, and none other. "ART. III. That he alloweth the Book of Articles of Religion agreed upon by the Archbishops and Bishops of both provinces, and the whole Clergy in the Convocation holden at London in the year of our Lord God one thousand five hundred sixty and two: and that he acknowledged all and every the Articles therein contained, being in number nine and thirty, besides the ratification, to be agreeable to the Word of God." "RATIFICATION.—This Book of Articles, before rehearsed, is again approved and allowed to be holden and executed within the Realm by the assent and consent of our Sovereign Lady Elizabeth, by the Grace of God, of England, France, and Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith," 203
 MR. DODSON  said, he had listened with great pleasure to the speech of the noble Lord; because, as it was founded upon a total misapprehension of the nature of the Bill, when its provisions were satisfactorily explained he would, no doubt, feel it his duty to give the measure his support. The noble Lord asserted that the Bill handed over the government of the University to Dissenters, instead of the Church of England; that it would separate Church and State; and that it would put all religions in the same position at the University. He was at issue with the noble Lord on all these points. The Bill left the religious teaching in the University on the same footing as that on which it existed since the Restoration; it left untouched all the University statutes and qualifications as to Professors and teachers, and all the provisions of the Act of Uniformity as to Fellows and Tutors. It carried out the principle of the University Reform Act of 1854—namely, that every person was entitled to go to the University for education, irrespective of what might be his religious belief. But the Act of 1854 carried out that principle in an imperfect manner, and the object of this Bill was to carry it out more fully. Under the Bill the religious teaching of the University would continue to be the teaching of the Church of England; a test would be required from teachers, but not from those who went to the University to be taught. It placed the University in this respect on the same footing as the Church occupied towards the nation. A policeman was not stationed at the door of every Church to say, "You
 216 in toto in toto. 217 bonâ fide bonâ fide
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that as the Mover and Seconder of the Bill had appealed to Roman Catholic Members to support it, and as frequent references had been made in the course of the debate, as to the effect of the Bill upon the Roman Catholics, he might, perhaps, be allowed to explain the course which he proposed to take on this question. The Bill proposed, incidentally, to admit a Dissenting element into the governing body of the University. Now, Catholics had no desire to be so admitted. Though the University was founded in Catholic times, by Catholics, and upon Catholic trusts, he did not see in any influential section of the Catholics any desire now to interfere with the University. Reference had been made to a memorial from a section of Catholics presented to the Propaganda, and which explained the position of the Roman Catholic body in relation to this question. This memorial was drawn up by a Member of the Government, the noble Lord the Member for Kerry (Viscount Castlerosse). It was signed not very extensively—by eminent members of the Roman Catholic body—among others by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Monsell), Lord Dunraven, Lord Camoys, and some others—and was addressed to the Propaganda at Rome in these words —
 "The undersigned laymen having heard that the sacred Congregation of the Propaganda is about to consider the question whether Catholics should still be permitted to frequent the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, venture respectfully to hope that the sacred Congregation will not think its active interference necessary. They humbly express their conviction that in the case of Catholic students at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, the faith and morals of their sons can be adequately protected." "The Bishops are unanimous in their disapproval of the establishment of a Catholic College at any of the Protestant Universities; and they are further of opinion that parents ought to be in every way dissuaded from sending their children to pursue their studies at such Universities." 237
 MR. HENNESSY,  in explanation, said, the fact was that as soon as the hon. and learned Member rose to speak last year, he, in common with a great many other Members, left the House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that at any rate this exclusively Catholic University had received a Royal charter. But suppose the Protestants in Quebec, who were very powerful and intelligent, should claim to share in the government and teaching, the Catholic Members would be found voting unanimously in favour of retaining the exclusive character of the University, and that being so he felt in equal justice that he was bound to vote against this Bill. There was a part of the Bill not affecting Catholics, which substituted another declaration for that taken, he believed, by clergymen of the Church of England. They were told that this was an attack upon the Church of England, and
 238 "Had I not gone to Oxford, perhaps I should never have heard of the visible Church, or of tradition, or other Catholic doctrines." Apologia "Doubtless, the national Church has hitherto been a serviceable breakwater against doctrinal errors more fundamental than its own. How long this will last in the years now before us it is impossible to say, for the nation drags down its Church to its own level; but still the national Church has the same sort of influence over the nation that a periodical has upon the party which it represents, and my own idea of a Catholic's fitting attitude towards the national Church in this, its supreme hour, is that of assisting and sustaining it (if it be in our power) in the interest of dogmatic truth."
 MR. SCULLY  thought that that circumstance accounted for the mistake which the hon. Member had made in misrepresenting his (Mr. Scully's) argument. The hon. Member's conduct on the present occasion, as well as on every other occasion, was quite consistent with his character as one of the Tory Catholics, and sole representative of that distinguished body. As for himself, he had been brought up in Liberal principles, and could not admit in that House that the fact of his father having been at Cambridge derogated from his religious principles. With the exception of the observations of the hon. Member for the King's County, he had heard no speech denying that the principle of the Bill was right, though it might probably be much amended in Committee. He voted for the Bill last year, and he could reconcile his conscience again to vote for it now, though he feared that it was an Oxford University
 242
 MR. SCULLY  said, it had been stated in the course of the debate that a section of the Catholic Members were going to oppose the Bill, acting under directions from the Propaganda. As neither on this nor on any
 241
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, if my hon. Friend who has just sat down had been the mover of the Bill, and if, in moving it, he had pronounced the speech which he made last
 218 animus 219 Vict. 220 221 222 223
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  wished, in explanation, to confirm the recollection of his hon. Friend that the question of a full and clerical subscription would have been reserved for all teaching offices.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said that both the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the hon. Baronet (Sir William Heathcote), admitted that grievances existed in the University of Oxford, and were prepared to remove them. If the Chancellor of the Exchequer thought the time had come when the question might have been settled by a compromise, it was in his power to have settled it, and signalized a Session
 225 226 227 228
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  understood what he had said to be the fair interpretation of the noble Lord's views, and he was glad of the opportunity being afforded him to retract the statement. He would only add that it was an error to imagine, from the line of politics he usually adopted, and because he was the son of a Nonconformist, that he entertained any hostility towards the Church of England. If they were starting afresh in a new country it was not likely that there would be any particular Church in direct connection with the Government, but he was glad to have the opportunity of acknowledging that the Established Church had been of the greatest utility to this country, and that utility had been no where more strongly manifested than in its connection with the parochial system, which indeed was a very essential part of it. It had in times past been of the greatest possible advantage to have in each parish educated clergymen. The parochial system was indeed the great
 229
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, be had made no statement with regard to a University; what he said was that no exclusive national church could be founded now.
 MR. MONSELL  rose to address the House amid loud cries for a division; and was understood to say that the Bill, with a single exception, dealt not with the Colleges but with the University of Oxford; and the case of fellows, who were obliged to take certain tests, might be dealt with in Committee. He would be as much opposed as any one to the introduction of any jarring religions into the educational bodies of the Colleges, for that would be destructive of the spirit on which Oxford University was founded. That spirit he desired to preserve, and if he thought that the present Bill would directly or indirectly interfere with it, he would be the first to oppose it. He did not believe that the measure affected the fundamental principles of religious education, and that
 246
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he felt bound substantially to confirm the statement just made by his right hon. Friend, but there was one important Amendment to which his right hon. Friend had not adverted and to which he (Sir William Heathcote) assented — namely, that teaching officers should be protected not by the declaration proposed in the Bill, but by a subscription such as might be eventually settled for the clergy. He had not entered into a consideration of the original Bill, nor into the amended Bill as suggested by his right hon. Friend, because he was contented with the state of things
 224
 VISCOUNT BURY (Treasurer of the Household)   reported
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it be his intention to continue in future the practice of bringing forward the Indian Budget a few days before the close of the Session, as heretofore; and, if not, what arrangements he has made for making up the Indian financial accounts to such a period as will enable him to lay them upon the table of the House on the meeting of Parliament, and to bring forward the Indian Budget in the early part of the Session instead of at the close.
 MR. WHITE  said, he begged to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been directed to the figures in the Stage Carriages, &c. Return (No. 309), just presented to this House, particularly at pages 2 and 3, as showing that the recent Act, 26 & 27  Vict., Vict.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the Commissioners of Charities had considered the subject, and had come to the conclusion that the present state of the business of the Office did not enable them to reduce the number of Inspectors. The noble Lord at the head of the Government had therefore appointed Mr. Good, who had been chief clerk of the Office for ten years, whose special knowledge of the business of the Commission and whose other qualifications justified the expectation that he would fill the office of Inspector of Charities with efficiency.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not allowed this debate to pass without indulging in the taunt which he had directed against those who advocated the abolition of the Malt Tax. It would have been in better taste, and he was sure that it would have been truer, to have let it alone; because, what were the facts? Before the right hon. Gentleman's financial scheme was made known, but when it was understood that there would be a considerable surplus, a plain, straightforward Motion was made for the abolition of the whole or a part of the tax, and the right hon. Gen-
 277
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he hoped they would have a very distinct explanation of the views and intentions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer as to the suggestions made by his hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote) before his noble Friend consented not to press his Amendment to a division. The functions of the Audit Board and the Exchequer were different. The duty of the one was to look into the accounts, that of the other was to be a positive and absolute check. In matters of finance, he had always found that the last thing they should give up was any salutory check. After what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Sir Francis Baring) who had taken so much pains, and had so much experience in this matter, he hoped his noble Friend would press his Amendment unless they received a satisfactory answer from the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought the question whether the offices of Chairman of the Board of Audit and Controller of the Exchequer could well be held by one individual a matter of much less consequence than whether, according to the impression he, in common with his hon. Friend (Sir Stafford Northcote), derived from the Chancellor of the Exchequer's speech, it was meant to do away with the Controller. That was a most important question. No doubt one man might hold both these offices as head; but the Chancellor of the Exchequer, throwing out as he did that the abolition of the office of Controller would be done with that tenderness always exhibited in these matters, it was pretty clear that it must be meant to do away with that office altogether. If the functions of the office regarding the present control over public moneys were still to be performed, there must be a staff for each office to assist the holder, whether he held one or two offices, to do that duty. Now, the office of Controller of the Exchequer was to prevent improper issues of public money. It was perfectly true that the Audit Office might discover a year or two afterwards
 302
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, if anybody wished to have the decision of the Commissioners with regard to the proper stamp to be put on the deed he could go to them, and if he was not satisfied with their decision he could go the Court of Exchequer.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) that this was a very exceptional kind of action. Why it happened he could not say; but his experience in courts of justice was that in actions for breaches of promise of marriage the women had it all their own way, and the men had no chance. The lady was well got up, placed in a conspicuous place, and the attention of the jury directed to her, and, of course, she was generally in tears. If she were placed in the witness box and cried under cross-examination, as
 314
 THE CHAIRMAN  put the Question, that the Proviso be added to the clause, and declared that "the Ayes have it."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought the purpose of the hon. and learned Member for Leominster (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) would be answered if it were provided that the promise should be "under the hands of the parties charged therewith."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he understood that the Proviso had been agreed to.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that was not so. The Proviso was not carried. He had put the Question, taken the Ayes and Noes, and had said in the usual manner, "I think the Ayes have it," when that expression of opinion was challenged by the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly).
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that by this clause the hon. and learned Member proposed to give this power of offering evidence not in the ordinary way and subject to the ordinary rules of evidence. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to make husband and wife competent to appear as witnesses, but not compellable, so that he or she need not appear unless they saw fit. He (the Attorney General) looked with apprehension on the practical working of this; and if it were not for the high reputation of the learned Judge who recommended it, and a practical anomaly which existed in the present system, he should have great difficulty in making up his mind to agree to it. If, however, the law was to be altered, why should it be done in a manner wholly without precedent? Why should not the giving of this evidence be made compellable as well as optional? Such an exception to the general rule made the proposal condemn itself. If the reasons for the change were sound, why not go the whole length, and put evidence of this kind on the same footing as all other evidence? The argument which weighed most in favour of the change was that under the present law we had an anomalous and extraordinary state of things. If an action was brought, in which adultery was charged, neither party could be examined; but if the action was
 317
 MR. KER  said, he objected to Bills of this nature, which were only intended to meet cases of disturbance and agrarian outrage.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that his experience was, that in places which were proclaimed the Government did not carry out the law, and he instanced Belfast, where, notwithstanding the locality being proclaimed, there were a great number of arms, as was proved by the firing which took place during the recent disturbance. He should vote for the Bill in the hope
 324
 COLONEL DUNNE  said, he would vote for the Bill if it were necessary, but the fact was crime in Ireland had decreased. He thought that at all events the Government should give them some distinct assurance that there was a necessity for the Bill before the House was asked to agree to it. He should like to know what local authorities the right hon. Baronet had consulted before he framed the measure, for he (Colonel Dunne) had never heard of the magistrates being consulted upon the matter, and if it were the police only who had given their opinion he must say that he should distrust them. Mere stories about Fenians should not form the ground of penal legislation. Nor did disapproval of the acts of the Government form disloyalty.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he regretted that the right hon. Baronet had not given some stronger reasons for the continuance of this anomalous law. He (Mr. Henley) had always been very much averse to the continuance of such legislation, especially in face of the fact that there was a decrease of crime in Ireland in proportion to the population. The right hon. Baronet seemed to think no more of the continuance of this legislation than of blowing his nose. He (Mr. Henley), however, thought that they ought to know the precise grounds upon which it was proposed, and why the Government thought that the common law of the land was not sufficient to keep the peace in Ireland. This seemed at first sight a very innocent Bill, but to repeat an expression which had been used, there was a great deal of white brandy in it. He was most anxious to see the same laws in England and in Ireland, and he repeated that before they proposed such
 325
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must decline to accept the clause.
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said he trusted that in the course of a few years this Bill might be altogether done away with, but thought it would be premature to permit it to drop at present. When all disturbances in Ireland ceased the Bill would fall to the ground of itself. Of his personal knowledge he could state that the local magistrates had been consulted in reference to this Bill.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that any one might suppose from the state of the House, and from the period of the Session at which the Bill was brought forward, that it was a matter of petty detail or official routine, whereas it was a measure for the abrogation of one of the most ancient and honourable offices in the King-
 288 289 sine die ah inconveniente 290 "(1.) That of the receipt and safe custody of the public treasure. (2.) That of control over the Crown and its Ministers. (3.) That of record." "(605.) Do you consider it as a part of the functions of the Controller of the Exchequer to see that the Paymaster in any way makes a proper use of the money when once paid to him?— Certainly not; when withdrawn from the Exchequer account I have no such authority." "(1034.) The Exchequer can have no control over the final appropriation of the public money." "(1035.) I am not inquiring about the final appropriation of the public money; be so good as to confine yourself to the issue of money into the hands of the man who has to appropriate it. Do you consider the control now exercised by the Exchequer a sufficient check for that issue?—It is the utmost that you can have." 291 292 293 294 "To prevent the issue of any Exchequer Bills beyond the amount authorized by Parliament, it should be provided that every such Bill be countersigned at the Exchequer before it can obtain a legal currency."
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know whether the right hon. Baronet has said that he intends to bring forward Resolutions with regard to Indian Finance without laving the accounts upon the table?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he approved of the proviso, but could not support the clause. The hon. and learned Gentleman had bet-
 318
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to point out the growing necessity for a Bill to consolidate the whole of the laws relating to the Exchequer, in consequence of the yearly alterations in the Stamp Acts. Under present circumstances it was scarcely possible to find out the actual state of the law upon the subject without wading through innumerable clauses in various Acts; and, therefore, he trusted the Chancellor of the Exchequer would take into consideration the propriety of introducing such a Bill on the assembling of the new Parliament. One of the anomalies requiring removal was this. A stamp duty of 30s. was required for a power of attorney to sign a document on which the stamp duty was 6 d.
 MR. ARTHUR MILLS  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether he intends to propose any Loan for the service of India during the present year?
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that there was no truth whatever in the rumour. On the contrary, the Commission had been improved by the addition of new Members of the Austrian Government. The Commission had adjourned for the hot months, during which most people left Vienna, but they would meet again in September, and there was every prospect that their labours would be attended by a satisfactory result.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) asked a pertinent question of Members on the Opposition side of the House—namely, why did they not insist on the Nonconformists taking an oath similar to that demanded by the existing law of Roman Catholic Members of that
 329 Dublin Review 330
 MR. SELWYN  moved the omission of the clause. He need add nothing to what the Attorney General had said as to its adding greatly to the enormous scandals which attached to these proceedings; and he could not be a consenting party to anything which would increase those evils. He admitted that great weight was due to the views of the learned Judge of the Divorce Court (Sir James Wilde); but in such a matter as this he felt bound, as a Member of Parliament, not to surrender his own judgment even to the opinion of one for whom he entertained so much respect.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, that he had already stated that he entertained no such intention.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied that he had made no such statement.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that the day upon which he should bring forward the Indian Budget must depend upon the progress which was made with Supply; but he hoped to make his statement either on that day week or on Monday week.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that the Government of Madras had pointed out that which the Indian Government at home knew well before, that an uniform rule of army promotion would lead to the supersession of some officers who had been peculiarly fortunate in their promotion; and they had sent home a list of officers who would be superseded. It did not, however, appear that except in a very few instances the rule referred to had materially altered the position of officers.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he gave the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer credit for having given a most important intimation. He had stated that the Malt Tax could not be repealed without the imposition of a tax on beer. It was most satisfactory to hear that the right hon. Gentleman had been considering the solution of the difficulty which existed, for a tax on beer would produce one-half of the tax upon malt. Although he had supported the Motion for the repeal of the Malt Tax, he gave the preference to the scheme proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and preferred the reduction of the Income Tax and the duties on Fire Insurance and tea. He drew from the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the augury that in a more favourable condition of the revenue the Malt Tax would be considered in the sense which he had pointed out.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH,  adverting to the answer of the President of the Board of Trade, said, he wished to ask, whether the practice which he seemed to approve, of locking one door only of a railway carriage, would not allow the locked door to be uppermost in case of the overturn of the carriage in certain cases of accident; and, if so, how the ready egress of the occupants from the carriage would be facilitated.
 MR. PUGH  said, he did not wish to criticize this Bill, or the other financial measures, which afforded a very considerable remission of taxation; but he would
 271 "Dapibus mensas onerabat inemptis." "Quod si pudica mulier in partem juvet Domum atque dulces liberos; Sacrum vetustis extruat lignis focum, Lassi sub adventum viri—" 272 "Et horna dulci vina promens dolio, Dapes inemptas apparet" "Neque enim plus septima ducitur æstas." "Invidisse Deos, patriis ut redditus aris Conjugium optatum, et pulchram Calydona videret!"
 MR. PUGH  said, that he had not hinted at any agrarian law. All that he wanted was that the farmer should have unbought beer—unbought because home brewed.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he felt bound to express his great satisfaction that a Gentleman so eminently qualified to deal with the subject, and so familiar with it in all its details, should have directed his attention and that of the House to the bearing of the tax upon the agriculture of the country. There was another point in connection with the question, the importance of which could scarcely be overrated—namely, the effect of the Malt Tax upon the price of meat. All who had experience and had fairly and impartially considered that branch of the subject, were perfectly satisfied that it was one which bore upon the interest of the entire community, but more especially that portion of it who were unable to indulge more than once or twice in the week in the—to them—luxury of a single plateful of butcher's meat. The kindred Bill, for taking off the duty upon malt for feeding cattle, had been framed, he had no doubt, in an excellent spirit; but, unfortunately, it had been hampered by every sort of restriction and complication, and, moreover, had come before the House accompanied by the report of a gentleman of great experience, which went
 269 270
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that if they offered themselves as witnesses they would then open the door to cross-examination to any extent.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : Undoubtedly.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that after the opinion just expressed by the Committee on the first and second clauses of the Bill he thought it would be an act of disrespect on his part towards the majority if he were to proceed any further with the measure.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he could not consent to make it compulsory upon husband or wife to give evidence as to their own adultery. The learned Judge of the Court also strongly objected to it. It was true that adultery was not an indictable offence, but it was a crime; and it was a well-known maxim of our law that no person, whether in criminal proceedings or in guasi-criminal proceedings, could be compelled to give evidence against himself. Under those circumstances he should take the sense of the Committee upon the clause as it stood; but he should propose a proviso, which would perhaps lessen the difficulties of the Attorney General. It was as follows: —
 "Provided always that no person though competent shall be compellable to he called as a witness on any issue which raises the question whether such person shall be guilty of adultery."
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that this was a most important clause. The object of it was not to compel parties in a suit for adultery to come forward and give evidence, but it gave the parties—the man or the woman—the option to come forward and deny the charge. In the Bill of 1851 this clause was not adopted. So great was the inconvenience felt in consequence of that omission that the learned Judge who presided over the Divorce Court had expressed his opinion that a clause like the present should be introduced into this Bill. When he introduced the Bill he took the liberty to read to the House a letter from that learned Judge to that effect. The clause in the Act of 1851, which disallowed parties in such suits to be called as witnesses, had given rise to some strange anomalies. In a suit for adultery neither party was competent as a witness, but if the suit was one instituted by the wife for cruelty and desertion, and if the husband should plead the adultery of the wife, then both parties were competent as witnesses either to prove or to disprove the adultery. Again, if the husband or wife instituted a suit for the restitution of conjugal rights, and if the wife should plead adultery, both parties were competent witnesses. The inconvenience was so great that an Act was introduced which provided that the wife or husband might be a witness in a case for cruelty or desertion, but not for adultery. When these three charges were combined, desertion, cruelty, and adultery, the Court and the jury, so far as regarded the evidence, were obliged to keep them distinct. It was a great injustice that a lady should be charged in court with the crime of adultery—that she should hear a friend,
 316
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he saw no necessity for the words "signed by both parties." They might be omitted without any disadvantage. Love-letters which would be written evidence of a promise were not usually signed, or were signed generally with initials or with some fancy or assumed name.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would take that opportunity of making some general remarks upon the Bill, and would take a short retrospect of the law. During the many centuries in which justice had been administered in the Law Courts of this country, no one, up to a very recent period, could be a witness in any suit or proceeding in which he had the slightest pecuniary interest. At length, in 1828, Lord Brougham in his celebrated speech upon Law Reform called the attention of Parliament to this subject, and from that time until 1842, several successive efforts were made by Lord Brougham himself, by other members of the legal profession, and by Members of Parliament, to qualify and improve the law, but those efforts were made in vain. At length, in 1842, Lord Denman brought a Bill into the House of Lords, the object of which was to remove the disqualification of witnesses on the ground of interest. Lord Denman was opposed, he believed, by every
 309
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If he is prepared to take any steps with a view to prevent the doors of railway carriages being locked in future; and if his attention has been called to the additional peril incurred by passengers travelling on railways from the objectionable practice adopted on many lines of fixing a bar across the centre of the windows of railway carriages, whereby the egress of passengers in case of accidents is effectually prevented?
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he pitied the unfortunate man who ever defended an action for breach of promise when persons like his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) were on the jury. He could not admit that men were always deceivers and women never; and certainly juries did not deal out anything like equal justice between them. The other day a lady brought an action against a gentleman who was lame and unable to take care of himself, and though her position would have been that of a nurse rather than of a wife, she recovered heavy damages for the loss of that position. In another case some years ago a lady with a large fortune made a solemn promise of marriage to a gentleman, and when he, being jilted, brought his action for the damage he had suffered by losing the material comforts he supposed
 312 313 "Provided always that no such action shall be hereafter brought unless the promise be in writing, signed by both the parties."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  assented.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that with regard to settlements a gentleman had written to him stating that, in addition to the 5 s. ad valorem, s.
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to ask for an explanation. If a husband or wife presented himself or herself as a witness, were they to be subjected to cross-examination on points tending to criminate themselves?
 MR. HUNT : Would they be compelled to answer questions to criminate themselves?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he did not ask the House to reconsider their decision; but he wished to remind them that this oath formed only one part of the protection to Protestantism which, as was stated by the right hon. Gentleman who last spoke, was stipulated for and agreed upon when the concession to the Roman Catholics was made in 1829. Another portion was that certain institutions of the Romish Church, the order of Jesuits, should not be allowed in this country without registration; but, from returns which he held in his hand, it appeared that the latter stipulation had been altogether disregarded. The Government did not enforce the law, and there were now no less than seventy of these institutions in the country, illegal because unregistered. He thought that the Government ought to be called on to enforce the clauses of the Act of 1829 which contained what were regarded as protections to the Protestant Church.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he approved the proposed convention generally, which would be exceedingly beneficial to the
 284
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he regretted the determination of the Attorney General; but he had the satisfaction of having done his duty in proposing the clause.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he thought the Amendment was unnecessary.
 MR. WHITESIDE  moved the following clause:—
 "That any person who has obtained from the Commissioners for the sale of Incumbered Estates in Ireland or from the Landed Estates Court a conveyance or declaration of title, or who shall hereafter obtain the same, may apply, every five years, by summary petition, supported by such evidence as the Court shall require, to be declared the owner, with registry of indefeasible title as originally granted by the Court; and upon the declaration of the Court, granted and registered or recorded as may be required by law, the person named therein shall be deemed owner as declared to all intents and purposes; such declaration shall not be chargeable with the percentage duty-provided by the Act."
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that hon. Gentlemen opposite invariably represented the oath as a case of grievance, and complained that its words were vague, obscure, and ambiguous. But the words were identical with those which were sent by the Catholic Archbishops and Bishops to the Government of Sir Robert Peel, and they were drawn up by those ecclesiastics in order to induce the Government and Parliament to consent to the passing of the Emancipation Bill. The instructions given to those who drew up the Emancipation Act were to throw aside everything that was offensive, and to frame such an oath as the whole body of Roman Catholics could take. In 1821, when Mr. Plunket endeavoured to frame an oath for all Members he failed, because the Vicar-General of the Midland District told him that he had misunderstood the principles of his (the Roman Catholic) Church. Accordingly, in 1829, an oath was framed which was voluntarily taken and welcomed with acclamation by Roman Catholics, and was now, after they had obtained by it all they required, discovered to be a grievance.
 MR. BLAKE  said, that he must oppose this Bill as he had opposed the original Act when it was brought in. A Return for which he had moved some years ago showed that the counties and baronies in Ireland were proclaimed upon the most ridiculous and frivolous pretexts. Cork, for instance, was proclaimed, not because of any crime or outrage which had been committed, but on a charge of disaffection, in the year 1848. The fact that peace and tranquillity were observable throughout the county rendered the renewal of the Act perfectly unnecessary. When a barony in Ireland was proclaimed under the provisions of this Act no person was allowed to carry a gun without a licence, and it was an easy thing for any person to make a representation to the authorities that an outrage had been perpetrated, in order that a proclamation might be issued. The Chief Secretary must have seen that persecutions had taken place under the Act. In order to show the tyranny which had been practised under its provisions he might instance one or two cases which had occurred, In Tipperary a young lad possessed a toy dagger of the most harmless description, hut his possession of this dangerous weapon having become known to the police they entered the house in which he lived and arrested him, and the boy
 320 Douglas
 MR. COBBOLD  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Captain Jervis), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received any Despatch or Document from the Government of any Presidency in India, pointing out that the measures devised to redress the complaints of the Officers of the local service have created a grievance for the Officers of the Staff Corps, by causing not
 260
 MR. SPEAKER : Let me point out to the hon. Gentleman that this is not a fitting occasion to reply to a speech made in a former debate and on another subject. This is not the continuance of a debate on the same Bill.
 MR. LANIGAN  said, he must deny that Ireland was in a state to require the renewal of this Act. The gaols were almost empty. At the last assizes in the North Riding of Tipperary the grand jury disposed of the business in about an hour; and the judge who presided got rid of all the criminal cases in about six hours. He hoped the Bill would not be pressed.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would name Monday for the resumption of the debate.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he trusted that English and Scotch Members would give the Bill some further consideration. The Chief Secretary for Ireland admitted that the Bill was of an exceptional character. No substantial reason had been given for its introduction, and he was quite certain that it would not be tolerated for England. The right hon. Gentleman admitted that the state of Ireland afforded no justification for the passing of such a penal measure. Some gentleman connected with the North of Ireland asked for the Bill, because Ireland was filled with peace and contentment, and the right hon. Gentleman asked for it because Ireland had vastly improved, and was free from outrages. Tipperary was as peaceful as London, and there was no necessity for such exceptional legislation. The right hon. Gentleman said that he did not believe in the existence of the Fenians, and therefore this Bill must be passed. Surely the House would not support this reasoning. He blushed with shame when he saw Volunteers parading through London while they were not permitted in Ireland. If there were any reason for this Bill, he (Mr. Maguire) would readily agree to it; but in truth there was none. The Government had not pursued a generous policy towards Ireland; and he thought that it was time that they did so. England would not bear one-tenth of such severity as the Bill proposed to inflict upon Ireland which was now in a state of permanent tranquility. The wisest policy Government could adopt would be to trust the people rather than to exhibit this continual distrust of them. He was aware it would be absurd as well as factious to fight the Bill through its various stages, but it was the duty of Members who opposed it to take one division in order to show their feeling upon the subject.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to refer to a very peculiar circumstance connected with this Bill—namely, that during the last Administration of the late Sir Robert Peel this Bill had been introduced and rejected by a largo majority, and Sir Robert Peel was turned out. Now that the state of Ireland had greatly improved the Bill had been again introduced. It did not come with a very good grace from the party who had before resisted it.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, the arguments of his hon. and learned Friend against the clause were just those used against Lord Brougham's Bill, the merit of which, by
 311
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he rose to Order. He was against the Proviso, hut he wished to see their proceedings carried on with order. He believed the Proviso had been declared to be carried.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that in the City of London the Statute of Frauds was practically a dead letter. A vast number of transactions took place without any writing at all, the security being merely the character of the parties.
 MR. WALTER  said, he felt some difficulty as a layman in offering an opinion on a subject of that kind; but he must take leave to say that he thought the arguments urged against the clause wore by no means satisfactory. His hon. and learned Friends, the Attorney General and the Member for the University (Mr. Selwyn), had spoken in very strong terms—although in terms, no doubt, which were not stronger than were deserved—of the gross scandal to public morals to which divorce cases gave rise. But in a question of that nature what they had to look to was not whether more or less scandal or disgrace would be produced by the operation of that clause, but whether or not it would facilitate the ends of justice by eliciting the truth, and so tend to prevent innocent persons from suffering cruelty and wrong. These divorce cases were in themselves scandals, that was an evil inherent in their very nature, and it could not be helped. But if the effect of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir FitzRoy Kelly's)
 319
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN   reported
 MR. J. C. EWART  said, in the absence of the hon. Member for Dumfries (Mr. William Ewart), he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in the event of the contemplated issue of a new Silver Coinage, it is intended to adopt the
 262
 MR. BASS  said, if the Chancellor of the Exchequer had no fear then as to the effect upon indirect taxation by merely reducing the Malt Duty, why did he not try the experiment by reducing the duty to one-half of the present amount. He wished also to observe that the present mode of levying the duty led to an excessive amount being paid. He was intimately acquainted with a house which had, during the last six
 276
 MR. BASS  said, he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer was going a little too far when he said that indirect taxation would be utterly destroyed by the reduction of the Malt Duty, since all they asked for was that it might be reduced one-half.
 MR. BASS  said, that would be to go too low, and the result would be to introduce the very poor foreign baileys. The figure of 531b. was the full weight of the average of malting barley.
 MR. M'MAHON  said, this clause made receipts given for sums deposited on allotments of shares liable to stamp duty. Was it not desirable that the letters of allotment themselves should also be subject to the duty?
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he hoped it was by accident that the Bill was not brought forward at an early hour, when English Members could see the nature of it. No such law as this was ever thought of for England or Scotland: and there was no pretence for it in Ireland where there had been no recent agrarium outrages. The Peace Preservation Act had been made a source of great oppression and injustice. He hoped the right hon. Baronet the Secretary for Ireland (Sir Robert Peel) would state to the House clearly the necessity which existed for the Bill, and what clauses he considered it imperative to pass.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, that the charges delivered by the Judges during the last two or three years showed that there was no necessity for any such measure as this. Instances had occurred in almost every county in Ireland in which, without its being so intended, these Acts had operated oppressively, and he, therefore, trusted that, under existing circumstances, the right hon. Baronet would not think it necessary to press this Bill. The state of the county which he represented was conclusive against the necessity for such a measure, and the opinion of Irish Members was decidedly against it.
 MR. MALINS  said, that with respect to this being only a permissive clause its effect would be the same as if it were compellable. A person accused might or might not tender themselves to give evidence; but if they did not, what would be said by the learned counsel on the other side? Would not absence from the witness-box be held to be a direct admission of guilt? He had opposed the creation of this court from the first; and he deplored its existence now as one of the greatest public calamities of the country. He would consent to nothing which would increase and aggravate the evils arising from it, and he should, therefore, vote against the clause.
 MR. MALINS  said, that in the borough which he represented (Wallingford) there was so much diversity of opinion with reference to the repeal of the Malt Tax that it became a question entirely for the private judgment of the Member. Now, although he voted for the Motion of the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), on account of the moderation of its terms, he pointed out to his constituents that the maintenance of the revenue was of more importance than the repeal of the Malt Duty. He, like every one else, approved the reduction of the income tax and of the duty on fire insurances; but he thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not right in reducing the tea duty. Nobody expected such a reduction, and the surplus which he had in hand ought to have been devoted to a reduction of the Malt Duty, which was being loudly asked for by a large number of persons in and out of Parliament. As the agricultural interest had expressed so decided an opinion on the subject, and the right hon. Gentleman had not granted them a boon for a long time, he hoped that if the right hon. Gentleman had a surplus next year, he would avail himself of the opportunity of carrying into effect the
 278
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he opposed the clause. He said he could conceive nothing more repugnant to the feelings than that any reckless individual should be allowed to call into the witness-box a woman, whom he had perhaps deceived, and subject her to examination and cross-examination as to the nature of her entire past life. The instincts of gentlemen revolted at this action being treated like an action on a
 315
 MR. TORRENS  said, he thought that Government would be very unwise if they did not press this measure.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that some years ago a circular was sent round to the railway companies, after a serious accident had taken place in France and loss of life had been caused by the circumstance that the doors of the carriages were locked. The circular asked the companies to take care that in future both doors should not be locked, and from the answers that were received it appeared that all the companies concurred in the necessity of having at least one door left open. It appeared that at the recent accident at Keynsham, on the Great Western Railway, both doors of some of the compartments were locked; but that he believed was the result of accident. Some of the carriages had been turned at the previous station, and the person whose duty it was to have unlocked what had been the off doors, but which had become the near doors, forgot to do so. He was also informed that the accident arose from
 263
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he could not answer the question. He was informed that the door locked was always the off door, otherwise persons might get out on that side and find themselves run over by the trains on the other line.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he wished that the fees in Ireland should not exceed those in England, and he begged to propose an Amendment to that effect.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had always opposed these Algerine Acts for Ireland. Such a thing would not be tolerated for one moment in England. The Bill was entitled, "An Act to continue and amend the Peace Preservation Act," a complete misnomer. He should like to know what amendments would be introduced by the Secretary for Ireland? Tipperary was always under the Peace Preservation Act. During the garrotting times in London he found it necessary to provide himself with a weapon, but when he went to Tipperary he was in danger of being arrested by an officious policeman for carrying weapons in a proclaimed district without having a licence, so he got a licence—a document printed in red ink—a sanguinary affair, giving him leave to carry one gun and two pistols. But this did not prevent bad characters having arms, and if a Member of Parliament passed through Tipperary with a fowling-piece and stopped at Goolds' Cross Station he would be liable to be arrested. Lord Lismore, the lord lieutenant of the county, happened to send his gun by his servant to the gunsmith for repairs, and the policeman finding him with a gun in a proclaimed district — it was the town of Nenagh—brought him before the magistrates. And sometimes it was difficult to get a licence; the landlord of one of the police barracks, who was a tenant of his, applied to the resident ma-
 321
 MR. SCULLY  said, he had to complain that in Ireland, in transactions with regard to land, persons had to pay double stamp duty as compared with the duty in England. In England they had to pay only a
 308 s. ad valorem
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, if his hon. Friends furnished him with the particulars of the several cases he would see what could be done.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he felt the force of what had been said, and thought it would be very desirable that they should have a consolidation of the Stamp Acts.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the appeal in the decisions referred to by the right hon. Baronet lay to the superior courts as in ordinary cases. The other remarks of the right hon. Baronet were rather wide of the objects of the clause, which related only to appeals with regard to decisions as to inland revenue questions. The question of licensing was a large, interesting, and difficult one. He hoped the Legislature would shortly approach its consideration, but he doubted whether the preparation of a measure to meet the difficulties was part of the proper duties of a Finance Minister.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, he was not in a condition at present to give a very distinct answer to the question of the hon. Member. No proposal had been made or matured up to the present time for the issue of a new silver coinage, or the composition of that coinage. He understood that the Master of the Mint, who had great and deserved authority on all matters connected with his office, entertained certain views with respect to the best composition for silver coins, but he had not yet made any proposition to the Government on the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, he had no reason to suppose that any advantage would be derived by large towns from the extension of the provisions of the Act 26 & 27  Vict.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would now state what he thought to be the practical operation of this clause, which was the material and operative clause of the Bill. He was far from saying that the effect of this provision would be that which, in point of fact, was desirable—namely, to apportion the weight of the Malt Tax in every instance to the real malting value of the barley. There were malting qualities in different kinds of barley which this Bill would not touch, such as colour, skin, and the friable quality of the farine, which ingredients helped to determine the price. But one great quality ran through all barleys, which, other things being equal, was of great importance in determining their value, and that was weight. As far as weight was concerned, he hoped the Bill would have the effect of placing light barley on as fair and equitable footing, as far as the tax was concerned, as that in which heavy barleys stood. Most of the Amendments he proposed were verbal, but he had to propose an important one, and that was to fill up the blank in the clause with "531b.," which was to be taken as the standard of weight. If they were to fix the pivot weight too high they would give no relief, and would diminish to a considerable extent the revenue from malt. He had endeavoured to ascertain from the best authorities what were those barleys which ought really to be considered light with reference to malting, and what should be the point of division between these and the heavy barleys. What they aimed at curing by the present Bill was the defect that the amount of the Malt Duty was made to depend on measure. The problem of the maltster was to get out of a given bulk as much malting power as he could. In order to do that he looked to the quality of the bailey, and the better the barley the greater would be the amount of extract it would yield from a given bulk. The bulk of malting barley did not differ in any great degree, but the amount and value of the malt produced from them differed greatly though it was subjected to nearly
 279 280
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he spoke of repeal and not reduction.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the speech of his hon. and
 273 274 275
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the proposition of the hon. Gentleman was a new one, and might, perhaps, at some period be taken into consideration, but at present he felt precluded from requiring that letters of allotment should be subject to the duty.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was under the impression that under the provisions of the Bill Irish cases would be determined in Ireland, but in the event of that not being the case, he would take care to introduce an Amendment to rectify the omission.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, a great portion of this debate had arisen from the importation into it of what he had endeavoured to exclude — that it was the design of the Bill to abolish those duties which were now performed by the Controller of the Exchequer. That had been assumed by the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu), by his hon. Friend opposite (Sir Stafford Northcote), and by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir Francis Baring). Now, he had stated, as clearly as he could, that that was not the intention of the Bill. He said in express terms that all the duties of the Controller of the Exchequer should continue to be performed precisely as they were now performed, until Parliament had had the opportunity of considering the question. He had asked for power to prevent the neces-
 303 304 quam diu se bene gesserit
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had some Amendments to propose in this clause, with a view to the
 305 6d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that various inquiries had been carefully made, and the weights not only went below fifty-three but also fifty-two and even fifty-one. The result of the alteration would be that foreign barleys would receive the main portion of the benefit of the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the object of the Bill was to give effect to a treaty which had not yet been ratified, and therefore could not be presented to the House in the usual form by command of Her Majesty, but for the information of the House, as the treaty required legislation, a copy had been presented as a return from the Treasury. The treaty was an attempt to establish a practical equality as far as regarded sugar duties between four European countries, which among them comprised a very large
 281 282 283
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, this was a limited and partial measure on a subject of considerable extent and importance. In 1857 a Committee of great weight was appointed to consider a subject of wide range, and was called the Committee on Public Moneys. This Committee recommended a large extension of the duties and powers of the Board of Audit. They added—
 "If these suggestions be adopted it will be necessary that the composition and relative position of this Board, as a great Department of State, should be re-considered by the executive Government. The Board of Audit is responsible to Parliament alone; and the station and emoluments of the person at the head of it should be equal in the importance of the duties to be performed, and not second in rank to any permanent officer presiding over our other principal Departments." 285 286 287
 MR. BARROW  said, he did not share in any reproach which might be thrown by the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the advocates of the repeal of the Malt Tax. He did not wish to place the reduction of the Income Tax and the Tea Duty in competition with the repeal of the Malt Duty.
 MR. BARROW  said, he had been requested to urge upon the right hon. Gentleman the necessity of raising the average to fifty-four and not to fifty-three, if he meant to benefit the growers of barley on strong lands.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to repeat the question which he had put on a former occasion as to the intention of the Government to fill up the office of Inspector of Charities, vacant by the death of Mr. J. Simons, jun.
 MR. MONSELL,  in moving the third reading of this Bill, said, at that late hour of the night he was compelled to ask the kind indulgence of the House whilst he made some brief observations in reply to the objections raised against the present measure. With regard to the objection so generally made that this Bill ought not to have been brought in by a private Member, he begged hon. Gentlemen to recollect that this Bill was not one to impose any now oath or burden, but it was one simply to repeal certain clauses in the existing oath taken by Roman Catholic Members. He hoped if the measure should be successful that it would lead to the adoption of one uniform oath for all. Such a Bill, he would admit, ought to be brought in by the Government; but it was perfectly fair that those who complained of certain clauses of an oath which they had taken should make their complaint to the House, and, if it were well founded, that their grievance should be redressed. But the real point to which he wished to draw attention was the argument used by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) in his opposition to the measure: because if this Bill should fail in arriving at that stage when it would become law, such failure would be owing to that right hon. Gentleman alone. It was the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire who had rallied his party to endeavour to mutilate the Bill in its progress through Committee. If, then, the existing oath be preserved it would be
 326 327
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he should support the clause.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he wished to direct the Chancellor of the Exchequer's attention to the fact that ships might be sold, assigned, or mortgaged without making any return to the revenue by means of stamps, and the law even provided an admirable and cheap machinery for doing so. It was for the right hon. Gentleman to consider whether the stamp duty, payable on the mortgage of land, should not be extended to the transfer of ships.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, this clause directed that appeals against adjudications on stamp duties in Scotch cases should he determined by the Court of Exchequer in Scotland. He wished to know why appeals in Irish cases were not to be determined in Ireland.
 MR. BAINES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether there is any truth in the rumour that the negotiations for a new Anglo-Austrian Commercial Treaty has failed.
 SIR FRANCIS BARING  said, he could assure the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) that there was no truth whatever in the reports to which he had referred in respect to this question. He wished that that Bill had been brought forward when there was a better opportunity for its discussion. It was a short Bill, but it dealt with a matter of far greater moment
 297 298
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he seconded the Motion. In one respect the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fallen into an error. The right hon. Gentleman had rightly said that the present office of Controller of the Exchequer included very heterogeneous matters, but the union of that office with the Chairmanship of the Board of Audit would entail duties very little homogeneous. It must be an anomaly to unite in one person the duties of exercising control over issues and of presiding over a body which performed the duties of audit. Lord Monteagle, in his evidence, had stated that the most important manner in which the Controller of the Exchequer acted was when he acted by way of prevention, and the knowledge of the existence of that check prevented any necessity for the use of it. If there was not some control there would be great confusion in the appropriation of the sums voted by Parliament. He understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that the office of the Chairman of the Board of Audit was held  quam diu se bene gesserit. quam diu se bene gesserit quam diu se bene gesserit supersedeas supersedeas 296 vice versâ? pro tanto
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he was aware that in referring to those breach of promise cases he was touching on delicate ground; but he hoped he should avoid giving offence to any one in that House or in higher regions. He thought that the Legislature had shown its wisdom by making cases of breach of promise an exception to the general rule, for a person
 310
 MR. CAIRD  said, he would avoid any reference to the former debate, and would confine his observations entirely to the effect of the Malt Tax upon the agriculture of the country. With regard to the argument of injustice to Scotland in the matter of the spirit duty, that had not been advanced by any Scotchman. The consumption of whisky in that country was decreasing, and that of beer steadily increasing. He was informed that the quantity of malt used in Edinburgh in brewing beer had risen from 32,000 quarters in 1854 to 150,000 quarters in 1864, and that from two causes—first, the increased price of spirits; and secondly, the improved quality of the beer. A change from raw spirits to beer was one which all wise men commended, and any policy which would tend that way would not be unjust to Scotland. One word with regard to the interests of the consumers of beer. In every country, except England, milk was much used as an article of food by the
 268
 MR. CAIRD  said, that this Bill would, in his opinion, redress part of the just grievance of the barley growers, and he therefore supported it. He had declined to offer any opinion on the subject of the Malt Tax in the discussion on the Budget, as he entirely approved the remissions made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. But the right hon. Gentleman, though he had since modified his language, spoke so strongly against the policy of any future reduction of the Malt Tax, that he felt desirous of presenting some points on the subject for his consideration. He held that a tax which impeded the growth of barley was injurious to the agriculture of this country. Of all corn crops, barley was the most friendly to the farmer. It was the shortest time in the ground, was the least exhaustive of the soil, was sown at the best season for cleaning and cultivating it, while it formed the best preparation for grass, and was the most suitable to follow green crops. Independent of its own value, barley farming thus promoted good husbandry, and the growth of those crops which were necessary for the production of meat, dairy produce, and wool. Now, the production of meat in this country was
 265 266 267
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, what he had stated was that he did not believe in the disaffection of the Fenians, of which they had heard so much; neither did he believe that the loyalty of the people of Ireland would allow of an insurrection being attempted either by that or any other body of men.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he was quite ready to admit that the state of the country was vastly improved from what it was in 1860. He believed that Tipperary was as peaceful and as quiet as the streets of London. Still there were certain districts which were considered dangerous and which had been proclaimed. In conjunction with the authorities at the Irish Office he had gone carefully through the proclaimed list,
 322 323
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he could not refrain from expressing his regret that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in introducing this measure, should have laid so much stress upon the small saving which would ultimately accrue from the amalgamation of these two offices, because the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman had, he feared, conveyed the impression to some hon. Gentlemen who had taken part in the debate that the Bill had been introduced for the purpose of effecting a saving of one or two thousand pounds a year. If that were so it was a strong reason for not proceeding further with it. It seemed to him, however, there was a more important object to be obtained by the measure. To some extent he differed from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Portsmouth (Sir Francis Baring), and he was in favour of what he understood to be the principle of the Bill. The real subject for consideration was what should be the arrangement for securing the right appropriation of public money. They had at present three offices—the Treasury, the Exchequer, and the Audit Office, with certain functions divided between them, those functions being derived from very ancient times. As those functions, however, had of late years from the condition of affairs, become greatly changed, he thought it was advisable that their position should now be revised. It was especially worthy the consideration of the House whether there any longer existed any real necessity for keeping up the department of the Exchequer at all. If, as he inferred, the object of the Bill was to put an end to the control of the Exchequer as a distinct office of the estate, while, individually, he was willing to consent to such a course he felt scrupulous at adopting, at the present stage of the present Parliament, a measure contemplating such an object. The question was one of great importance, and one upon which, as they
 299 300 301
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he wished to inquire to whom the appeal lay from the decisions of the Commissioners of
 306
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he thought that, as a large amount of revenue was raised under the licensing system, it was one that came within the functions of the Finance Committee.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he would appeal to the hon. Member to withdraw the measure. He had made his speech, and he ought to be satisfied, and not give Members the trouble of coming down to the House to oppose it, because he had no earthly chance of carrying it this Session.
 MR. J. PEEL  said, that though as a Member of the Committee he felt the road would be a great public convenience, there were reasons which led the Committee to a strong opinion that the measure ought not to be sanctioned.
 MR. BARING  said, he was willing, if this regulation would interfere with the eel fishery, to omit the clause.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he should oppose the Motion, on the ground that it would be an extremely dangerous precedent to hand over private property to a company like the Credit Foncier, which had no connection with the locality to which the measure related. It was also a very objectionable process, and one calculated to bring discredit upon Parliament, to sanction Bills before the companies were formed. The scheme was promoted by strangers who had no claims to it. If such applications were allowed, no man's house would be his castle whenever a company got up a little capital for the purpose of turning him out.
 MR. T. G. BARING  moved the following clause:—
 (Provisions as to exportation of salmon.) "All salmon intended for exportation shall be entered for that purpose with the proper officer of Customs, at the port or place of intended exportation, before shipment thereof; and any salmon shipped or exported, or brought to any wharf, quay, or other place for exportation, contrary to this section, shall be forfeited, and the person shipping or exporting or bringing the same for exportation shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding two pounds for every salmon so shipped or exported or brought for exportation; and any officer of the Customs may, between the third day of September and the second day of February, open any parcel entered or intended for exportation, or brought to any quay, wharf, or other place for that purpose, and suspected by him to contain salmon, and may detain any salmon found in such parcel until proof is given, in manner provided by law, of the salmon being such as may be legally exported; and, if the salmon before such proof is given become unfit for human food, the officer of Customs may destroy the same."
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that there was at present no intention to alter the rank of Paymasters as suggested by the hon. Gentleman. The whole question of relative rank was considered by Lord Herbert in 1860, when the Warrant which fixed the rank of Paymasters was settled; and that noble Lord objected to adopt the measure indicated by the hon. Gentleman for several reasons into which he (the Marquess of Hartington) need not enter. One reason, which had considerable weight with Lord Herbert, was that there had never been any difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of well-qualified Paymasters, while there had been considerable difficulty in getting properly qualified Army Surgeons. Paymasters were not the only Officers who might complain that their relative rank was altered by that which was conferred upon Surgeons by the Medical Warrant of 1858.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that after the Report of the Committee on the 12-pounder Armstrong
 367
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he wished to know when the Consuls would enter upon their duties.
 MR. PEEL,  in reply, said, the removal of the Irish Records could not take place till the new building was ready to receive them, which would not be until the month of October. No definite plan had yet been adopted, but probably it would be found advisable to form a Record Establishment on principles similar to those followed in this country.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said the third part of the Report
 369
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, there were two points asserted in the Resolution. The one was the inexpediency of appointing naval officers who were not possessed of a technical knowledge of the business in Her Majesty's dockyards, and the other was a disapproval of the practice of limiting their tenure of office to five years. Now, many hon. Members might be disposed to agree with the one, but to dissent from the other. Having passed a portion of his life in connection with the dockyards, he thought it would be extremely inconvenient not to have naval officers at the head of those establishments, and he was convinced that the men themselves employed in the dockyards would feel more satisfaction if a naval officer were placed as Superintendent than they would if a mere layman occupied the position, however superior he might be in technical knowledge. The character, and influence, and authority of naval officers were necessary to keep the dockyards in order. He was never aware that the captains of the yards interfered minutely with the details of business; their duty was to superintend the general arrangements. As to the other point, in regard to limiting the tenure of office to five years, he thought that where a captain was superintending, and before the end of the term succeeded to his flag, there might be a modification of the rule so far as not to allow him to retire until the end of the term.
 MR. CORRY  said, the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had thrown a new light upon the resolution of the hon. Member for Lincoln. So far as he (Mr. Corry) understood its meaning it went to say, not that naval officers, but that civilians possessed of a technical knowledge of shipbuilding ought to be appointed to the office of Superintendent. He was not present when the hon. Gentleman made his statement, but he was told that that was the sense in which he spoke. He (Mr. Corry) should like to know if the interpretation which was now put upon the Resolution by the hon. Member for Birmingham be correct, what right had the hon. Member for Lincoln to assume that naval officers placed at the head of the dockyards had not that competent knowledge of shipbuilding which he deemed so necessary? He spoke with some experience of the Admiralty when he asserted that the Board always endeavoured to select the best qualified officers that could be found to occupy the post of Superintendents of Her Majesty's dockyards. He should like to hear the name of a Superintendent who had been found to be incompetent. He maintained that, as a general rule, they had been well selected, and performed their duties satisfactorily. It was a mistaken opinion that it was necessary that the head of the dockyard should be a shipbuilder. They might as well say that artists should be canvas-makers, because they painted on canvas. If the object were merely to build ships it would be different, hut after a ship was built there was much to be done to put her into a proper state for sea, and to fit her as a man-of-war, and it was not to be expected that an officer of the rank of Staff Commander, exercising the duties of a master attendant, in whose department this lay, would take his orders from a master shipwright. Although the plans, &c, were laid down in the office of the Surveyor of the Navy, Superintendents of dockyards frequently communicated valuable
 394
 COLONEL SYES  said, the Order of the Bath was so strictly a Military Order that according to its statutes no officer ever could receive it whose name had not appeared in the  Gazette
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he felt convinced that his hon. Friend who had brought forward this Motion (Mr. Hanbury Tracy) would be the last to desire to interfere with the Prerogative of Her Majesty, and that he only wished that some remedy might be devised which would put a stop to the dissatisfaction which existed with regard to the distribution of these Orders—a dissatisfaction about the existence of which there could not possibly be any doubt. The improvement desired was not dictated
 407
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he did not understand what was meant when hon. Members charged his Department with spending money without the authority of the House. The House had year after year voted sums to be expended in making a collection of objects of art in the Museum, and an account was annually rendered of the manner in which the sums granted
 414 415
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he had omitted to notice one portion of the speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Dillwyn)—namely, that respecting the production of certain papers. He certainly objected to the production of the Correspondence between the Departments, but he would not object to produce the Correspondence between the owners of the collection at Manchester and the department in question.
 MR. H. BERKELEY : Sir, I rise to move an Amendment—
 "That, as a General Election is impending, and we have no Law which can put down the intimidation of Voters nor prevent Bribery, it is, therefore, expedient that a trial should he given to the Vote by Ballot." 417 "I look upon the ballot as the primary step of all reform. Of all the points of what is called the People's Charter there is nothing so odious to the aristocracy, to the landocracy, and the monied oligarchy that governs elections as the question of the vote by ballot." 418 "I have written a pamphlet against the ballot very clever, of course, but the ballot will come write I never so wisely." cheval de bataille, The Times "If I thought the electors of this country were so hopelessly and selfishly dependent on the landlords I should be, as I once was, a supporter of the ballot." 419 "My belief is founded not merely on what I have heard from others, but upon my own observations. I believe a system has been extensively pursued, to deter electors, by threats of injury to themselves, from electing the persons whom they think most fit to represent them." 420 421 422 "Watch the proceedings of a landlord with his tenants, and mark how he seeks to extinguish in them all sense of public obligation." "What is at stake (said this speaker) is nothing less than the vitality of the representative body. If ever the majority, or a preponderating portion of the Members, represent only their own pockets, we shall have indeed what Mr. Disraeli calls a Venetian constitution, and that in a very bad form. It would be a great mistake to suppose that we have seen the worst of this evil. I am persuaded we are only at the beginning of it when we see the number of persons constantly becoming wealthy, whose sole anxiety is to attain what alone wealth has not given them—namely, position. It is this class of persons who make this evil an increasing one—the vulgar rich—to whom it is worth while to spend any amount of money for the sake of distinction in society." 423 424 "All persons residing in this street and the neighbouring courts who have no votes, are requested to call and tell me whether I must vote for Garnett or Brotherton at the ensuing election." bonâ fide 425 "In favour of my voting for Brotherton, 57; in favour of my voting for Garnett, 23; majority for Brotherton, 34. Consequently I shall vote for Brotherton." reductio ad absurdum "You vote in secret. You have nothing to fear, for safety is secured to you by the wisest legislation our lawgivers ever knew."
 MR. H. BERKELEY : I think I answered the speech of the noble Lord before he made it.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT,  said, he believed that the Admiralty in selecting the Superintendents were not actuated by party feelings, but chose the officers most capable of presiding over the dockyards. If the Superintendents were acquainted with shipbuilding they would be more efficient, but that knowledge was not indispensable, as they had under them assistants who possessed experience in the construction of vessels. He admitted that the expense was considerably more in the Royal dockyards than in the private yards, but that was owing to the contracts, with the making of which the Superintendents had nothing to do. The present Motion might be of advantage in directing the attention of the Admiralty to many points which had been touched upon, but he thought that naval officers were the most suitable persons to preside over the Royal dockyards. The most important duty they had to perform was to examine ships when they came home from foreign stations, and put them in an efficient state to proceed to some other distant station—in fact, they were called upon to discharge duties which no Superintendent Shipwright would be able to perform. In case of war, or of a ship requiring to be immediately refitted on her coming home from a foreign station, it would be impossible to rely on the yards at Liverpool and Glasgow, and in the Thames. He hoped the hon. Member would not press his Motion.
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, he rose to ask the noble Lord at the head of the Government the question of which he had given notice, and in doing so claimed the indulgence of the House, feeling that he was treading on somewhat delicate ground. The appointments to and promotions in the Order of the Bath which had recently been made had attracted the attention of officers of all grades in both branches of Her Majesty's service, and they found themselves unable to reconcile those appointments and promotions with the original design with which the order was
 401 "Unless his services should have been marked by especial mention in despatches, as having distinguished himself by his valour and conduct in action against the enemy whilst in command of a ship of war, of troops, or while at the head of a military department, or as having by some actual service under his immediate conduct and direction contributed to the success of such action." 402 403
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  merely rose to thank the right hon. Gentleman for this Bill which was for the same object as that which he (Sir Charles Douglas) had last night withdrawn, respecting "the discretionary powers of Justices of the Peace;" but he must record his protest against one principle it appeared to recognize—namely, that of committing an offender to prison for a longer period for non-payment of a pecuniary penalty, than the law allowed as a punishment for the offence itself, for which the fine could be inflicted.
 LORD ELCHO  said, they purchased it to prevent its being dispersed, and then offered it to the Government at cost price.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to say a few words with respect to this Motion. He held in his hand a copy of a Correspondence for which he had moved in 1858 respecting this collection, which had been described as the greatest rubbish in the world. Certainly in matters of taste there would always be disputes; but if the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) referred to that Correspondence he would find that seventy gentlemen interested in art and manufactures—manufacturers, art-workmen, and others—subscribed £24,000 in order to purchase this collection as a nucleus for South Kensington before the Government interfered in the matter. At the head of that subscription were the names of some of the first men in the country, such as Lord Granville, the late Lord Ashburton, Mr. Napier, of Glasgow, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Sheepshanks, and, in short, the names of all the manufacturers in Great Britain who had acquired a reputation between 1851 and 1862. The Go-
 413
 MR. W. O. STANLEY,  who had given notice to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty—
 "If there was any special Report made to the Lords of the Admiralty, by the Admiral of the station, as to the loss of ninety-two Sailors and Marines from the burning of Her Majesty's Ship  Bombay, "If he can state the number of Marines and Sailors who were drowned, separately, and the length of time that elapsed from the first breaking out of the fire to the sinking of the ship: "If there were any patent Life-Belts on board; and, if so, if they were used: "If there is any order, rule, or system in the Navy, or the Marine Corps, under which the recruits or men are taught to swim; and if the boys in the service are instructed in the art of swimming: "And, how many the crew of Her Majesty's Ship  Bombay
 MR. W. O. STANLEY  said, he was of the opinion that the resolution was a most
 393
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I am far from being displeased that the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) should have again taken the trouble to go into the various details connected with the expenditure in our dockyards, but the House will see that it is impossible for either myself or my hon. Colleague to follow him through them. Nevertheless, I sincerely hope that the figures will, as the hon. Gentleman hopes, appear in  The Times, 382 383 384 385 Warrior.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I never said so. I should be sorry to say any such thing. I did not say Government had no means of discharging inefficient persons. What I said was, that if in a private yard a person does not suit they can discharge him at once; but the Government have not the same, facility for discharging persons that private firms have.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I put it to the House, whether it is fair for an hon. Member to come down to the House with an array of figures on matters of pure detail, and make a statement upon them, without giving us the opportunity of looking at them, or without any notice that he was going into such details. I appeal to
 390
 EARL PERCY  moved, in section 1, line 8, after "appointed," to add—
 "Provided always, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the said Board of Conservators from obtaining the services of additional constables under the Act third and fourth Victoria, chapter eighty-eight, section nineteen, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act; such constables, when appointed, to have all the powers and privileges of water bailiffs, and to be paid for their services by the said Board."
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, it seemed to him that the Resolution before the House came to this, that officers who were not possessed of a technical knowledge of the work carried on in the dockyards should not be appointed. A great many naval officers, however, were possessed of that knowledge. There were various other things to be taken into consideration besides the building of ships.
 391
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair what was the Question before the House? The original question had been that the Speaker do leave the Chair, to which an Amendment had been moved, and the House decided that ail the words after the word "that" should be omitted. Now the House had decided that other words should not be added, and the consequence was that the word "that" was the only question before the House. He wished to know whether it was competent for an hon. Member to put a Question upon that word.
 MR. O'REILLY  rose to order. He understood the word "That" was the only word which remained of the Motion before the House; to this the last Motion was an addition, and the whole of that Motion being withdrawn, a new Motion might be put.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he on the contrary hoped that the House would accept the Resolution in the sense in which it was intended. The noble Lord (Viscount Palmerston) had entirely misconceived its meaning. It declared that it was inexpedient to continue the practice of appointing naval officers who possessed no technical knowledge of the business of the dockyards. He was sure that the noble Lord would not assert that the naval officers who had been made Superintendents had been appointed in consequence of their technical knowledge. It was matter of notoriety that they were appointed because they were distinguished fighting officers. All that the Resolution affirmed was that if a naval officer was appointed he ought to be a man who possessed technical knowledge, and that if no officer so qualified could be found the Government ought to look elsewhere.
 MR. FINLAY  said, he admitted that with regard to economy the Royal dock-
 398
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thought that his hon. Friend would be in order, because this was a new Motion before the House.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that to all intents and purposes the Government had purchased the collection, and the mat-
 416 faux pas faux pas
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that British Consuls who had been long resident in the Southern ports were either actually upon the spot or shortly would be. The Consuls who before the war were stationed at New Orleans and Savannah, had died, and their places had been already filled; the Consul at Galveston never left his post; the Consul at Charleston had been promoted to be Consul General at Cuba, but the Vice Consul who succeeded him had never been absent. The Consul at Mobile had been removed to another station, and was no longer in the service; but the gentleman actually in charge of the Consulate had been out there during the whole of the war.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, on the 1st of July, when the ports were open.
 MR. NEATE  said, he had always understood from reading works of fiction, particularly the novels of Captain Marryat, which were the principal source of his nautical knowledge, that a naval officer ought to be acquainted with all the details of his ship, and if the offices in the dockyards were open to them as a prize, they would have an interest in acquiring that knowledge. It was very undesirable, therefore, that the present system should be altered.
 MR. SEELY,  in introducing the Motion of which he had given notice regarding the appointment of Dockyard Superintendents, said, the Admiralty had the power of going to the same market with other shipbuilding establishments for their materials, and he could only come to the conclusion that the reason why the work was to the amount of from half a million to a million a year more expensively done in the Royal dockyards than was necessary was on account of the mismanagement prevailing in them. It could scarcely be expected that the Lords of the Admiralty, considering the rank from which they were taken, would have any practical knowledge of shipbuilding, but it might be reasonably expected that they would take care to appoint persons enjoying that knowledge which they themselves did not possess. He would briefly examine the securities taken for the efficient and economical management of the dockyards. The first
 370 "He is a naval officer put there to superintend all the different departments that are under him. He cannot be practically acquainted with shipbuilding. He is in a worse position, in point of knowledge, than the Controller is with regard to the Superintendent who is under him. The Controller has been for many years in the situation, whereas the Superintendents in the dockyards are removed every five years, and therefore cannot be expected to be practically conversant with shipbuilding or the details of manufactures that are now going on in the dockyards." 371 "Their hands are very much tied by 'instructions' All officers of every grade are subordinate to them. They are required to use the utmost zeal and diligence in seeing orders of the Board carried out, and must exercise as far as possible a personal supervision over every part of the establishment committed to their care. 'Can' discharge workmen for misconduct, 'but' have no direct control over the expenditure of the yards, 'and' the number of workmen, the rate of wages, and the distribution of labour are arranged in London.'" 372 "Chatham Boathouses.—25 boats fitted, cost £10 6 s. d., s. d. s. s. s. s. d." "Portsmouth Boathouses.—85 boats fitted, cost £18 15 s. s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d." 373 "Sheerness Smitheries,—Common Forgings.— 1,679 cwt., cost 27s. 6½ d. s. "Devonport Smitheries.—Common Forgings.—3,503 cwt., cost 16 s. d. s. "Portsmouth Smitheries.—Plain Forgings.—2,488 cwt., cost 47 s. d. s. "Devonport Smitheries.—Plain Forgings.— 2,250 cwt., cost 33 s. d. s. "Portsmouth Smitheries.—Middling Forgings.—1,992 cwt., cost 58 s. d s. d. "Devonport Smitheries.—Middling Forgings.—2,234 cwt., cost 44 s. d. s. d. "Portsmouth Smitheries.—Extra Forgings.— 727 cwt.; cost 129 s. s. Sheerness Smitheries.—Extra Forgings.— 422 cwt., cost 62 s. d. s. "In the Portsmouth steam-hammer shops, 3,777 cwt. blanks cost 31 s. d s. d. s. s. s. d. 374 s. d. d. s. d. d. d. d. s. d., s. d. s. d. d. s. d.; s. d. d. s. d. s. d. d. d. s. d. s. d. 375 d. s. d., d. d. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. s. id. s. d., s. d. s. d., s. s. 376 "Sir,—Below I have much pleasure in forwarding my present price list for Admiralty pattern anchors, made in exact conformity with the Admiralty regulations, specifications, proofs, finish, &c, identically the same as now required for the Royal Navy. I have lately completed, under official inspection of an officer from Woolwich Dockyard, a contract for Admiralty plan anchors of considerable extent for the Ottoman Government. Chain makers and anchor smiths are a migratory class working for all makers alike who have work for them to do, and many in my employ at this moment have for years previously been employed at the works of the Admiralty contractors. The supply of Admiralty plan anchors for the Royal navy has been for near a quarter of a century notoriously an exclusive monopoly in the hands of one favoured firm (Messrs. Brown, Lennox and Co.), who have also the sole supply of chain cables for the navy. How this is, or why, has always been a most mysterious affair to myself and the whole trade." s. "If for no other, to make a comparison between the cost of a ship built in one of Her Majesty's dockyards and the price at which one can be purchased, and to make a comparison also between the quality of those two ships." 377 378 Wasp, Sharpshooter, s. d. s. d. 379 s s 380 381
 MR. SEELY  said, he had not his figures with him, and he could not refer to them, but if his hon. Friend (Mr. Childers) would do him the favour, as he did on a former occasion, of meeting him at Somerset House, he would go into the question with him, and he would venture to affirm that in less than half an hour his hon. Friend would admit that he was right. The difference in price between ingot lead and pipe lead in the market was 3 d. s. d. s. d. s. d., d. s. d. s. d. d.,
 MR. SEELY  said, he repeated his challenge to meet the hon. Gentleman at Somerset House, and if he did not make good his statement about the lead he would apologise to the House. With regard to the
 397
 MR. EDWARD POTTER  said, that a number of gentlemen had purchased this collection in 1856. The Government of that day refused to have it, and as there was to be an exhibition of art treasures at Manchester in 1857 the executive Committee, of whom be was one, applied for the loan of the Soulage collection, but the owners of it declined to lend it. They then wished the city of Manchester to buy it for a public museum. Mr. Cole, however, offered to purchase it, and it ultimately went to South Kensington. He believed that the purchase was a good one, and he had no wish to say anything whatever upon that subject. But he was very anxious for a statement of this account. He could not understand why a simple statement of the account could not be put at the end of it. Mr. H. A. BRUCE said the account was not yet made out.] He thought that the House was entitled to the statement asked for.
 MR. WARNER  said, he wished to remind the House of the exhibition which had taken place of the Soulage collection at Marlborough House in 1857, when there was an affectation of consulting Parliament, and tickets were sent to hon. Members with a view to encourage its purchase by the nation, It was, indeed, a most wretched display. The greater part of the collection consisted of old locks, in which there was neither art nor mechanical skill. He had never heard till to-night that it had been purchased, and he hoped the information sought would be granted.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury when the removal of the Irish Records to the new building in Dublin will take place, and what steps have been taken to assimilate that establishment to the one existing in England.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he seconded the Amendment. Nothing was more destructive to salmon than eels, and therefore the more eels were caught the better would it be for the preservation of the salmon in those places.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he moved its omission, on the ground that it involved a proposition contrary to the first principles of English law. The clause appeared to be founded upon the supposition that every owner of a salmon fishery was a criminal, for it gave the conservator or water bailiff power, after making oath before a justice of the peace that be suspected acts in contravention of the Fishery Act, to enter, go over, and remain seven days upon, a gentleman's land without being; liable to a charge of trespass.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  moved the omission of the Clause, which he said provided that between the 1st of January and the 1st of July no eels were to be taken, the ground being that the boxes and gratings used for taking them were liable to catch salmon. Eels were a very important article of food in England; and in the south of England at all events were best in the spring and summer. There had been no evidence given upon this subject before the Committee, and therefore he objected to their legislating upon the matter at present.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether and when the Govern-
 368
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether the Report of the Armstrong and Whitworth Committee on the 12-pounder Guns has been referred to another Committee appointed by the War Office, and if so, for what purpose?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  seconded the Motion, and said this was one of those improvements which was originally designed by the Prince Consort, and if the Bill were not passed this Session, it must inevitably be carried during next year. Although the promoters of the Bill were not capitalists they were supported by a great financial company, which entered into agreement with them to carry out the measure in the event of the Bill passing. A clause might be inserted in the Bill compelling the company to build model lodging-houses for the accommodation of those whom they turned out of their homes.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  moved that this Bill should be re-committed to the former Committee, and that they should proceed therewith on Monday next. The object was to make a broad road in the vicinity of Belgrave Square and the Brompton Road, near the South Kensington Museum, the length being about half a mile, and the minimum width eighty feet. That would require about eighteen acres, but the Commissioners proposed that it should be 150 feet wide, and for that purpose thirty acres would be wanted. The Estimate for the road simply was £220,000, but the capital to be taken for the whole of the improvements was £1,000,000 sterling, with debenture power beyond. The accidents which occurred at the time of the Great Exhibition, consequent upon the great amount of traffic through the present narrow thoroughfares, made it only surprising that the road had not been earlier
 361 362
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that in consequence of the late period of the Session, he consented to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. SURTEES  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether it is intended to confer the rank of Lieutenant Colonel upon Regimental Paymasters of twenty years service, considering that by the promotion of Surgeons to that and higher ranks since the year 1858 Paymasters have lost that position of equality with the Surgeons in their Regiments which they had previously enjoyed; and, if not, for what reason?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Resolution was not an abstract proposition as to these appointments, but a distinct assertion that it was inexpedient to continue an existing practice, and therefore implied a censure on the present mode of appointment of naval officers. His hon. Friend (Mr. Seely) bad brought forward a mass of figures, and in doing so he made an extraordinary statement—namely, that his only wish was to see them to-morrow in the newspapers. How was it possible for his noble Friend (Lord Clarence Paget) or himself to refute figures some of which his hon. Friend would not even read, and
 395 396
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped he might he permitted to explain. He had been stopped in the middle of a sentence.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that as the hon. Member had challenged him as to certain matters, it was necessary that he should explain. The hon. Member had on a former occasion quoted certain figures from a Report, which were in black and white, which it was impossible for him to contradict, and he never had. What he did contradict——
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he must appeal to the House whether, having been challenged, and the cheers of the House requiring that he should answer it, he was to be stopped in the midddle of a sentence.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Are we to have it before the dissolution?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the Licence to be granted to the Convocation of Canterbury for the alteration of the Canon of Subscription, will be laid on the table?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to know if it were likely to be laid on the table before his Motion on the subject came on for discussion.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he has any objection to state if the Irish Government, before appointing persons to the office of Resident Physician to the District Lunatic Asylums, requires satisfactory proof that they have acquired a practical knowledge of the treatment of insanity; and whether candidates are examined as to their fitness to be entrusted with the care and treatment of the insane by the Inspectors of Asylums, and a Report made thereon to the Lord Lieutenant.
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I wish to make a few observations on this subject. I think the House will feel that the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) has given to it a most industrious examination, and has brought it before the House in a manner that was very clear, and that will prove, I hope, very useful in future. I further think the House will admit that the noble Lord (Lord Clarence Paget) has entirely failed to make an answer to the speech of my hon. Friend. For the most part he admitted nearly every charge brought against the Admiralty; he has not disputed one of the facts with regard to the extravagant cost of ships, or the still more extravagant cost of repairs. My hon. Friend has shown that a ship cost in one, two, and three years more for repairs than the ship would have cost when new, and the noble Lord did not object to that statement. [Lord CLARENCE PAGET: I do object to it.] The noble Lord did not object to
 386 387
 MR. BRIGHT : That is exactly what I stated the noble Lord said. I am not charging the noble Lord with neglecting his duty. It may be one of the difficulties of Government employment, and one that cannot be wholly removed or dealt with so easily as it could be disposed of by private firms. It certainly has not been the custom to get rid of such persons with equal promptitude. But that is a doctrine very pernicious to be stated in this House from the Treasury Bench and by the Secretary of the Admiralty, But I do not believe there are not men in the service of the Admiralty capable of undertaking the proper management of the dockyards. Surely he gave us a case in which a very valuable appointment had been made. The East India Company had 800 or 1,000 civilians in their employment, and yet the Government found it necessary to send over a gentleman from this country to look after the finances of India. It was an admission that out of a thousand civilian officers they had not one that appeared to understand the multiplication table or to be able to manage the finances of that great portion of our Empire. If it be true that there is no person in the employment of the Admiralty to do its work properly, it is the duty of the First Lord of the Admiralty and of the Board of Admiralty to take care that such a person should be found. Nothing is so monstrous as to say that while the shipbuilding establishments of private firms are as well managed as in other parts of the world the Government is not capable of finding competent men in their own Departments to do their work. If not, let them bring them from outside their Departments, so that the Government
 388 389
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I am very much surprised at the course taken by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, because he seems to me as if he were anxious to shut out any admonition on the part of the House that should enable him and the heads of his Department to control that Department in a more satisfactory manner. What can be more reasonable and more gentle than the proposition made by my hon. Friend (Mr. Seely)? It is not that you shall not have as superintendents of dockyards naval officers, but that you shall not have them of necessity. Therefore all the arguments of hon. Gentlemen opposite go for nothing. It is that, when you appoint a naval officer, he shall be a man who has a technical knowledge
 392
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was not in order. If it were permitted, he might go on making half-a-dozen more speeches.
 MR. SPEAKER  called the hon. Gentleman to order.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman might explain what required explanation in his own speech, hut he must not reply.
 MR. SPEAKER : The noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) has justly pointed out what the course of the House has been. It has negatived the Motion that I now leave the Chair, and it has declined to add the words which were just now the subject of discussion; but I apprehend the hon. Gentleman who has now risen (Mr. Hanbury Tracy) is going to supply the deficiency by suggesting some words to be added to the word "that" which may perhaps be more acceptable to the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : It has been stated to the House that there is at present no
 410
 MR. SPEAKER : The Motion has been withdrawn, and the word "That" remains.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, he had pointed out to the House that the state of the Question did not permit any hon. Gentleman to make a speech unless he was prepared to conclude with a Motion. Another rule of the House was that a Motion could not be made without notice; and in conformity with that rule the hon. Member for Beaumaris (Mr. W. O. Stanley) had stated that he would take another opportunity of addressing his Question to the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty. Under these circumstances the hon. Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn), who had given notice of his Motion, was rightly in possession of the House.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that he entirely approved that part of the Resolution which condemned the practice of changing the Superintendents of dockyards every five years. He could not see any reason for such a course, except to increase the patronage of the Admiralty. As to the Superintendents themselves, in his opinion the best man to be at the head of a dockyard was not a gentleman who possessed merely a technical knowledge of one branch of the work which was performed there, but a good man of business and practical knowledge, who should exercise control over the heads of departments, and see
 400
 MR. LOCKE  said, he had been reminded by some remarks which had fallen in the course of the debate, of a lady's maid, who, having gone to the British Museum to enjoy herself for the day, was asked upon her return what she had seen, and she replied that she had seen a number of marble statues which appeared to her to be a representation of a railway accident. He did not mean to say that hon. Gentlemen looked at things in the same light. But it was difficult to know how people would regard certain things. What might appear only mutilated bodies and trumpery to one, to another might be works of art. He remembered several years ago his hon. Friend the Member for Stirlingshire (Mr. Blackburn) and himself sat upon a Committee before which Mr. Cole was examined, and the great object of his hon. Friend seemed to be to learn from Mr. Cole whether the Kensington Museum had been the means of bringing out anything new. The great struggle of Mr. Cole was to show that it had, but, when pressed, he was obliged to admit that they had only produced "a combination." Since then many new things had been done. The working classes, studying probably some of what hon. Members had called wretched old rubbish, had, in many instances, struck out something beautiful for themselves. Whatever it might have done some years back, it was quite evident that original designs were now being introduced through the influence of the collection at Kensington; and, therefore, he thought that those seventy gentlemen who had combined together to purchase this collection had done the State some service, and that they were subsequently quite justified in getting the Government to make the purchase instead of themselves.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that it was at all times undesirable, except in very strong cases, to encourage appeals to the House from the decision of Committees, but that was more particularly the case at a late period of the Session, with respect to a Bill which was strongly opposed, and when the Committee was unanimous.
 MR. DILLWYN  again rose to speak—
 MR. DILLWYN  said, he had to call the attention of the House to the purchase
 411 412
 MR. DILLWYN  rose to address the House on the subject of his Motion—
 MR. DAWSON DAMER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, to prevent accidents from ownerless dogs in the Metropolis and its environs (four persons having been yesterday bitten by such dogs), he does not think it advisable to bring in a Bill for the destruction by the police, by strychnine or other means, of all dogs going about without collars and the addresses of their owners thereon?
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, he thought the matter ought to have been brought before Parliament in the first instance. The collection was a paltry one. The Government seemed to have adopted a system of spending the public money for those things which did not lead to any practical use. They were all agreed that the expenses of the collection at Kensington were increasing every year, and nobody could enter the Museum there without seeing the absurd waste of money there was upon bits of pavement of antiquated pattern and little broken stones. Those who represented people who paid for such collections without seeing them had a right to complain.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, it appeared, after all, that it was Government money which the gentlemen of whom the noble Lord had spoken had expended on the collection, and not their own. How was it that the gentlemen who purchased the collection did not present it to the Museum?
 MR. DALGLISH  said, that he did not think that this Motion had anything to do with the total exclusion of qualified officers of the navy from the superintendance of the dockyards. All they asked was that qualified Superintendents should be appointed, whether officers of the navy or not. There was a prevailing impression throughout the country that the dockyards were not managed with that consideration for economy which was desirable. It was, therefore, most important that Superintendents of dockyards should be men who knew something of accounts, and were qualified to attend to the management of large concerns. As sailors, the present naval Superintendents might be efficient, they might have distinguished themselves in fighting their ships, but, after spending many years of their lives at sea, they were not fit to manage large manufacturing establishments. He hoped, therefore, that the House would agree to accept the words proposed.
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he hoped that the clause would be retained, as, from his experience of the Irish Salmon Fishery Act, he believed that it would be exceedingly useful in preventing abuse, and that
 365
 SIR EDWARD DERING  rose to order. He was sorry to interrupt the hon. Gentleman, but as he stood before him on the paper, and had given notice of his intention to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty to explain the grounds of his statement relative to the dockyard at Sheerness, he would place himself in order by moving after the word "That" to add "it is desirable that the Secretary to the Admiralty should explain the grounds of his statement, &c."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that by the Metropolitan Police Act constables were authorized to destroy all dogs that were suspected to be in a rabid state, and the owners of dogs which were known to be dangerous were liable to penalties for allowing them to be at large. Whether any other measures ought to be adopted to prevent evil arising from the number of dogs in the streets he was not at that moment prepared to say. It might be desirable that dogs at large in the streets
 366
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not say.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, it would take some time to make it out. He could not, therefore, say the exact day.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he rose to ask, Whether the Report of the Armstrong Gun Commission will be laid on the Table before the end of the Session.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, in reply, that full and ample inquiry was always made as to the efficiency of the medical men appointed to Lunatic Asylums. He might mention that on a recent occasion the former Resident Physician of the Waterford Asylum was appointed to the Asylum at Castlebar, and the vacancy thus created had been filled, or was about to be filled, by the appointment of Dr. M'Kay, a gentleman whom the hon. Member himself bad very strongly recommended. The Inspectors of Lunatic Asylums always endeavoured to obtain accurate information as to the qualifications of future Resident Physicians before the appointments were made by the Government.
 SIR WILLIAM FRASER  said, that when he had called attention to the subject of the Order of the Bath upon a former occasion, the noble Lord had conferred a boon upon the gallant officers admitted to the Order by remitting the fees of which formerly they had been mulcted. On this occasion he did not intend to animadvert upon any recent appointments, believing that it was the Royal Prerogative to confer the distinction as it pleased. The Order had always held a distinguished place in the annals of the kingdom. Originally, no doubt, it was a personal mark of honour from the Sovereign. Henry IV. at his Coronation gave a large number of
 404 405 406
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he must, as Chairman of the Committee, oppose the Motion. It was unfair that when a Committee unanimously rejected a Bill a Member of this House should come down and seek to get it re-committed. He denied that the Committee had stopped the case. They had simply intimated that witnesses should not be called to prove again and again the same point. The Committee did not think that sufficient evidence had been adduced to justify the interference with property which would be involved. The Committee objected to granting forty-five acres for the purpose of making an ornamented street which only required fifteen acres. This Bill was one of the weakest and worst supported that had ever come under his notice. In the case of the Hyde Park Estate Gate Bill, that came from the House of Lords and was sanctioned by the Committee. The Committee were the best judges of the expediency of passing such a Bill. It was a positive fact that the opponents of the measure could not find out who were its promoters. The total capital of the company was to be £1,000,000, and no proof had been adduced that they would be able to raise that sum. The proposal would involve the removal of the houses of a large number of poor people, and would inflict upon them a considerable amount of inconvenience and hardship. Not an archi-
 363
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I quite agree with what has fallen from my hon. Friend who spoke last, that it is most desirable, especially in the distribution of honours, that the general feeling of the army and navy should go along with the grace of the Crown. At the same time it is in human nature that many people should not be disposed to agree precisely in the particular selection that may be made, and it often happens that a person who is perfectly fit for the honour he may have received, may by others be compared with friends of their own, and there may not be universal acquiescence as to the relative merits of the individuals. I can, however, assure my hon. Friend that those who advise the Crown in the distribution of honours both to the army and navy are most anxious to do full justice to those services according to the ordinances and regulations of the Order, and that those should be selected who are the best entitled to the distinction. I cannot agree with my hon. Friend (Mr. Hanbury Tracy) who made this Motion that it is desirable to consolidate the civil and military Orders of the Bath. They are entirely separate. They are given for distinction in careers altogether different. I think it would diminish greatly the importance which the army and navy attach to the distinction of the military Order of the Bath if civilians wore precisely the same decorations, and were in no way to be distinguished from the others. I think it of great importance to separate the two Orders. No jealousy whatever is felt by the army and navy with regard to conferring the civil Order on those who by civil services have served Her Majesty. Although no doubt the services performed by the army and navy are far more brilliant than those of any civilians, yet there is
 408 Gazette, 409
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I beg to move that this House do on Monday resolve itself into Committee of Supply.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, it seems to mo that the question is a very simple one, upon which the good sense of the House can hardly fail to come to a right conclusion. My hon. Friend (Mr. Seely) who made the Motion contends, and contends with some force—if all that is required is to construct a wooden frame that shall float and be a good ship to go through the water—that a civilian may be as fit, and possibly a more fit person, to superintend a dockyard than a naval officer. But the business of the Royal dockyards is to construct, not simply vessels to go through the water, but vessels adapted to the purposes of war; and I think that my noble and hon. Friends (Lord Clarence Paget and Mr. Childers) have shown conclusively that none but a naval officer, who knows what a ship of war ought to be and is conversant with all those details which adapt her to the purposes of war, can properly superintend the construction of vessels intended to servo those purposes; and, therefore, that if you were to exclude naval officers from the superintendence of the dockyards, you would be doing a great injury to the public service. The Resolution as it stands seems to me not only to affirm that which I think is erroneous in reason, but to pass a censure which is not deserved, because it says that the practice of appointing naval officers who are unfit for the offices to which they are appointed ought to cease. My hon. Friend ought to show that such a practice exists. We deny that it does. We say that the naval officers who have been appointed to the superintendence of dockyards, and those who are now filling such offices, have been and are perfectly competent to perform the
 399
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, my hon. Friend said, I imagined that on some occasions I had given him his quietus. Now, I should be very sorry to give him his quietus, for I am sure the House will agree with me that the annual exhibition of my hon. Friend is very amusing and highly diverting, and therefore I should be sorry to give him his quietus, and so prevent him from affording us the treat we are now enjoying. The arguments which my hon. friend has used are those which he has often repeated; and the arguments which I would suggest can only be those which I have often repeated. It is often said—my hon. Friend has often said it—that nothing new can be urged against the ballot. Truth is not new, and nothing is stronger than truth; and therefore if I were called upon to say something new against the ballot, I could only use weaker arguments than those which I used before. My objections to the ballot may
 426 427
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that a certain number of Endowed Schools had sent in the required information. That information had been tabulated and arranged, and he hoped the result would be laid upon the table before the end of the Session.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, the House would recollect that at the conclusion of the Crimean war a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into the sanitary state of the Army. The result was that several sub-Committees were subsequently appointed to consider and report upon the best mode of carrying out several of the subjects which had been reported upon by the Royal Commission. Dr. Sutherland, who had been a member of the Royal Commission, was appointed to serve on four of these sub-Committees, and he still continued to serve on one, and the most important of them—that originally called the Barrack and Hospital Committee, and now called the Army Sanitary Committee. The duties of that Committee were to consider and report upon all questions relating to sanitary improvements in existing barracks and hospitals, and the most healthy form of construction for new buildings. Dr. Sutherland's great experience and knowledge in such matters enabled him to render services upon the Committee more valuable probably than those of any other gentleman who could be found. As to the rate of remuneration, it was fixed by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntington (General Peel) at £3 3 s. 442
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was unable to answer the question of the hon. and gallant Member, whether there was no officer of the army who was qualified to discharge the duties performed by Dr. Sutherland? It was the opinion of the present Secretary of State, and it had been the opinion of two or three of his predecessors, that these duties were better performed by Dr. Sutherland than they could be by any other person. He was unable to answer the question relative to Dr. Sutherland's superannuation; but should rather imagine that, under the circumstances, he was not qualified to receive superannuation.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the sum of £7,703 4 s. d, & Will. 443 s. d. s., Vict.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the Act 26 &c 27  Vict, Will. Geo.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,  in reply, said it would be impossible to proceed with the Bill during the present Session. He was anxious to give effect to the engagements which he had entered into on the subject last year, but the difficulties experienced with regard to the working
 446
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has received any Report with regard to the Inquiry into the Land Tenure in Oude, which was now, he understood, approaching its conclusion; and, if so, whether he would state the substance of such Report, and whether the result of that Inquiry went to confirm the Talookdars in all important cases in their holdings?
 MR. HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he will lay upon the table of the House a Copy of the Treaty recently contracted with the German Zollverein, and of the Tariff connected therewith?
 LORD STANLEY  said, in reply, that the Patent Law Commission appointed three years ago was confined as regarded the scope of its inquiry. It was not a Commission to inquire into the principle upon which the Patent Laws were founded, but simply into the working of the existing laws, and to suggest any amendments which might be made in the working of those laws. The Report of that Commission was before the House, and, as the House was aware, they had suggested many amendments in detail. But he was bound to say that having had the subject under consideration now for nearly three years, having heard a great variety of evidence upon it, and being compelled to consider it in all its bearings, the effect of that inquiry on his mind had been to raise a very serious doubt as to the utility of Patent Laws at all. He was not the only Member of the Commission upon whom that effect had been produced. His hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns), who was not now present, had authorized him to say that in that expression of opinion he entirely concurred, and he might say the same for the hon. Member for Bradford. [Mr. W. E. FORSTER: Hear, hear!] That being the case he should feel some difficulty in proposing to the House, either in the present or any future Session, those amendments of detail which had been embodied in the Report of the Commission. The preliminary question in his opinion for the House to try was this, whether they meant to have a Patent Law at all. If the House came to a decision that they intended to retain the Patent Law, then he should confidently recommend the amendments which the Commission had proposed as better qualified than any others in their opinion to meet the inevitable inconvenience which arises from the continuance of the law. But the House ought first to have an opportunity fairly and deliberately of deciding upon that larger question which had not been submitted to the Patent Law Commission—namely, whether it was expedient that Patents for inventions should continue to be a part of the law.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he was prepared to take into consideration the great disadvantages to the harmonious co-operation of military authority and Constitutional Government which arose under present circumstances from the absence of the Secretary for War from the House of Commons? Earl Russell had pointed out that the Secretary for War ought to possess a seat in the House of Commons and should be a person of vigorous character. That principle was a sound one, and when it was acted on and Mr. Sidney Herbert and Sir Corne-wall Lewis filled the office the business of the Department was satisfactorily conducted. But at present he did not think that the proper constitutional check existed upon the War Office. The noble Earl who was now Secretary for War bad been an ultra-Liberal in military matters, and on several occasions he had supported Motions which, with his present views, the First Lord of the Treasury would probably regard as almost revolutionary. In 1855 the noble Earl, then Lord Goderich, proposed that promotion should take place from the ranks to a much greater degree than had ever been thought desirable by this House. That Motion was negatived by a considerable majority, of which the noble Lord at the head of the Government was one. In 1856 Earl De Grey supported the Motion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Sir De Lacy Evans) to abolish the system of purchase in the army. Again, in 1858, he acted as teller for a Motion to place the Commander-in-Chief more completely under the responsible direction of the Secretary for War than he now was; and Earl Russell and the present Judge Advocate General supported the same Motion. Was the appointment of Earl De Grey in accordance with what was understood to be the view of the noble Viscount—namely, that the Secretary for War should have very little control over the Horse Guards, which was to he paramount in all military matters? No doubt there was a difficulty in the case, for on the one hand the authority of this House ought to be paramount. Every question of national importance was settled there. Then, on the other side, there was the prerogative of the Crown, which was nothing more than a remnant of that absolute
 451 452 453 "That in the opinion of this House it would be convenient, under present circumstances, that the Secretary of State for War should be a Member of the House of Commons."
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I do not mean to follow the hon. Gentleman through the case of Colonel Dawkins, which has been already sufficiently disposed of, but I shall confine my observations to the Motion which he has made and to that part of his statement which bears upon that Motion. There can be no question that that general principle of human nature, the love of power, affects the Members of this House as much as the rest of the community, and I can quite understand that the hon. Gentleman and others would like to have to exercise that power over every Chief of every Department of the Government sitting in this House. No doubt that might on many occasions be very convenient and satisfactory, but the constitution of the English Government does not admit of it. It is impossible to concentrate all the Heads of Departments in the House of Commons. Some of them must be in the other House, and therefore it must depend in every case upon the particular circumstances which govern the distribution of offices to particular individuals which Heads of Departments should have seats in this House, and which should have seats in the other House. There are certain Members of the Government who must be in this House—for example, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, There is one Member of
 454 455 456 457
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he wished to say one word in explanation of the reason why the Government could not grant, as an unopposed return, a Motion which the hon. Member had put down for that evening. The hon. Member asked for the names of all those officers who had been removed or placed on half-pay without a fair trial. It would be extremely invidious to give such a return. There was no reason why officers removed or placed on half-pay should have that punishment aggravated by the fact of publicity. Although, as he had before stated, the cases in which officers had been actually removed and placed on half-pay were very rare, cases had occurred much more frequently in which the officer, rather than be exposed to any steps of the kind, thought it right to make a formal application to be placed on half-pay. It would be very unjust to officers that their names should be given, yet in both cases the ground of interference was the same. His noble Friend at the head of the Government had so completely explained the meaning of the answer which he gave the other night as to the responsibility of the Department that he did not feel it necessary to add anything further upon that subject.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that what his Motion asked for was the names of officers whose retirement had been compulsory.
 COLONEL DUNNE  who had given Notice to call attention to the state of the Ancient Records of Ireland, and to move—
 458 "That it is the opinion of this House that measures should be taken for their publication as has been for the publication of the Reocrds of England and Scotland," a 459
 MR. PEEL  said, that it was not necessary to re-open the controversy with respect to Mr. Morrin. He had been selected by the Treasury, on the recommendation of the Master of the Rolls, to edit and publish the Calendar of the Patent Rolls of the Chancery in Ireland. He published three volumes, which, with the preface, were severely criticized in a certain pamphlet. In fulfilment of a pledge made in that House, the Treasury sent the Rev. Duffus Hardy and Mr. Brewer to examine the work of Mr. Morrin and compare it with the original records of the Calendar. Their report, on the whole, was favourable to Mr. Morrin, and the Government gave their sanction to the completion of the work. After the manner, however, in which the work had been handled, Mr. Morrin thought it better not to proceed with it, and since then no steps had been taken for the completion of the Calendar of the Rolls of Chancery in Ire-laud. The Rolls of James I. had not been calendared by Mr. Morrin, but he believed that work had been already done, and all that was required was that these rolls should be printed uniformly with Mr. Morrill's work. The grants made by Parliament in previous years were intended to apply to Ireland as well as to other parts of the kingdom, and he knew that the Master of the Rolls had secured the publication of important papers illustrative of the history of Ireland. He thought that Irish members had every reason to be satisfied with the measures taken by the Government for the preservation and publication of Irish records. The Estimates of the present year abounded in items of this kind. The sum of £8,000 had been expended upon a commission for transcribing and translating the ancient Celtic laws, called the Brehon laws, and all that remained was to pass the work through the press. For that purpose the Estimates contained an item of £500, and a further provisipn for printing was contained in the stationery vote. There had also been this year an increase of the grant to the Royal Irish Society, specially to enable them to purchase any Celtic manuscripts, and to make copies of any that might be found, either in private collections in this country
 461
 MR. WHITE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury whether the Government had come to any decision on the question of a weekly mail to India, leaving on Friday. Such a mail would be of great importance to those engaged in the India and China trades.
 MR. GILPIN  said, he hoped that the House would not be led into a discussion on this question in the absence of the representatives of the rival ports.
 MR. PEEL  said, that as he had been prevented by a count out from answering some remarks made by the hon. Member for the City of Loudon on the memorial presented to the Treasury praying that the despatch of mails to India, instead of being on a fixed day of the month, should be on a fixed day in the week, as was the case with the Cunard mails to North America, he wished to say that the Postmaster General was quite as sensible of the value of such a change as any one could be. The question, however, was one of expense. It must be remembered that the mail service to India did not stand alone, but was connected with the mail service to China and Australia, and it would be impossible to make alterations in one service without making them in the others. The scheme of the mail service was this:—The Indian mails went out four times in the month to Alexandria, both by the way of Falmouth and Southampton on this side of Egypt, and on the other side they went twice in the mouth from Egypt to Bombay, and the other twice to Ceylon, and thence to Calcutta and China. One of these two last mails went on to Australia. So that there were 48 departures in the year for India, 24 for China, and 12 for Australia. If, therefore, weekly departures were substituted for the present departures of four times a month, the mail service would be increased by one-twelfth—there would be 52 departures for India instead of 48, 26 for China, and 13 for Australia. The increase in the frequency of departure would, of course, increase the expense to a proportionate amount. The expense of the service, as hon. Members were aware, was very large indeed. The total expense amounted to about £390,000 a year; and of that £160,000 belonged to the Australian service, the loss upon which was divided between the Imperial Government and the Australian Colonies. The remainder — £230,000 — represented the gross cost of the service to India and China, and the net loss upon that was divided between the Indian and the Imperial Government, The proposed increase of service would entail a further expenditure of about £35,000 a year, and though that
 474 d. d. 1d. d. id., d. s. d. via 475 476
 MR. PEEL  said, that the payment to the Liverpool Mail Company was for the conveyance of mails between Jamaica and Honduras. For that service a sum of £8,000 was paid last year, but this company undertook to carry the mails for £2,250, and, moreover, to carry letters between this country and Jamaica at the charge for ship letters. The arrangement had been subject to certain conditions of contribution on the part of the Honduras Government, which conditions had not been complied with, and therefore the Government had given notice to the company to discontinue the arrangement. With respect to the convention with France, he had to state that the French Government only paid one shilling per ounce for letters to the West Indies, which was less than the charge for English letters; but the total
 478
 MR, PEEL  said, no such arrangement could be carried out without the concurrence of the Indian Government, and at present that Government had not been applied to.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, the reason why the Vote was proposed in the present form had been stated over and over again, and he was not disposed to revive the discussion. The hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) was aware that Mr. Churchward's contract had been fully considered and discussed, and that the House came to the conclusion that that gentleman had endeavoured to obtain a contract by corrupt means—not imputing to the Members of Lord Derby's Government who granted it corrupt motives. The House came to a determination that none of the money voted for the packet service should be paid to him, and therefore this Vote had since always been proposed in its present form.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he must express a hope that as the House had decided that these rights should not be sold the Commissioners would not allow people to steal them. The last time the question was discussed the right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that those rights were of no value, and that anybody ought to be allowed to run away with them. Now, the House were trustees on the part of the Crown, and if they did not like to convert the right into money they ought to keep other people from robbery. It appeared that because the Woods and Forests were stopped from selling, they became, to use a vulgar phrase, "awkward," and would not allow the people to enjoy the rights which they had hitherto exercised in these forests.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Committee would naturally expect from him some explanation in regard to this Vote. The
 485 486 487 488 489
 MR. PEEL  said, he agreed with those who thought that, the Committee not having reported, it would be inconvenient to go into the question of alleged neglect of duty in not preventing encroachments. He would only say that it had not been shown that the Commissioners of Woods were responsible for the course taken. They had acted as they were advised by the Law Advisers of the Crown, to whom
 483 484
 MR. COWPER  said, he had heard of no proposal to pull down Burlington House, and therefore the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir George Bowyer) was premature in his alarm. There was a proposal to build on the front of the courtyard, but that would leave Burlington House on one side of a quadrangle, and be the
 495
 MR. COWPER  said, that when the agreement had been made for the purchase of the site, the next step would be to bring before the House an estimate for whatever was to be erected upon that site. That would be the time to mention the plan. He would rather not give any pledge on these points, because the proper time to enter into the discussion of the plan was when the estimate was proposed for the building. At present the House was asked to decide whether the enlargement was to be at Trafalgar Square. If not, were they of opinion it should be at Burlington House? When that point was decided, then would come the estimate and the plan for the building to be erected there; and he had also stated that that plan would be made harmonious with the
 496
 MR. COWPER : It has been decided that there is to be an enlargement of the old building or the erection of a new one for the National Gallery, and as only two sites have ever been mentioned, I presume those who do not wish to have it at Trafalgar Square are for Burlington House. If the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cox) is for no enlargement of the old, and for no new building at all, he will vote against any grant whatever.
 MR, TITE  said, that what was wanted was for the House to have the plan of the building first and the site could be chosen afterwards. He meant that the two things should go together. They might take steps to obtain the site, but at the same time pains should be taken to instruct the House as to the sort of building to be placed upon it. When compulsory powers were applied for to enable the Government to obtain the land behind the National Gallery, the architect should be prepared with designs of the building to be erected upon the site. He thought they had waited long enough for the building, and that there was no occasion to wait ten years more. If £20,000 would faciliate in any manner the proceedings of the Government in this important work he should support the vote.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was willing to vote the £20,000, but the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) had used language in his closing speech which seemed to commit the House to some sort of scheme which he had in his head as to the future building. That was not fair to the House. The right hon. Gentleman had also said that when the Estimates were laid on the table there would be plans which would present the old building in a shape in which hon. Members would not know it. He did not want the House to be pledged to any transmogrification of that kind. There could be no harm in voting this £20,000, if it was laid out in land, which would be always worth its money; but he strongly protested against being committed to any cut and dried scheme of the right hon. Gentleman.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was at a loss to understand what object the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) could have in objecting to a clause which he himself acknowledged afforded
 504 505
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he had voted for the Bill on a former evening, but hoped now the right hon. Baronet would be content to pass it for one year.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he had waited with the greatest anxiety to hear what grounds the Chief Secretary for Ireland would allege in defence of a Bill which he could not help denominating a very exceptional and unconstitutional one, and the only reason which he had heard him assign for adopting this measure was that it had been in force before, and, therefore, it might as well be continued. He had paid some attention to the judicial statistics of Ireland, and they certainly afforded no justification for passing such a Bill as this. When a district was proclaimed by the Lord Lieutenant, any man who had in his possession any part of a gun or an ounce of powder was liable to twelve months' imprisonment; any body who met another body upon the road with such a thing
 511
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the words of the right hon. Baronet, as he understood them, and as they were reported in  The Times, "Had been in communication with his noble Friend the Member for the county of Mayo upon the subject of the proclamation, which had been in force since 1861, and he intended to inform the Lord Lieutenant that in the opinion of the gentlemen of that county there was no reason why it should not be revoked."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to remind the House that it was already nearly a quarter to two o'clock, and that they had to meet again at twelve o'clock.
 MR. TREFUSIS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Contracts for the maintenance and repair of Highways are liable to the Stamp Duty of one pound fifteen shillings; and, if so, whether, considering the heavy additional expense thereby entailed upon Highway Boards, he will consider the advisability of reducing the amount of Duty payable upon such Contracts?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he regretted the defeat of last year, but he accepted that defeat; and all he wanted to do now was to stop this jobbing, patchwork system. What the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) proposed was simply to continue the patchwork. ["No no!"] He (Lord Elcho) said "Yes, yes !"He was about to buy a piece of land behind the National Gallery to erect a building "in harmony with the existing building," and then at some other time—the hon, Member (Mr. Ayrton) said five or ten years—do something else with the present building. He was quite willing to vote the money now asked for on the understanding that the Government would undertake next Session to lay on the table of the House a large and comprehensive scheme for a new Gallery which should be worthy of the nation.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he desired that there should be a clear understanding as to what it was proposed to do. Was it proposed to lay before Parliament next Session a plan or plans for the reconstruction of the old National Gallery?
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had given notice of a Resolution on the subject which he did not propose at present to move, but which he would read, since it expressed the opinion he held on this subject—
 "That the present National Gallery, owing to its architectural defects, and to its not being fireproof, cannot be considered a fitting receptacle
 490 491
 LORD ELCHO  desired to state a fact which had come under his knowledge with reference to the inclosure of Wimbledon Common. The Crown had set up rights over this manor. It would be remembered by the House that a Bill upon this subject to define the rights was introduced early in the Session, and that Earl Spencer was much abused for interfering, as was thought by many, with the public rights. The Bill was to inclose the common, reserving to the public a certain space. It was deemed advisable to withdraw that Bill, but since that time Earl Spencer had been offered for the rights, the existence of which some people altogether denied, the sum of £100,000. That placed the public in an awkward position, because, if Earl Spencer accepted an offer, which certainly was a very tempting one, the public would have to contend with a large and powerful company. Earl Spencer knew that he was possessed of extensive rights, and that life was uncertain. He wanted, therefore, at once to secure to the public the enjoyment of a large open space, reserving to himself only certain rights.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that it was not a question of evidence but of fact, which had come out since the sitting of the Committee. He simply desired to show that a large and tempting offer had been made for rights which were supposed not to be in existence. He believed if such an offer were made to trustees they would be bound to accept it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the hon. Member had put forward the strongest arguments that could be used in favour of the dockyard at Sheerness. When on a former occasion he had alluded to the contingent probability that at some future time the dockyard at Sheerness would be closed he did not intend to convey the idea that there was any immediate intention of closing the yard. It was true that the dockyard Committee had inserted Deptford, Pembroke, and Woolwich as the dockyards recommended to be closed, and said nothing about Sheerness. It must, however, be borne in mind that the Admiralty, on taking the matter into their serious consideration, had felt that there were extremely powerful reasons against closing Pembroke Dockyard; and, indeed, so far from closing it they had, with the consent of the House of Commons, made there a new dockyard, so to speak, in which to construct iron ships. As to Deptford, also, after giving the recommendation of the Committee full consideration, the Admiralty thought that it would be a very unwise thing to close Deptford yard at the present time. They had, therefore, decided not to close either Pembroke or Deptford Dockyards; but the Admiralty thought it right to consider whether any other of the dockyards should be closed. When the establishment at Chatham should be really completed it would be the greatest establishment of the kind in the world. It was under these circumstances that he had the other night alluded to Sheerness, in answer to a question; not that he had the slightest idea of closing Sheerness Dockyard at the present time; but eventually, when Chatham should be completed, it would be for the Parliament of that day to consider whether Sheerness Dockyard should not he suppressed. Sheerness had undoubtedly deep water, but it was very confined, the dockyard being so small that it was unfit for the large men-of-war of the present day. The
 471
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to ask why such an important fact had not been published.
 MR. O'REILLY  who had given Notice to call attention to the Papers laid on the table of the House relative to the case of Patrick Donohue, county of Longford, and to move for Copy of any Correspondence on the subject between the Lord Chancellor of Ireland or Lord Lieutenant and the magistrates who acted in the case, said, that the facts were that the house of a gentleman of the name of Thompson had been burnt down on the night of the 20th of June, 1864. On the following day he had some reason to suspect a certain labourer of the name of Donohue had been concerned in the affair, and accordingly, on the 21st of June, Donohue was arrested without a warrant, and another man who was wanted as a witness was also arrested without a warrant. On the 22nd of June, four magistrates assembled in the ordinary sessions house, although it was not the regular petty sessions day, for the purpose of investigating the charge. No summons to attend the meeting was issued to the other magistrates, and the hearing took place with closed doors. In fact, it was not an open court of justice. The accused person was not allowed to call witnesses, or to give
 468
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that there was no such statement as this in the papers.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that under this Bill the Act would remain in force during the whole of] 866 and until the end of the Session of 1867—that was, till August, 1867. The proposal which would satisfy everyone was that it should be renewed only till the end of 1866.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought this discussion wholly unnecessary; it appeared to be carried on chiefly by Gentlemen who last year wished to remove the National Gallery from its present site, and being then defeated were now striving to hinder anything being done to improve the present building. The Government only asked now for the means to purchase land adjacent to the Trafalgar Square site, and expressed no opinion as to the mode in which it should be used, whether for a new design or for a modification of the present one. That was left a purely open question. He thought it fair to give the Government a Vote on Account, and enable them to get the land by agreement, if possible. The noble Lord (Lord Elcho) said that the first thing must be the destruction of the present Gallery, and that then you must run about to find a place for the pictures. But what would be done would no doubt be first to erect all the rest of the quadrangle except the front, and lastly to pull down the Gallery which was now being used. At present, however, there was no plan before the House, so that there was no occasion to discuss these difficulties, Why the noble
 497
 MR. AYRTON  said, that when this Vote was last under the consideration of the House attention was called to the proceedings of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests in respect to the management of Epping Forest, He regretted that the Committee on open spaces, by whom the subject was being considered, had not yet been able to make their Report, It would be unfortunate to discuss a matter of such gravity and importance in anticipation of that Report. It would, therefore, be better to allow the Vote to pass, and to abstain from what must necessarily be a partial and imperfect consideration of the subject.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, it was impossible to decide such a point until the plan was before the House. The first thing was to know what the Government meant to erect.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, it would only take twenty minutes to go through the Bill.
 MR. LAYARD  replied that he was not responsible for the title which the commander of the vessel might have put after Lord Amberley's name, but Lord Amberley was acting at the time as Mr. Elliot's private secretary, and in that capacity he was attached to the Mission. It was a common practice for a Minister to appoint his own private secretary. They formed part of the Minister's suite. It was an entirely exceptional thing that Lord Amber-ley's name should be mentioned at all in the Return. On a former occasion he had pointed out that in the same Estimate many other journeys by Ministers and their suites were mentioned, and no names of the persons composing their suite were given as in this instance. That was the ordinary practice. There was altogether a wrong impression prevailing with regard to this Return. It was a simple matter. When vessels of war were employed to convey Her Majesty's diplomatic servants and their suites from one place to another, of course no passage-money was paid, but a small allowance was made to the commander of the vessel for table money if the journey was sanctioned by the Foreign Office. In this case as in all similar cases where such charges were in question the Admiralty wrote to the Foreign Office to know whether they sanctioned the journey, and on receiving an affirmative answer this allowance was granted,
 MR. LAYARD,  in reply, said, the treaty had not yet been ratified, but he believed the ratifications would be exchanged in the course of a very few days. There was no tariff annexed to the treaty.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that it was not his intention to proceed further with the Bill during the present Session, but he intended to re-introduce it the next Session. He now moved that the Order for the Second Reading be discharged.
 MR. ADDERLEY  moved the insertion of words limiting the grant of these pensions out of the British Treasury to cases in which the salaries were a charge on the British Treasury. It was an act of absolute folly to charge the Imperial Revenue with pensions in cases where the salaries were payable by the colonies. The Bill was a continuation of the old vicious system by which the interests of the Crown and of the colonies were regarded as being separate.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask what rule had been adopted with regard to these pensions, and upon what principle the claims of Sir Francis Head had been rejected.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that up to the present time he had not received any official Report. The inquiry was being conducted by several officials, and their Reports would in the first place be addressed to the Chief Commissioner. They would then go to the Government of India, and of course he (Sir Charles Wood) would not receive complete information until the Reports were transmitted to him. But he had received information of what was going on, and it went entirely to confirm the statement of the noble Lord. The general tendency of the Reports was to the effect that though it was perfectly true that by common custom the occupiers had not been disturbed by the landowners, whether Talookdars or Zemindars, as long as the rent was paid, yet there were but very few cases in which they had been able to establish any right to the land amounting to a legal right. They had themselves shown the greatest indifference on the subject. The result, therefore, on the whole was to confirm the possession of the Talookdars in the estates which they held, and, practically, to do away with anything like legal right on the part of the occupying tenants to the land which they occupied.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, it was not his intention to persevere with the Bill this Session and he should therefore move that the Order for the Second Reading be read and discharged.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that he was unable to answer the question, as no information had arrived from India on the subject of the second issue of the Dhar Prize Money; and he was unable to even say whether the amount of the fund would admit of a second distribution.
 MR. CARDWELL,  in laying upon the table copies of the Official Correspondence which has taken place on this subject, said, these papers will be found to consist of a despatch from the Governor General of Canada, enclosing a Minute of his Executive Council recommending the appointment of four Members of that body to proceed to England to confer with Her Majesty's Government on four questions of importance — namely, the proposed Confederation of British North America, the Defence of Canada, the Reciprocity Treaty, and the North Western Territory. On the arrival of these gentlemen in England, the First Lord of the Admiralty, the Secretary for War, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and the Secretary to the Colonies, were appointed to confer with them on the part of Her Majesty's Government. Several conferences were held, and the result of these conferences was embodied in a despatch to the Governor General of Canada, which has been adopted by Her Majesty's Government, and by the deputation from Canada as a record of the views expressed. The papers are already
 440
 MR. CARDWELL  said, this Bill was based upon length of services, and the period of Sir Francis Head's service was extremely short. Last year he had given a pledge that the subject should be fully considered; so that, if they were unable to admit the claims of Sir Francis Head, the right hon. Gentleman opposite should have the opportunity of taking what course he felt inclined to take upon this Bill. Since then the case had been fully considered, and the Government thought it impossible to insert a clause providing for that particular case.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the objections taken to the Bill were the same as those which were made on the second reading, and they had therefore already been disposed of by the House.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that a charge of corruption had not been proved against Mr. Churchward; and, in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, he should divide the Committee against the Vote.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know why so extraordinary a course was adopted of excluding one particular person from all participation in the Vote. After listening patiently to the debate which took place three years ago upon the subject of Mr. Churchward's contract, he had been unable to understand why so extraordinary a course should be adopted. Upon what grounds was Mr. Churchward to be excluded Session after Session from payment for a contract duly entered into between himself and the Government? If some explanation were not given he should divide the House.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he was sure that the Government had acted under some misapprehension in this matter. He agreed that they ought not there to discuss a question of law; but he was also sure that when the hon. and learned gentleman (the Attorney General) had considered the terms of the statute of William IV. he would at once see that the Commissionership of Greenwich Hospital was not within that Act. He would state shortly the facts. When Sir Richard Bromley, after thirty-two years' service, was desirous of retiring from the office of Accountant General of the Navy, his services had been recorded in successive Minutes of the Admiralty and of the Treasury, and it was said that those services entitled him to the highest pension consistent with existing regulations whenever he should retire. He had performed many gratuitous services, and the Government had expressed a desire to reward him for them, and it was a question whether he should receive a considerable increase of salary; but instead of this course being acted on, he, at the suggestion of the Duke of Somerset, accepted the office of Commissioner of Greenwich Hospital. Sir Richard Bromley had accepted the office of Commissioner of Greenwich Hospital on the understanding that he was to receive £1,000 a year, or £285 more than he was legally entitled to as retiring Accountant General. On 1st April, 1863, when Sir
 506 "My Lords therefore feel that the case is eminently one to be dealt with under the 9th section of the Superannuation Act of 1859."
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he had intended to support the Motion. He complained that no encouragement was given to the study of Irish literature, and that no effort had been made by the Government to supply the places of the late Mr. O'Donovan and Mr. Eugene Curry, the most eminent Irish scholars which the country had produced. Now, whatever selection the Government should be pleased to make they ought to appoint men who could properly examine these documents and make a proper translation of them for publication. The system pursued in the government of Ireland would not be tolerated in England or Scotland. So far as the chief departments were concerned, the rule was that "no Irish need apply," and the Government thus put it out of their power to secure the services of gentlemen who, being acquainted with the country, would be able to advise them in every conjuncture. No other part of the country would submit to the system adopted in Ireland, and allow natives to be excluded from office. Englishman succeeded Englishman, and the only department at the head of which they found an Irishman was that of education. This was manifestly unfair, and no nation whose citizens were thus passed over and excluded from the management and administration of its affairs could be expected to be contented. They possessed the ablest arcæologist in the world in Ireland—he was the man most competent to perform the duties of calendaring and editing these records. If a new office were about to be created in regard to the Irish records, he trusted that, as an Irishman might be found who was highly competent to discharge the duties of the office, he would not be passed over.
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, What progress has been made in collecting and arranging the information required for the Return ordered in the last Session of Parliament, with reference to Endowed Grammar Schools; and when the Return may be expected to be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he begged to give notice that he would on a future occasion take the sense of the House on the policy of extending the English Church Establishment in India at the expense of the members of other religious communities.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, the right hon. Gentleman had not answered his question—whether the House would be consulted before an alteration was made in the rates of Indian postage.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he thought they could not overrate the importance, in a social, commercial, and poli-
 477 employœ's s., s. d.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that the nation now possessed a remarkably fine collection of pictures which was increasing in value daily, and last year the House decided that the site of the building for them should be Trafalgar Square. He was surprised, therefore, that the right hon. Gentleman should have allowed the Session to pass over without bringing in a Bill for compulsorily obtaining ground for the buildings which Parliament determined should be erected there. The arrangement proposed was different to what any railway company would have asked Parliament to grant them. Did the right hon. Gentleman mean to leave standing behind the National Gallery the baths and wash houses, which ought never to have been erected there, and which were most injurious to the national collection? He considered the right hon. Gentleman's plan very inadequate, but he would vote for it, because he looked upon
 494
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would explain why the clause had boon inserted, It was the principle of the Superannuation Act that an officer receiving superannuation and appointed to another office, should not draw more of his superannuation allowance than would make up the salary of his new office to his former salary. But it
 507
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he had an Amendment to propose in Clause 13, which he believed took precedence of the Amendment of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington). In 1862 Sir Richard Bromley, now one of the Commissioners of Greenwich Hospital, held the office of Accountant General of the Navy, with a salary of £1,000 a year, and an allowance of £300 a year for a house, making £1,300. He also held the important office of Auditor of Prize Accounts, with a salary of £300 a year, which brought his official income up to £1,600. His health having become somewhat impaired from the labours of his office in which he had conducted himself to the satisfaction of all who had been officially connected with him, in the early part of 1863 he accepted the office of Commissioner of Greenwich Hospital, at a salary of £600 a year, with allowances of different kinds, amounting to something more than £200 a year. On his thus vacating the office of Accountant General of the Navy he received a special retiring allowance of £1,000 a year, being about £300 a year more than he was strictly entitled to, and it was declared that the Commissioner ship of Greenwich Hospital must be treated as a public office within the meaning of the Act. His salary as Commissioner, with his superannuation allowance, amounted accordingly to £1,300 a year, and he still continued by leave of the First Lord of the Admiralty to enjoy the emolument of £300 a year as Auditor of Prize Accounts. Under this Bill it was proposed that the Commissionership should cease, and the effect would be, as the clause stood, that Sir Richard Bromley would continue to receive £1,600 a year so long as he held his office of auditor of Prize Accounts. That appeared to the Government to be a fair arrangement; but it had been stated that he was entitled to receive more— namely, £715 in respect of his former appointment of Accountant General, and £800 in respect of the Commissionership, or between £l,500 or £1,600 a year, besides his salary of £300 a year as Auditor of Prize Money. This idea was founded on a supposed illegality in the condition,
 500 "That if any Commissioner or any officer who is removed from office as aforesaid is at the commencement of this Act in receipt of any superannuation allowance in respect of any former employment in the civil service of the Crown, he shall be entitled to continue to receive, in addition to such annuity as aforesaid, the amount of superannuation allowance of which he is at the commencement of this Act in receipt, and no more."
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that it was sufficient to look into any map to see the advantage of Falmouth.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, he wished to express a hope that the Government would adopt the suggestion of having Falmouth or Plymouth as the port for the colonial and foreign mails instead of Southampton; as such an arrangement would be a gain of nearly three days in the postal communication with India to the whole of Scotland and the north of England.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he opposed the Motion. If it were really necessary at this late period of the Session to pass a measure on the subject it ought only to be a continuance Bill for a single year. Let a Bill for the registration of arms be separately introduced; and let them no longer be compelled, as they had been at the Tipperary assizes, to convict lads simply for having percussion caps or bullets in their pocket.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he thought it highly satisfactory that the Bill had been opposed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell), a resident proprietor in Tipperary, who would have been the first to support the Bill had there been any real necessity for it. When the Bill was brought in the Chief Secretary admitted the peaceable state of the country, and therefore the right hon. Baronet ought at least to make the concession suggested by the hon. Member for Clonmel.
 MR. BRADY  said, he opposed this Bill, as he had constantly done for years, believing that it degraded the people of Ireland. Originally this had been called a Crime
 509
 MR. HENNESSY  said, with respect to the correspondence on the subject of the passages made by Viscount Amberley in the Greek waters on board Her Majesty's ships  Liffey Phoebe,
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished to draw the attention of the House to this subject. It had transpired that the treaty had been already discussed in both the Prussian Chambers, and that though it had not been formally presented the ratification was now on its way. He had received from a traveller a copy, which be believed to be a true one, and it might not be uninteresting to call attention briefly to a few points in connection with it. The treaty might be described in a few words to be an engagement between Prussia and the Zollverein on the one hand, and Great Britain and her colonies on the other, to the effect that the two contract-
 462 "The two contracting parties engage not to prohibit the exportation of coal, and to levy no duty upon such exportation." 463 464 9d. 2s. 3d.; d. 5s. 6d. 465 d. d., dilettante
 MR. LANIGAN  said, he wished to inquire whether the right hon. Baronet would consent to withdraw the proclamation from the county of Tipperary, which he had stated to be so peaceable?
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the second issue of the Dhar Prize Money will take place; what is the cause of the delay of such issue; and what is the total amount now available for distribution?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he did not want to destroy the harmony of the evening; hut he should be extremely sorry if the Committee came to any vote which pledged Parliament to the erection of a new National Gallery "in harmony with the old one." It would be a dead failure, cost a great deal, and satisfy no one.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he entirely concurred in the opinion that if anything was to be done with the National Gallery it ought to be pulled down altogether. After his right hon. Friend's condemnation of the original entrance hall of that building, which was the only good thing about it, and his
 493
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the right hon. Baronet had given a most admirable description of the state of Ireland, and it was well that the fact should go forth to
 510
 MR. LOWE  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord the Chairman of the Patent Law Commission, What steps it is proposed to take with regard to the Report of that Commission?
 MR. TORRENS  said, that the hon. Member (Mr. Maguire) in the earlier part of the Session had made a statement that there was great disaffection in Ireland, and that being so, it was a sufficient justification of the Bill.
 MR. WALPOLE  replied, that the object of the Bishops' Trust Substitution Act was simply this: that when a diocese had been altered in which the former Bishop, by virtue of his office was trustee of a charity, then the trust was transferred to the Bishop of the new diocese in which the charity would be from the time when the alteration was made. This was to be done by the Charity Commissioners, except where a right of patronage or any other ecclesiastical matter was involved. Now, the first two questions of his hon. Friend did not relate to cases of ecclesiastical patronage or to anything of the kind, and, therefore, the consent of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners was not needed; for then the change was made by order of the Charity Commissioners, and the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had nothing to do with it. With regard to the third question—whether the Bishop of Oxford, as promoter of the enactment, and of himself when taking up the conduct of this measure, as Her Majesty's Secretary of State, were justified in the use of certain words in the preamble of the Statute? he had only to say, that he knew nothing of any statement made by the Bishop; but he believed that there were other cases besides those to which his hon. Friend had referred, and the word "frequently" would apply to such cases, as well as to the other two, and then the inference would be very different from that which the questor assumed.
 MR MILNER GIBSON  said, he was afraid that if his hon. Friend were to propose an export duty on coal he would find much greater difficulty than he imagined in getting the consent of Parliament to such a proposal. Years ago an export duty on coal was deliberately given up by Parliament as an impolitic tax, as a failure in point of revenue, and as an impost that pressed injuriously upon a great branch of industry. Coal was only won by human industry; and if the colliers were prevented from selling the produce of their industry in the best market by the imposition of an export duty you would be inflicting upon large bodies of persons a very great
 466 "The article would not in any way interfere with
 467 Hansard,
 MR. SCULLY  said, he believed there were only two archivists in Ireland. He was personally intimate with both of them, and he had asked them who there was to succeed them in the event of anything occurring to render a successor necessary? They both said they knew of no one but Mr. Stokes. But instead of appointing Mr. Stokes, the work of editing the Brehon laws was given to Professor Hard wick, who, like every Member in that House, he (Mr. Scully) included, was profoundly ignorant of Irish. If the publication of these old musty records were good for Scotland and England, as illustrating the
 460
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he believed there was some doubt as to the actual state of the law, but the practice had been to assume that these contracts were not liable to a stamp duty of thirty-five shillings. There was no great reason why they should be so liable, and if they were liable the liability arose entirely out of technical considerations. In order that they might be put upon a more favourable footing, he intended, on bringing up the Report of the Inland Revenue Bill, to move the insertion of a clause providing that the stamp duty should not exceed sixpence.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would look into the matter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would answer as clearly as he could the three questions of the right hon. Gentleman. The first related to the payment of £7,703 4 s. d. Geo. Will. Vict. 444 & Vict. Will. & Will.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was not prepared to enter into any condition.
 MR. COX  said, he wished to ask whether, if hon. Members voted now against the £20,000, it would be supposed they were voting in favour of the removal of the National Gallery to Burlington House?
 MR. COX  said, he believed that the best plan would be to allow the Vote to pass without discussion, but he still hoped that some supervision in the case of these in-closures would be exercised by the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests. By
 482
 MR. GREGORY  said, he had always contended that the pictures at Kensington, the drawings of the great masters at the British Museum, and the pictures in the National Portrait Gallery should be placed in the National Gallery, and he was happy to say that this principle had been conceded by the right hon, Gentlemen. For these pictures 2,200 linear feet would he necessary, hut in the present gallery there were only 1,500 feet. It was now promised that before anything was done a complete and comprehensive plan should be exhibited to the House; and he trusted that such would be the case. The piece of ground at present proposed to be taken would form part of what might afterwards be converted into a quadrangle by the purchase of the site of the barracks; but he believed that to the proposition to take the barracks there was some military objection which he could not understand. He hoped that his right hon. Friend would make it a  sine qua non de novo,
 MR. MUNDY  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Member for Cambridge University, Whether the consent of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, under their common seal, was previously obtained for the substitution of the Bishop of St. Asaph for the Bishop of Bangor, as President of the Hospital of Christ at Ruthin, in the county of Denbigh, as ordered by the Board of Charity Commission, on January 24th, 1860, pursuant to Section 2 of 21  & Vict. 445
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, that the question of substituting Plymouth or Falmouth for Southampton as the port for the India mails had been fully considered by the Postmaster General; but the noble Lord had been unable to see that such a change would be attended with advantage. Though there might by it at times be a saving of a few hours, as a rule there would be a loss of time. Southampton had great advantages. It had a double line of rail to London, and good dock accommodation for the steamers; while neither Plymouth nor Falmouth possessed either of those requisites. Special trains would not be run to and from there without danger. In addition, Southampton was within two hours of London by rail. Instead of there being a saving of time such as that spoken of by the hon. Member (Mr. Crum-Ewing), the probability was that a delay in the transmission of the mails would be, as a general rule, the result of such a change. Southampton had as good a through communication with the north both by broad and narrow gauge as any other port, and postal communication, therefore, to the north could be effected as rapidly from Southampton as from Plymouth or Falmouth.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he wished to draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that within his own knowledge in-closures had been made in Epping and other forests by the lords of the manors without a shadow of title, and that the Office of Woods and Forests when called on to resist these encroachments and to protect the public rights had neglected their duties.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he believed that Earl Spencer had sold one-half the common without any title at all.
 MR. ALDERMAN ROSE  said, he must rise to order. If the discussion upon the subject of Wimbledon Common were to be continued, he should have to refer to the evidence taken before the Committee. He should be sorry to have to go into the other side of the question.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, there was an increase in the Vote for the Post Office Packet Service, but he would suggest a mode of getting rid of it, and even occasioning a saving. There were 70,000 European troops in India. The whole were to be relieved in ten years, at the rate of 7,000 each year; making 14,000  in transitu 472 Himalaya,
 MR. TITE  said, he could not help fearing that the Government would find
 492
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, What course he proposed to take respecting the Forfeiture for Treason and Felony Bill?
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, To explain the grounds of his statement that the important Dockyard at Sheerness was among those destined eventually to be abandoned, no such recommendation having been made by the Dockyard Committee of 1864? He said it was not to be wondered at that the statement which had been made a few nights ago by the noble Lord had occasioned a good deal of surprise, because when last year the hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto) alluded specially to this subject, the noble Lord, in reply to the hon. Member, very candidly said he had no hopes of Sheerness being abandoned, as it was a station of great importance, especially for North Sea purposes. He further stated that it was a matter of consideration how far other dockyards should be abandoned; but no Amendment was moved in Committee specifying this particular dockyard. The noble Lord said there was not a single Member who was of opinion that Sheerness ought to be in the number of the dockyards that ought to be sold or abandoned. It should be remembered that Sheerness possessed some special advantages. At any time of the tide ships could be brought up close to the yard, and at low tide within a cable's length of the main entrance there was fifty feet of water; and at a trifling expense the largest ships in the navy might be docked in this harbour at low water. He (Sir Edward Dering) anticipated that the House would be of the opinion expressed by Sir James Graham in his place in that House, that any Government that should seriously entertain the idea of selling or abandoning so useful a harbour as Sheerness would be trifling with the best interests of the country. He could not sincerely believe that the noble Lord bad formed any very serious intention in this matter. He (Sir Edward Dering) main-
 470
 MR. F. PEEL  said, in reply, that the course which had been taken in these two cases was not unprecedented, nor any other than the usual course. The treasure was sent to the British Museum, and having been reported by the authorities there to be of no intrinsic value, was returned by the Treasury to the finders. There was no objection to this course on constitutional grounds, as it was authorized by the Civil List Act, In answer to the observation that was frequently made that the Treasury did not act with sufficient liberality to the finders of treasure, he might remark that the Crown's rights would be of very little value unless that course were pursued.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that this piecemeal mode of voting money away could never prove satisfactory. The present National Gallery was a building to be greatly reprobated. It was said to occupy the finest site in Europe, but it was one of the meanest and most detestable buildings in the world. The building was low, while what was specially required was height. He protested against resorting to the mode of showing pictures by means of skylights. As to the remedy, they might add a storey to the National Gallery, which would improve its appearance and give room for the Royal Academy, but he thought the best way would be to pull down the building altogether. He was sure the House would vote the sum necessary for a new one. Why had they not a building like the Louvre? He begged to express his disapproval of the proposition to pull down Burlington House, which was one of the finest pieces of architecture in London, and he did not think anything half so good was likely to be erected in its place. He had no confidence in the architects of the present day, who had never yet erected a fine building.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he was glad that Government had no intention of pulling down Burlington House. He was afraid that in course of time this fine building would be surrounded by buildings which would be a disgrace to it, but
 498 "You, too, proceed! make falling arts your care, Erect new wonders and the old repair; Jones and Palladio to themselves restore, And be whate'er Vitruvius was before."
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he opposed the Bill, on the ground that it was an instance of exceptional legislation for which no necessity whatever had been shown.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had not correctly apprehended the argument of his
 512
 MR. CAIRD  said, he was rather surprised at what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman as to the age of the forests. The Royal forests had been in existence since the days of William the Conqueror; and for many years past, down to recent times, there had been large falls of oak for the purposes of the navy. In Nelson's time the New Forest was largely used for the growth of timber for the Royal Navy. The question was whether it was right to maintain these large tracts of land for a purpose that was no longer necessary. There were extensive tracts of land perfectly open, where there was no timber whatever, where the common rights were of extremely little value; and the proper course would be to extinguish those common rights and convert the land to purposes beneficial to the Crown, the commoners, and the public. There was a great deal of desolate country perfectly capable of profitable conversion into smiling fields and homesteads.
 MR. CAIRD  said, it was now seven years since he brought under the notice of the House the extravagant expenditure incurred by the Office of Woods in converting 2,000 acres of Hainault Forest into a farm. The cost of doing so was £67,000, and the rent realized was little more than interest on this outlay, so that the fee simple went for nothing, while the public were for ever excluded from such rights as they had before enjoyed over this part of Epping Forest. During the last ten years, however, the revenue of the Crown estates had been steadily increasing, the gross receipts having risen in that period nearly 30 per cent. But one branch of the Crown estates, the Royal forests, presented a very different result. The net revenue, which in 1854 was £13,448, had fallen in 1864 to £7,090. Possibly some part of this was due to the conversion of forest land into farms, but still the fact remained that from some 120,000 acres of land, chiefly in the southern counties, the net rental realized was little over  1s. 480 481
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, referring to the fact stated in a Return (Treasury Trove, No. 297, of Session 1864) of portions of the Royal Revenue having in two cases been disposed of according to directions of the Lords of the Treasury, Whether it is not right that so unprecedented a step as the free transfer of the Crown's Revenue to private individuals should not be guarded by the usual constitutional forms?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had been much alarmed by an expression which fell from the right hon. Gentleman — namely, that a new building was to be erected "in harmony with the old one." That was exactly what the House did not want to see, and he, for one, hoped there would be no harmony whatever between the old and the new, but a complete design made with reference to the site and to the objects for which the building was required. This, however, was not now the question before the House, and they would have ample opportunity hereafter to protect themselves from any plan which was, objectionable. The present discussion was in substance, a renewal of the discussion of last year between the National Gallery on the one hand and Burlington House on the other. He very much preferred the site of the National Gallery, and was quite prepared to give his vote now in favour of the proposal to intrust the Government with this money for the purchase of the land, which was indispensable for the erection of a proper building on the present site. He should support the vote with the understanding that there would be as little harmony as possible between the old building and the new one, whatever it might be.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he rose to move that the clause be struck out, and submitted that the Treasury had deprived Sir Richard Bromley—a most able and distinguished public servant—of £233 a year, to which he had an absolute legal claim. He asked the opinion of the Attorney General as to whether this was not so. He could not help remarking upon the extraordinary and unexpected course which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Childers) had just taken. He was sorry to see that the Government had inserted in a Bill placed before that House a clause which he could describe in no other terms than as a shameful clause. The Bill was introduced many weeks ago, and the omission of this clause was moved by the hon. Member for Finsbury (Sir Morton Peto). The Government resisted the Motion, and had persistently adhered to the clause. The clause in the Bill, as it originally stood, had for its object to debar a meritorious
 501 502 503 mandamus
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped after what had fallen from the Attorney General, who had dealt very fairly with the case, that the Government would concede to Sir Richard Bromley whatever was due to him in point of law.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that Sir Francis Head's letter did that distinguished public servant great honour. He expressed his deep regret at the decision come to by the Government.
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, he wished to inquire whether there is no Officer in the Army capable of performing the duties of Dr. Sutherland, and whether he is entitled to superannuation?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, it would not do for the Government to produce private information. They could not produce confidential communications made by a servant of the Government to the Government itself in such a matter as this. The man was sentenced to be imprisoned for three months by a bench consisting of one stipendiary and three local magistrates, and was committed to prison. But there was some illegality in the forms that had been employed; and directly the Lord Lieutenant, the late Lord Carlisle, heard of it, he took the opinion of the Law
 469
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that though it did not appear in the papers, it was nevertheless the facts.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the papers which had been laid upon the table showed that the case was one which called for the attention of the Government. No doubt this Patrick Donohue was harshly condemned to imprisonment, illegally undoubtedly—as was stated by the Lord Lieutenant in his communication to the magistrates. It happened that at that time several incendiary fires had taken place in the neighbourhood, and that a positive information was sworn that this person, whose name was given at the time, had threatened to burn the farmstead.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, the magistrates of Tipperary had made no representation on the subject.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Bill was proposed to be passed for the smallest possible period, that was to the end of the next Session. As to the general state of the country, everybody would admit that it was most peaceable. For instance, in 1853, there were a thousand prisoners in gaol in Clonmel, but in the present year there were only sixty-three. That showed conclusively the great improvement which had taken place in the county of Tipperary. This Bill was proposed to be reserved only by way of precaution. There were certain baronies in Mayo, Galway, and Monaghan, and after communicating with the magistrates the Lord Lieutenant in Council would be prepared to take away the proclamations from those baronies. He trusted the House would consent to pass the Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that what he had said was, that he had communicated with the noble Lord, who said that he would make inquiries of the magistrates, and let him know whether they thought the proclamation might be withdrawn.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to say a few words, as the justice of Her Majesty's Government had been called into question. With regard to the liberality of the Government, he might state that if Sir Richard Bromley had retired from the office of Accountant General
 508
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, In what capacity Dr. Sutherland is employed by the War Department; what pay and allowances he receives; whether he is paid by salary or by day pay when actually employed; and, if by day pay, for how many days in the year he is employed on an average—from what Vote of the Estimates the payment is made; whether the arrangement has received the approval of the Treasury; and, whether there will be any objection to lay upon the table of the House a copy of the terms of his original appointment, and of any correspondence between the War Office and the Treasury on the subject?
 MR. CAVE  said, there could be no doubt that a great saving of time would be effected in the landing and dispatch of the West India mails, both as regarded Scotland and the West Coast, and only in a less degree as regarded London, if the mails were landed and embarked at Falmouth instead of Southampton. At present the mail steamers sailed from Southampton at between two and three in the afternoon, and the consequence was that the mass of the correspondence went down by the evening mail of the day before, so that a day might be said to be lost, whereas, if the mails could be taken on board at Falmouth, the letters could be posted on the evening of the day on which the packets leave Southampton. The same applied to the arrival of the mails. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Peel) two questions. The first was with reference to the Liverpool steamers. A convention had been entered into with the Royal Mail Company by which a certain subsidy was to be paid to them for carrying the mails, and an arrangement had also been come to with a steam-packet company at Liverpool for carrying letters to certain places. It appeared to him that in that respect the right hon. Gentleman had made a bad bargain, because the postage of all the letters the latter carried must be added to the amount of subsidy to be paid to the Royal Mail Company. The other question he had to ask the right hon. Gentleman was how long the French convention would last. The right hon. Gentleman had said on a former occasion that it was an anomaly that the French Government should be able to send letters at a lower rate than was charged in this country, and he wished, therefore, to know whether there was any chance of our putting the French Government on a footing with ourselves.
 MR. CAVE  said, that this Bill was founded upon a convention which was to last ten years. That was much too long a time. There might be mistakes  ab initio
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he had formerly drawn attention to the memorial of Sir Francis Head, asking that his claims should be considered; but it now appeared that the Government were unwilling to make any special provision in his favour. Under these circumstances he had received the following letter from Sir Francis, asking that his case should not be pressed:—
 513 "Croydon, June 6, 1865. "My dear Sir William Jolliffe, — In cheerful submission to the adverse decision of Her Majesty's Government with respect to my services in Canada, which has just been privately communicated to me, I lose no time in expressing to you my earnest desire that you will kindly abstain from uttering in the House of Commons another word in my behalf. For, as my case is now hopeless, you will, I am sure, concur with me that it would ill become me to allow—if I can possibly prevent it—any Member of Parliament uselessly to interrupt, for a single moment, the unanimity with which the Colonial Governors Pension Bill will, I hope, without any further reference to my services, now pass into a law. "Believe me to remain "Yours faithfully and gratefully, "F. B. HEAD."
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, if the Eire Insurance Companies were not satisfied they had better have kept the matter in their own hands. It would be most unfair to the Metropolitan Board to hand over to it the duty of carrying out this Bill and then hamper them by a proviso like this.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he could not agree to the proviso, and assured the hon. Baronet that according to the plans proposed to be carried out the protection to every part of London would not only not be diminished, but it would be increased.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, the Insurance Companies were under no obligation to provide a Fire Brigade, and if they were saddled with a large sum they might either withdraw altogether or charge an increased sum on their premiums. Within a radius of six miles from Charing Cross it was computed that there was property to the value of not less than £900,000,000, and not more than a third of that was insured. Insurance Companies could not be expected to provide Fire Brigades for those who did not insure.
 MR. AYRTON  said, it was apparent that, whatever scheme was devised, the inhabitants of the metropolis would have to pay whatever sum was levied upon the Insurance Companies. He contended that the sum contributed by the Insurance Companies should be charged upon the premium, instead of on the amount of property insured. The premium was the measure of the risk against fire, and therefore the measure of the duty which the Fire Brigade was called upon to perform. A person who occupied an ordinary house should not be called upon to pay as much as the owner of a warehouse where the risk of fire was large. In the levying of a halfpenny rate this class of property would escape paying its fair proportion. He would, therefore, suggest that the words as proposed by the hon. Member (Mr. Harvey Lewis) should be left out, and then the House should consider what other words should be inserted in their stead, in order to maintain the principle to which he had referred.
 LORD FERMOY , whilst admitting that the Bill was founded upon sound principles and would place the Insurance Companies in a better position than they at present held, said the objection which they, as representatives of the metropolitan ratepayers, had to the Bill was that in the compromise come to with the Insurance Companies the interests of the ratepayers were about to be sacrificed. The Companies would be certain to benefit by the change, and they should not shrink from paying as large an amount as before. He should support the Amendment proposed by his hon. Colleague (Mr. Harvey Lewis), and he trusted that the Government would
 532
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that if the offices chose to give up the brigade, the legal liability would rest on the parishes. There was no doubt a great deal to be said against raising the money necessary for maintaining the Fire Brigades by levying a rate; but, at the same time, by levying a contribution on the offices they were enabled to reach property which would be protected, but which would not pay anything to the rates. He hoped that the lowering of the duty would have the effect of reducing the amount of property uninsured, and that would diminish the difficulty of raising the contribution; because, of course, if the whole of the property of the metropolis was insured nothing would be fairer than to raise the necessary funds by a tax on the offices. As to the Amendment itself, he must object to it, because the present scheme was a compromise which he should be sorry to disturb.
 MR. T. G. BARING  reiterated his views that the contribution should be according to the amount insured, and not according to the premium.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  suggested that the period during which the Insurance Companies should contribute towards the expenses of the brigade according to their present rate, instead of in the manner provided by the Act, should be extended from one to three years.
 MR. AYRTON  thought the clause should be omitted from the Bill altogether.
 MR. T. G. BARING  agreed to extend the period to two years, and moved the insertion of an Amendment at the end of the clause.
 MR. AYRTON  thought the words of the Amendment would create great inconvenience if they differed from the provisions of the Metropolitan Local Management Act.
 MR. CLAY , with the view of relieving the Water Companies from the payment of rates on their pipes, those Companies having been in that respect very badly treated, moved to add at the end of line 5,
 "Provided, that the proportion of any such payment by the overseer of any parish which shall be attributable to rates paid by any Water Company in respect of their pipes or works, may be deducted by such Water Company out of the next payment of rates demanded by such overseer, and shall be allowed by him accordingly."
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  objected to the Amendment on the ground that it would give rise to great litigation.
 MR. T. G. BARING  also dissented from the Amendment.
 MR. CLAY  denied that any litigation would necessarily arise in consequence of the addition of the words he had proposed, and said that the reason why he had asked
 534
 MR. AYRTON  proposed a new clause (Maintenance of floating steam fire-engines on the River Thames by the Board), one provision of which was that the Conservators of the River Thames should pay £3,000 for the purpose out of the funds in their hands.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he could not agree to the clause, the Thames Conservators having no surplus.
 MR. AYRTON  proposed to add a clause (Persons to whom assistance has been given to contribute towards the maintenance of the Fire Brigade.)
 MR. T. G. BARING  opposed the clause.
 MR. PEEL  said, it was anticipated that the new fees arising out of the equity jurisdiction would fully cover the additional charge on the Consolidated Fund. Paying the Judges by fees was most objectionable. In the first instance, the County Court Judges were paid by fees; but it was soon found necessary to substitute salaries. It was proposed by this Bill to have no new salaries exceeding £1,500 a year; but only to augment the existing salaries when the Judges had imposed on them the new duty of judging in equity.
 MR. HENLEY  thought the principle of paying a Judge by salary and not by fees a sound one. The County Court Judges generally (there were exceptions in which it was more) received £1,200 a year, and it was proposed to increase their salaries by one-fourth. Had they at present one-fourth of their time idle? If not, how would the public receive a benefit for the increased pay? At present our gaols were lumbered up by County Court prisoners, sent under what was called penal imprisonment. When the new equitable jurisdiction was given to the County Court Judges, ought there not to be some provision against the enlargement of this penal imprisonment? He trusted that the Secretary of State for the Home Department would consider the subject.
 MR. HENLEY  was inclined to think what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer had strengthened rather than weakened what he had suggested. Deducting the time of travelling and of opening and closing Courts, which would remain the same, it would be an increase of one-third instead of one-fourth.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  thought every one would admit the care and ability with which the noble Lord had discharged his self-imposed task, and he, for one, regretted his labours had not been crowned with the success they deserved. If the Scotch Members would take a larger grasp of the subject, and not allow difficulties such as would arise in all cases of this kind to be regarded as insurmountable, there would be no impossibility in passing this Bill even now.
 LORD BURGHLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether there would be any objection to make provision in the next Militia Estimates for Brigading Regiments for Review during the last week of the Annual Training?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not able to give a definite answer to the Question of his noble Friend, the matter being one that must be reserved for consideration when the next Estimates were being prepared. It was not simply a matter of expense. He was aware that reviews of the kind proposed would be very acceptable to a great many militia officers; but there were other very good officers who would not like to give up the time that would be necessary. The subject, however, should receive the attention of the War Office.
 COLONEL NORTH  asked the Under Secretary of State for War, If the Report of the Committee upon the Recruiting of the Army will be laid upon the table of the House?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the Report was one entirely of a Departmental character; and, therefore, he did not propose to lay it on the table of the House. It would not be expedient to state the recommendations of the Committee until they should have been considered by the Horse Guards and a decision come to respecting them.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If any communications have taken place between the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and the Italian Government with regard to the detention of an English gentleman by the Brigands? After the amusing and pathetic account which had appeared in Monday's paper his hon. Friend would probably thank him for putting the question.
 THE O'DONOGHUE , in rising to move—
 "That an Address be presented to Her Majesty, representing to Her Majesty that conscientious objections to the present system of University education in Ireland prevents a large number of Her Majesty's subjects from enjoying the advantages of a University education, and praying that such steps may be taken as will remedy this grievance," 542 543 544 545 546 "That as a University training is especially useful to all who propose to become professors or tutors in colleges and masters in grammar schools, more than one-half of all those who are engaged in the conduct of superior education in Ireland are accordingly unable to obtain that training, while Catholic students, who form the majority of those receiving superior education in Ireland, suffer the practical grievance that those professors, tutors, and masters are in great measure deprived, not only of the literary and scientific advantages which a University course of studies gives, but also of the social consideration which attaches to the possession of academic degrees." 547
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he desired to offer a few observations in order that his vote might not be misunderstood. He was sorry to hear the hon. Member who brought this subject before the House (The O'Donoghue) in a speech which had been justly commended, go out of his way to depreciate the Queen's Colleges and the Queen's University of Ireland. He (Lord Dunkellin) begged leave to differ from his hon. Friend  in toto 571
 MR. HENLEY  said, the speech they had just heard from the Chancellor of the Exchequer contained some remarkable statements; and as he was unfortunately old enough to have taken part in the discussions which took place on the subject of Irish Colleges twenty years ago, he could not allow the question to pass without making a few observations on it. The right hon. Gentleman stated, with great force and truth, the difficulty that must be felt by many persons in sending their children to places where there was no religious education whatever; but he could not reconcile that statement with the strange praise the right hon. Gentleman bestowed upon the present system of education, which he said was the best possible system for the people of Ireland, from which such teaching was altogether excluded. The right hon. Gentleman might be able to reconcile these two conclusions, but he (Mr. Henley) was not. If there was one thing for which the
 587 588
 MR. PEEL  said, he objected to the Motion partly because some of the information it asked for was already in possession of the House, and partly because the information itself could be of no interest or value whatever. As to the amount of the balance of the Vote remaining unexpended, the hon. Gentleman would find that in the Finance Accounts, which stated the amount of the Secret Service money which remained unissued in the Exchequer year by year. If the other information asked for by the return were given, it would afford no insight into the application of the money, which he presumed was the only point which the hon. Gentleman would consider of interest or importance. Only one of two courses could be consistently pursued with regard to the Vote—either its distribution must remain secret or it must be done away with altogether. With regard to its application, there was the security of the declaration of the Secretary of State that it was applied in the manner in which the law intended it should be. He did not know how any improvement could be made in the checks now provided for the proper application of the money. The law which regulated the subject was passed in 1782. Its provisions were draughted by Burke himself in his Bill for the better regulation of the Civil List expenditure,
 592
 MR. T. G. BARING  offered to insert "three days."
 MR. SCULLY  thought that the measure had been pressed on with undue, if not indecent, haste, and hoped that some assurance would, at all events, be given that it would not in future years be treated in so hurried a manner.
 MR. SCULLY  was of opinion that the original Act was sufficiently stringent in its provisions without the Amendments proposed in the present Bill.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that a few technical alterations only had been made in the wording of the clauses.
 MR. SCULLY  thought, it would be better to substitute May for July, the former being the period when the Mutiny Act expired. The discussion upon the Bill must then come on at an earlier period of the Session.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the Bill was only for two years. He denied that it had been passed through in any unusual manner.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this Bill by no means stood upon the same footing as the Mutiny Bill. That was virtually a permanent Act, which, he trusted, the present measure was not.
 MR. HENLEY  asked for some explanation of its object.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  explained that, in the observations which he had made with reference to the Queen's Colleges, he meant to say that these colleges did not meet the requirements of the Catholics of Ireland. There could be no mistake about the fact that the Government had admitted the truth of the proposition laid down in his Motion, that there were objections to the present system of University education in Ireland, and though they had not thought fit to adopt the plan which he thought it best calculated to remove these objections, still he admitted that the proposition of the Government was one which, when well matured and developed, might possibly be worthy of consideration. He felt that he should not be acting with fairness if he did not express his thanks to the Government for the candid manner in which they had acted, and, with the permission of the House, he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. HENLEY  said, there seemed to be no security provided in the Bill that the docks should be made. He hoped that matter would be attended to in Committee.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  asked the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Whether he can give any information respecting the treatment to which Lieutenant Johnson, of the Royal Navy, has been subjected on the south-east coast of America? It appeared that one evening Lieutenant Johnson was on shore when his attention was attracted to two men, one of whom appeared to be murdering the other. He rushed forward and wrenched the pistol or knife from the assailant, who, having dealt him a blow, made his escape. After this, the police came up and seized Lieutenant Johnson, considering that he was the party who had murdered the other man. In spite of his protestations to the contrary they carried him off to prison, and ten hours elapsed before he was liberated.
 LORD ELCHO , in moving that the Chairman report Progress, said, he did so in order that he might have an opportunity of making a statement as to the portion of the measure, and the motives by which he had been actuated in bringing it forward. There was, however, small need for explanation since a paper which he held in his hand, explaining the reasons for introducing the Bill and the arguments in its support, had been scattered broadcast over Scotland, and had been sent to every official person and every one who might be supposed to be interested in the subject. He had brought it forward at the instance of a large number of people in Scotland who were anxious that there should be an improvement in the system of maintaining roads in that country. Various measures for that purpose had been laid before Parliament, and it had been frequently debated in that House.
 535 Lord Elcho 536 537 pro formâ,
 MR. LIDDELL  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any communications have passed between the Foreign Office and Her Majesty's Representative in China, relative to the permission said to have been given by the Chinese Government to its subjects to own
 540
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Bill was brought in upon the recommendation of a Committee; and it was proposed that a maximum sum of £300,000 should be appropriated in the manner indicated in the Bill. The principle had been tried with success in Hong Kong, and it was now intended to extend it to other colonies. It was hoped that by means of the Bill our ships would be provided with docks in our colonies.
 MR. O'REILLY  explained, that he did not mean to suggest that there should be any restriction as to the persons who might present themselves for examination, but only that different institutions should be represented upon the Senate.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he was not one of those who wished to have a grievance  572 573 Foley's Ethics 574
 MR. AYRTON  hoped it would be clearly understood that if hereafter bankruptcy jurisdiction should be given to the County Court Judges, this would not involve another increase of salary.
 MR. LEFROY  admitted that both sides of the question had been ably and fully stated, and concurred in everything which had been said on the subject by his right hon. Colleague (Mr. Whiteside). He did not think that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had fairly stated the views of Sir Robert Peel when he brought forward the question of the Queen's Colleges. He had referred to the speech of that right hon. Baronet, when he found that Sir Robert Peel, so far from stating that religion was to be made part of the system, said that if they wished religious instruction to be given to the people in these academical institutions, provided they got the consent of the guardians, there was nothing in the Bill to interfere with such an arrangement. He was not at present prepared to express an opinion as to the proposition of the Government; but they would have an opportunity of amending it before they were called on to vote upon
 590
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  objected to the proposed increase, and said, it had been found by a Return that the Judges whose salary had been raised to £1,500 had not been the most deserving so far as their duties were concerned. There were nineteen Judges who sat in their Courts only from 150 to 200 days in the year, and thirty-five who sat only from 100 to 150, and one who actually did not sit 100 days. If this increase in the salary should be made, those holding other legal appointments of a similar character would be making application to be placed on the same footing. He feared also that the measure would be detrimental to the legal profession itself.
 MR. LAYARD  said, there had been a report to the above effect in the public papers, but the Government had received no information on the subject either from the British Consul at Shanghai or from Her Majesty's Minister at Pekin.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the accounts which appeared in the papers last week were entirely fabulous, not containing one word of truth. With regard to Mr. Moens, he had unfortunately been carried off by brigands into the mountains, and Her Majesty's Government had been in constant communication with the Italian Government upon the matter. Both Governments were doing all they could, prudently, to obtain his release; but as the subject was one requiring delicate management his hon. Friend, of course, would not expect him to go into details of the actual steps taken. This morning intelligence had reached that the chief of these brigands had been captured. He was not aware whether Mr. Moens had been yet released, but he hoped that event would not be long deferred.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the facts of the case were not exactly as the gallant Admiral had stated them. The occurrence took place in the Argentine Republic, not at Rio. Lieutenant Johnson was returning home late one night when he heard screams issuing from a house. He endeavoured to enter by the front door, but found it locked. He went round to the back, and thus gained admission. He then saw two men in mortal conflict. He interfered and wrenched the pistol from one of the men, who then escaped. Some watchmen came in, and seeing a man dangerously wounded, they seized Lieutenant Johnson and severely beat him. They then carried him off to prison, where he was locked up for many hours, and only released when he explained who he was. Mr. Thornton, the British representative in that county, brought the subject under the consideration of the Argentine Republic, and an apology was made for what had been done, and the watchmen had been apprehended and would be tried for the offence of which they had been guilty. The representative of the Argentine Republic in this country had also expressed his regret to Earl Russell at the circumstance which had taken place.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  believed that the House had been taken by surprise by the evidently foregone conclusion on the part of the Government to found some institution in the nature of a Roman Catholic University. The question was being discussed without adequate information as to the plan proposed. Unless some further information was afforded, he should think it his duty, on the first practicable day, to move that the Government should furnish the House with the details of the plan they contemplated. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) had explained that there was nothing in the educational institutions of Ireland which either created or perpetuated the exclusion of which complaint had been made. As to the complaint of inequality, it was only just to preceding Governments and to Parliament to say that this inequality was not of their making, but was due entirely to the Papacy. The Roman Catholic Bishops in Ireland were instructed by the Papacy to object to the Queen's University, and forbid the youth of Ireland from availing themselves of the educational facilities offered by the University of Dublin. He was apprehensive that, unless great care was taken in the organization of the contemplated University, the same principle of exclusion which had been practised at Maynooth, by which the Roman Catholic laity had been excluded from that college, would be practised, and the contemplated university would become as exclusively Roman Catholic as Maynooth was now exclusively ecclesiastical—as exclusively Roman Catholic, and probably Ultramontane, in its teaching as the right hon. Member for Limerick had explained that the National Schools of Ireland had become, which he informed the House were now largely under the control of the regular orders of the Church of Rome. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman was a great admirer of the Jesuits and of the
 575 "Every man is free to embrace and profess the religion he shall believe true, guided by the light of reason." "Protestantism is nothing more than another form of the same true Christian religion in which it is possible to please God equally as in the Catholic Church." 576 "In the present day it is no longer necessary that the Catholic religion shall be held as the only religion of the State, to the exclusion of all other modes of worship." "78th: Whence it has been wisely provided by law in some countries, called Catholic, that persons coming to reside therein shall enjoy the free exercise of their own worship." "National Churches can be established after being withdrawn and separated from the authority of the Roman Pontiff." "The definition of a National Council does not admit of any subsequent discussion, and the civil power can settle an affair, as decided by such National Council." "Kings and princes are not only exempt from the jurisdiction of the Church, but are superior to the Church in litigated questions." "The Church has not the power of availing herself of force, or any direct or indirect temporal power." 577
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked, who had the disposal of the greater part of the money? [Mr. F. PEEL: The Foreign Minister.] The speech of the right hon. Gentleman was a piece of Ministerial sophistry. It was absurd to compare the present times with the stirring and contentious period of 1782. He would most certainly divide the House.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , in moving for Returns of the expenditure for Secret Service, said, he was induced to make the Motion in consequence of a debate which had taken place a few nights ago in Committee of Supply. His Motion did not interfere with the principle of secresy of appropriation; all it asked was for information as to the proportions of the Secret Service money which each department received. He was surprised to find that the Government intended to object to a Motion of such a mild and inoffensive character. That this might be preliminary to still further inquiries he could not deny; but at present all he asked was the proportions spent by the different Departments. He had heard from a casual source that the great proportion was spent by the Foreign
 591
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  objected to the wording of the clause as of too stringent a character, and moved that twenty-four hours' imprisonment be substituted for seven days.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  accepted that Amendment, and withdrew his Motion.
 MR. WHALLEY , in rising to move the second reading of the Bill, said he was aware that the repeated postponements which had taken place had greatly interfered with its prospects of becoming law this Session. The Bill had been prepared with great care, and he believed would meet a great and acknowledged evil at
 593
 MR. WHALLEY  rose to move the second reading of this Bill, which he said was intended to get rid of a clause that had been surreptitiously introduced into a Bill which passed last year. That Bill was the meagre result of the labours of a Committee which sat nearly half of last Session. One conclusion at which the Committee arrived was that new projects for railways should not be resisted on the ground of competition. That Resolution was rescinded after a great part of the Report had been agreed to. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) brought in a Bill during the last Session of Parliament for the purpose of relieving the public of the enormous difficulties and impediments which attended the prosecution of this branch of commercial enterprise, and that measure provided that if any landowners agreed in making a railway through their estates they should not he compelled to incur the inconvenience and expense attending the ordinary passage of railway Bills through both Houses of Parliament. Though this proposal was a very moderate one, the associated railway companies insisted, in case of their feeling themselves aggrieved by the construction of any proposed railway, that the Bills should pass through Parliament in the ordinary way and that the Board of Trade should be divested of its powers, and the right hon. Gentleman was compelled to insert a clause to this effect, contrary to
 594
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that what he had said in respect to Dr. Croly he had stated upon the authority of one of the Commissioners of Education, who had been sent round the country to ascertain the views of the bishops with regard to the best sites for the Colleges, and who had given evidence on the subject.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that the examination to which he referred was subsequent, in point of time, to the events in question.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, the question now before us being one of very great importance, I think we ought clearly to understand what is the policy about to be inaugurated by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey). I concur with the hon. Member for Tralee (the O'Donoghue), that there can be nothing more interesting to the Parliament of a free country than the education of those who may hereafter direct the councils and frame the laws of the land of their birth; and I also agree that education does not consist in the mere reading of books, but in that instruction which strengthens the faculties and liberalizes the mind of youth, and brings it into harmony with the institutions on which the welfare and greatness of the country depend. When I saw the hon. Member's original Notice of Motion I understood it. It was a direct Motion for granting a charter to a Roman Catholic seminary in Dublin. That was an intelligible proposition. But when I read his re-modelled Motion I came to the conclusion that it was a substitute for a direct Motion, and designed to enable a Mi-
 557 An Analysis of the late Census of Ireland 558 559 560 561 562 563 564
 MR. WHITESIDE : Certainly not, because it would be directly contrary to the foundation of the University.
 MR. BAGWELL  seconded the Motion, observing that the hon. Mover had, in a speech of singular moderation, nearly exhausted the whole subject. He thought that the hon. Member had, in the course of his speech, satisfactorily shown that the state of things in Ireland, with regard to University Education subsequent to the establishment of the Queen's Colleges, was by no means such as that House and the country, which paid so largely to these institutions, could desire. The late Sir Robert Peel—and he was not sure but
 548 549
 MR. BRADY  said, he believed that the debate of that night would be memorable in the House and the country, and that the proposition of the right hon. Baronet on behalf of the Government would find acceptance with the people of Ireland. He believed the people of Ireland were ready and willing to make a fair compromise, in order to get rid of a state of things which was the most unpleasant and unsatisfactory that had ever existed. He hailed the tone and temper of the House that night as most satisfactory, and considered that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) would go far to promote the success of the measure the Government intended to introduce, and to secure for it the due consideration of the country. He looked upon the exclusive system of University education as doomed.
 MR. HENNESSY  wished to say a word or two upon what he considered the extraordinary statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin. The right hon. and learned Gentleman told the House that Dr. Croly was friendly to the Queen's Colleges.
 MR. HENNESSY  could assure the right hon. Gentleman that Dr. Croly never altered the opinion expressed in the petition. The Roman Catholic bishops had been from the beginning, and were now
 569 570
 MR. HENNESSY  would refer to what the late Sir B. Peel said in respect to the sentiments of the Catholic bishops, including Dr. Croly. On the 23rd of June, 1845, when the question of the Queen's Colleges was under discussion in that House, Sir B. Peel noticed the fact that the Irish Catholic bishops were unanimously against the measure; and to a petition presented to that House declaring that the principles of the proposed colleges were contrary to religious faith and morals the signature of Dr. Croly, as well as the other Catholic bishops, was attached.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, the salaries would not be too large if they were to get the best men.
 MR. C. MOORE  thought the measure would prove satisfactory if properly carried out.
 MR. VANCE , in seconding the Motion, asked whether there was any record existing of the manner in which the money was spent in times gone by—say, seventy or eighty years ago—and, if there were, would there be any objection to its production? The time had come, he thought, when this Vote ought to disappear from the Estimates.
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, any Scotch Member who took up this subject in the new Parliament would find it rather a hopeless one. There could be, however, no objection to the Bill being put into a more perfect shape, with a view to its consideration hereafter. The noble Lord was mistaken in thinking that he (Mr. Blackburn) opposed his Bill in the interests of the railway companies. They had nothing to ask. He, however, objected to permissive Bills altogether. The noble Lord, however, he might be permitted to say, was eminently entitled to the thanks of the country for the pains and trouble he had bestowed on the measure.
 MR. LONGFIELD  hoped the House would not agree to the Amendment, as he thought it most desirable that there should be a uniformity of legislation for England and Ireland.
 MR. LONGFIELD  regretted that the old principle of fees had not been retained. The duties of the Judges varied considerably—some Judges would be getting £300 a year for hearing ten extra cases, while others would have perhaps 300 additional cases. The annual sum of £18,000 would be required to increase the salaries £300 each.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had not received any representations on the subject, and consequently there was no present intention to legislate.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that though the clause to which the Bill of the hon. Member referred was inserted in the original measure against his wish, certain opposition to the progress of the Bill was withdrawn in consequence its insertion. This fact, coupled with the circumstance that there had been but little time to test the utility of the measure, compelled him to decline to give his support to the Motion of the hon. Member.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the conclusion drawn by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) from the Bill—namely, that the County Court Judges were not employed more than three fourths of their time, was a good way from the truth. A large amount of their time was employed in travelling from place to place, and in opening and closing their Courts. It was now proposed to make a considerable addition to their duty, which, however, he believed they might perfectly well undertake. As to the
 529
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, certainly my right hon. Friend the Member for Limerick expressed the opinion to which I have referred. That, of course, is a matter which it would be the duty of the Government to consider very carefully, because it must not be assumed that precisely the same regulations which are at any given time desirable in England must necessarily, at the same moment, be expedient in Ireland. I do not think that we shall see any fulfil-
 584 585 586
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The speech of the hon. Member who has just sat down (Mr. Newdegate), seems, as is rather common with his speeches, intended to act on the nerves of the House. He has made a selection of most startling and alarming propositions from a document recently issued by the Court of Rome, but which appear to me to have very little relevancy to the question before the House. So far as the language of those propositions is applicable to the present discussion, it ought, as it seems to me, to be an encouragement to us to go forward steadily in the path in which my right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) has announced that we mean
 578 579 580 581 582 583
 MR. MONSELL : That, then, is the only reason—a scrupulous respect for the authority of law and the foundation statutes. Passing from the right hon. Gentleman's speech, he would ask the House to consider the practical working of the present system of granting University degrees in Ireland, All would agree that it was desirable to elevate the people, and he would test the present system by its results. There was, undoubtedly, among the great mass of Catholics in Ireland a conscientious objection against sending their children to the Queen's College or to Trinity College. They were, therefore, compelled to allow their children to forego the advantage of University degrees. The right hon. Gentleman had said that the class of persons in Ireland who would be likely to send their children to a University was very small, and referred to extracts from a pamphlet to prove his statement. A reference to the Census of 1861, however, showed that of the class which was composed of professional men, landed proprietors, and others of the proprietary classes, the proportion was 5,339 Catholics, 5,799 members of the Church of England, and 1,200 Presbyterians. Of those receiving superior education in universities, seminaries, and schools in Ireland there were 6,292 Catholics, 5,261 members of the Church of England,
 566 567 568
 MR. MONSELL  said, he did not know that he had ever heard a speech which caused him so much astonishment as that of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin University. Why, he had over and over again heard that right hon. Gentleman use all his eloquence to denounce a system of mixed education— [Mr. WHITESIDE: That is a mistake.]— and now he came forward to object to a
 565
 CAPTAIN STACPOOLE  expressed satisfaction with the measure promised by the Government, and hoped that the suggestion thrown out by the hon. Member for Longford (Mr. O'Reilly) would be carried out.
 COLONEL SYKES : The principle of the Bill was right; but there were private interests and associations which were opposed to any general measure on the subject. He believed a Bill to abolish tolls would be generally approved if their interests could be propitiated.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  drew attention to the fact that the County Courts of England cost the enormous sum of £240,000, and Scotland cost £100,000, while those of Ireland, whose Judges had a more extended jurisdiction, only cost £15,000, and part of that was recouped by a stamp duty. A small stamp duty on every case ought to be charged on the English business.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  thought that the Government had made a step in the right direction. A great part of the speech of the right hon. Baronet opposite he had heard, not only with satisfaction, but with admiration. He should, however, be wanting in candour if he did not say that he thought the conclusions to which the right hon. Baronet had come were not entirely satisfactory—those conclusions were so vague that he found it difficult to deal with them. The right hon. Gentleman placed two alternatives before them—either to enlarge the Queen's University in Ireland, so as to enable persons wherever educated to go up for degrees to that University; or, secondly, so to affiliate what was now called the Catholic University in Ireland to the Queen's University, as to enable students of the Catholic University to go up to the Queen's University for the purpose of obtaining degrees. The former of these
 589
 SIR GEORGE GREY  gave the hon. Gentleman credit for the pains he had taken in this matter, hut, as it was impossible at this period of the Session to pass the Bill, the hon. Gentleman would do well to withdraw it now, and he hoped he would have an opportunity of introducing it again in the ensuing Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the subject under discussion has been brought forward in a very temperate and able speech by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tralee (the O'Donoghue), and has a very important bearing on the highest class of education in Ireland. It undoubtedly affects a large portion of our fellow-subjects in that country, and if it could be shown that they labour under any positive disadvantage with respect to University education, as compared with other classes of their fellow-subjects, they would be well entitled to have their case fairly and deliberately considered by this House. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Tralee has confined his Motion and his speech to University education, but I understood him to refer not only to the course of education and instruction in literature and science pursued in the Universities, but also to the results of that course in qualifying for academical degrees. Now, a degree is not merely a nominal distinction. However valuable in itself, as a test and proof of a man having obtained a certain proficiency in literature and science—valuable as the standard of intellectual improvement is high—it confers a substantial advantage in professional pursuits in after life. In some professions a degree is an indispensable condition of practice. In others it confers advantages when a man enters upon his profession. Thus, in the case of the Bar, I believe that a person who has taken his M.A. degree may be called two years earlier than he otherwise could be.
 550 551 552 553 554 "I think that the advantages in favour of a central University decidedly preponderate. I think a central University affords a common arena in which from all these Colleges the youth of Ireland may assemble, and contend in honourable and honest rivalry for those exhibitions and prizes and those honours which are consequent upon, and result from, superior intellect and superior attainment. I think the national character of such an institution can only be exalted by such fair and honourable rivalry and competition; and it is not in the power of Universities, whatever their number or excellence, if scattered through the provinces, to confer equal advantages upon the country with those which would result from such a central institution, nor could you hope to attain from them that great moral effect and that beneficial influence in after life, which would be produced by the youth of one academical establishment meeting at a central point the youth of
 555 Hansard, 556
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  could not refrain from tendering his thanks to the noble Lord for the able and frank manner in which he had done his best to meet all objections.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been directed to the hardship inflicted upon working men by Master Manufacturers in their charge of rental upon machinery in reduction of their earnings, and in contravention of the principle of the Truck Act; and whether it was his intention to introduce a Bill for remedying that hardship?
 MR. STIRLING  said, the noble Lord had not quite done justice to the county which he (Mr. Stirling) had the honour to represent. He was aware that when the Bill came before Parliament the county of Perth did not view it in a very favourable light; but after it had been
 538
 MR. HENLEY  thought the President of the Board of Trade had given very satisfactory reasons why the House should not proceed further with the measure. It was probable that owing to the extension of our shipping operations the number of disputes in question had considerably increased, and it was of course desirable that those disputes should be settled as expeditiously and as inexpensively as possible. He did not think, however, that the Court proposed by the Bill would form a satisfactory tribunal. The Court was to consist of a Judge and four or five gentlemen who were to act as his Assessors; but they were all to have an equal voice in deciding both questions of law and questions of fact. The sound principle was that the Judge should lay down the law, and the juries decide as to the fact. Nor did he think that the Admiralty Court was so very popular that the establishment of an unlimited number of small Admiralty Courts, as was proposed, would be regarded by the country in the light of a blessing. He was, however, glad that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade intended to turn his attention to the subject, for it was deserving of consideration whether local courts might not be constituted with power to deal with cases in which the amount involved was under £50. Many of them would probably be better settled by means of arbitration than by any other mode.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, that though he should be disposed to support any measure which had for its object the localizing and cheapening actions in shipping cases, he regarded the tribunals which it was proposed under the Bill to constitute as altogether novel, combining together as they would the duties of Judge and jury. To the establishment of such
 604
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he could coroborate the statement of his hon. and learned Friend, that the Bill had originated with the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce, where the evils it sought to remedy were much felt, and had received the approval of the Associated Chambers of Commerce. Under all the circumstances of the case he hoped his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade would give his serious attention to the subject, with a view of remedying the evils complained of.
 LORD RERMOY  thought that at this period of the Session it was futile to discuss this important question. He was, however, glad to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer admit that the whole banking system of Ireland was in an unsatisfactory state. In Ireland there was a great desire to develope the agricultural
 608
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS,  in moving an Amendment that the Bill be read a second time on that day three months, said, the speech of the hon. Gentleman had not satisfied him that the Bill ought to receive the sanction of the House. He admitted that the provisions of the present Bill were different from those of last year, but the object appeared to be the same—namely, that these schools should be under the control of bishops of the Church of England. The classical and mathematical education given in many of these schools was open to pupils of all persuasions; but if they were compelled to attend religious service on the Lord's Day the children of Dissenters would be deprived of the advantage of attending these schools. In many of these schools the boys were not sufficient to form a congregation, and it would be very hard to deprive the master of the opportunity he now enjoyed of assisting clergymen in the neighbourhood in the performance of Divine service. In the greater portion of these schools the pupils lived in the town with their parents, and it was the duty of the parents to take them to their own places of worship. Nor could he see the advantage of compelling the children to attend a chapel in or connected with the school, with all its associations of the rod and tasks, &c. The Bill placed these chapels under the superintendence of the bishops, yet they were told that the bishops were overworked, and that a dozen new bishops would not be too many. A Commission bad recently-been appointed to inquire into these endowed schools, and it would be quite time to consider this subject when Parliament was called upon to legislate in regard to these schools. No one had petitioned for the Bill, and he begged to move, that it
 611
 MR. HOBSFALL  said, he should feel it his duty to vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for Derby. The Bill professed to give the public protection against the railway companies; but he held in his hand a circular which would put an end to that delusion. That circular, which was signed with the name of Mr. Thomas Coates, stated that the Parliamentary Committee of the railway companies had discussed the provisions of the Bill with the Board of Trade, and those provisions were now in harmony with the views of the railway companies. Of course they were; for the clauses in favour of the public had been struck out. It was said that this was merely a Bill for the consolidation of previous enactments, and yet the Amendment which he had proposed to introduce would not be accepted by the right hon. Gentleman, though the provision which the Amendment embodied had been inserted in a former Bill. In the North Staffordshire Bill a clause had been inserted which subjected railway terminal charges to arbitration, and that was the very principle of the clause which he proposed to introduce as an Amendment. That was the sum total of the protection which he proposed to give the public, and yet the right hon. Gentleman had taken exception to it. In cases of difference, who was to decide under the Bill proposed by the right hon. Gentleman? None but the railway companies. But let hon. Members picture to themselves a trader taking a case into Court against railway companies with their millions of capital. What, then, could be fairer than to adopt the principle of the North Staffordshire Bill, and to have arbitrators appointed? Such a protection was absolutely necessary to the public. If his hon. Friend would consent to insert a clause to that effect he should be disposed to support the Bill; but the Bill in its present shape was injurious to the public and iniquitous, and he should oppose it.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to hear that the right hon. Gentleman would follow the course which all his Colleagues had recommended should be taken with every measure that had come before them to-day; and therein the right hon. Gentleman was acting with great discretion. But the right hon. Gentleman would allow him (Mr. Henley) to call his attention to this point. The House had been informed that, as regarded the framing of this Bill the right hon. Gentleman had held no consultation with anybody, but had framed his measure by taking those clauses which were usually found in railway Acts.
 MR. HENLEY  repeated, that the right hon. Gentleman had stated that his measure was framed on those clauses that were usually found in railway Acts. How was it, then, that every provision that operated as a protection to the public had been struck out of the Bill by the right hon. Gentleman's own hand? As the Bill originally stood there were five or six provisions which gave some protection to the public; but they were now gone. Now, it was the duty of the Government, in introducing model clauses, to take care to introduce those which protected the public; the railway interest was quite capable of looking after itself. The title of the Bill as amended, was, "A Bill for consolidating in one Act provisions frequently inserted in acts relating to Metropolitan and other railways." But these words should have been added, "and to give further power to certain public bodies in the metropolis to obstruct improvement, and enable railway companies further to oppress the public." He was thankful that the measure was to go along with all the other Bills already discharged, and that hon. Members would have the chance of getting away sooner.
 MR. PEEL  said, the Lord Advocate intended early next Session to introduce a Bill making the law on that point quite clear.
 MR. HADFIELD  asked, Whether it was a dignified course for the House to pass every year these indemnity Bills? He believed that if the Government had taken up a measure for abolishing the old qualification such a measure would have passed
 625
 MR. PEEL  said, the object of the Bill he was now introducing was not only to grant indemnity to those officials who had not taken the declaration required by the Act of George IV., but also to grant it to those who had not taken the consolidated oath now imposed in lieu of the former oath of allegiance and abjuration. The Bill of the hon. Gentleman had reference exclusively to the declaration under the Act of George IV., and even if passed it would not have dispensed with the necessity of this measure.
 COLONEL DUNNE  could not see the advantage to the working classes from such an arrangement, and asked what Parliamentary sanction had been given to this valuation of a working man's life at £100?
 MR. LYGON,  in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that he had introduced the measure at a much earlier period of the Session, but this was the first opportunity that had presented itself of moving the second reading. The measure dealt expressly with institutions connected with the Church of England, and Nonconformists were not intended in any way to be affected by its provisions. If it could be shown that their interests were touched in any way by the Bill, he would most willingly consent to any alteration of the measure that would remove all doubts on that point. A Bill was introduced last Session to afford facilities for Divine service in collegiate schools; but the measure now proposed was much larger in its scope, and much more satisfactory. Under the parochial system, as at present existing, it was impossible for any clergyman to perform Divine service in any part of a parish without the consent of the incumbent; and hence it followed that the incumbent had the option of prohibiting the performance of Divine service in any insti-
 609 610
 MR. LYGON  said, he was willing to accept the proposal of the Home Secretary. The reason why the measure had been deferred to so late a period of the Session was that he had been anxious to obtain the co-operation of the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter). His hon. Friend took some time to consider the matter, and that was the reason why he had not been able sooner to proceed with the Bill which he had laid on the table in February. He was glad to hear so general an admission of the necessity of some legislation on this subject.
 MR. DENMAN,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that the measure
 600 601 602 pro formâ.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the right hon. Gentleman had given no explanation of the allusion made by the hon. and learned Member opposite (Mr. M'Mahon) to the valuation of a mechanic's life at £100 in certain cases of railway accident. Now, the clause in question was really of extreme benefit to the working classes. Whereas the railway companies had power to charge at the rate of 1 d.
 LORD FERMOY  seconded the Amendment. Their constituents out of doors had reason to complain of the way in which the President of the Board of Trade had dealt with the Bill. The Bill had been subjected to so many alterations that it was to all intents and purposes a new one. The parishes of St. Pancras and Marylebone had, of all others in the metropolis, been most invaded by the railway companies, and no one except those who were intimately connected with the traders of the metropolis could form an idea of the absolute ruin which was caused by those companies running a line through a populous district. He had known many excellent and industrious tradesmen in St. Pancras and Marylebone utterly ruined in consequence of the railway companies cutting off customers from getting access to their shops. The conduct of the Government with regard to this Bill had been something very like underhand dealing with the House, and ho should give every possible opposition to the Bill unless his
 618
 MR. HADFIELD  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that the Bill would place the chaplains of schools in a position of rivalry with the incumbents of the parish. The founder of these schools contemplated the teaching of the child, and not the appointment of the master as chaplain. The measure would create an empire within an empire. Why did not the hon. Member bring in the Bill at an earlier period of the Session? Last year the Bill came on for discussion in a similar manner at the fag end of the Session. Believing that the measure would violate the foundation deeds of charities and unsettle the lights of Dissenters in these schools, ho supported the Amendment, and would cheerfully divide against the Bill.
 MR. BLAKE  rose to move the second reading of this Bill. He said it was very simple in its character, and its provisions would, he thought, recommend themselves so much by their justice that it would be unnecessary for him to trespass upon the time of the House at any length. The
 598
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, the inhabitants of the metropolis had the greatest possible reason to complain of the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman. Several Bills had been withdrawn to-day on the ground that it was too late in the Session to pass them, and that was the course which ought to have been pursued with regard to the present Bill; but the right hon. Gentleman had allowed himself to be overpersuaded by the railway directors who were now sitting behind him. The Metropolitan Underground Railway was calculated to supply a grievous want, but it also brought to light a grievous want, and that was, a want of proper legislation for railways running through the metropolis. His noble Colleague (Lord Fermoy) had stated that he knew several instances of persons who had been ruined by the construction of the metropolitan railways. The law was, that persons injuriously affected might obtain damages against the companies, and many persons proceeded against them in the Sheriff's Court and had been awarded damages, which in some cases the companies paid. But at last the railway authorities took heart of grace and appealed to the Court of Queen's Bench; and the Court decided that the judgment of the Sheriffs' Court was right. The railway companies upon this appealed from that decision to the Court of Error, and there it was decided that a person might be injuriously affected without being wronged. And now the law was, in such a case, that persons not having money could not obtain compensation because they could not go to the House of Lords. One would have thought that to Clauses 21 and 22 of the former Bill there could have been no reasonable objection; and yet these clauses had been struck out, through what occult influences he would leave it to the House to imagine. He had himself presented a petition in favour of these clauses, and especially of the compensation clause. They were told that the Bill contained nothing new, and, therefore, they ought to pass it as a matter of course. But if there was nothing in the Bill but what was law at present, then let the law remain as it was until next Session; and let nothing be introduced by a side wind. If the Bill should go into Committee, which he hoped would not he the case, he should ask leave to introduce a clause which, he believed, had emanated from
 620
 MR. J. B. MOORE  said, he believed that the establishment of a speedy mode of settling those suits was extremely desirable, and he thought their thanks were due to the hon. and learned Gentleman who had introduced the Bill, although it might not be expedient to pass it in its present form.
 MR. VANCE  said, he had come down to the House with the intention of opposing the Bill, and was glad there was a prospect that he would be spared the trouble of entering into any lengthened argument with that object. The provisions of the Bill would affect, not only Waterford, but other cities in Ireland, and, among them, Dublin, whose interests would be prejudiced by the proposed transference of the power of appointing so responsible an officer as a sheriff from the Government to the corporation. Hitherto, as a matter of fact, the most eminent citizens of Dublin had been chosen to fill that office without any distinction of creed or party.
 MR. VANCE  said, that however ingenious might be the proposals contained in the Bill, or the arguments put forward in its support, he could not regard as a patriotic proposal the suggestion that a great corporation like the Bank of England should be brought across to Ireland and encouraged to enter into competition throughout the country with all the native banks. This very subject of legalizing the tender of a Bank of England note had been brought under the consideration of the Select Committee of 1858, composed of many of the most eminent and experienced men of the day, with whom he had enjoyed the honour of being associated, and the unanimous opinion of that Committee was opposed to taking any action in the matter. The directors of the Bank of Ireland were examined before that Committee, and they simply proposed that their notes should be made a legal tender in Ireland. The late Sir George Cornewall Lewis thought, under the circumstances, that was a reasonable proposition; but such an enactment had never been proposed. No practical inconvenience resulted from the present arrangement, for the rate of exchange, once very high, had fallen to a point only equalling what would be requisite to cover the transmission of gold between the two countries. The question was one that, if taken up at all, ought to be left in the hands of the Government, and the hon. and learned Baronet, he thought, would act wisely in withdrawing the Bill.
 MR. WALTER  said, that as his name was on the back of the Bill he should like to state the views which had induced him to place it in so prominent a position. It appeared to him that his hon. Friend who had charge of this Bill, and the hon. Gentleman who opposed the second reading (Mr. Remington Mills), were acting on different grounds. So far as he was concerned, he had never contemplated the schools to which the hon. Member had just alluded. He considered this Bill as a prospective rather than a retrospective measure. He happened to know that a measure of this kind was required on principles of justice. It was well known that there was a great want at the present day of large public schools for the education of a class of persons who could not afford the expense of going to the large old educational establishments. Many benevolent persons had combined to establish schools of that character. Acting upon the denominational principle, which was the governing principle of education in England, they wished to connect their school with the religious denomination to which they belonged, and in the case contemplated by this Bill that denomination happened to be the Church of England. Take the case of persons wishing to found schools for 400 or 500 boys upon some site not within or near a town. They thought a country site best for the health of the boys; they bought the land cheap in a rural district and they founded a large institution. But the moment they began to build a chapel, or to provide for the religious services of the institution, the clergyman of the parish might step in, and control and upset their arrangements. He believed that the Wellington College was one of the most important institutions founded in modern times; yet the clergyman of the parish in which it was situated had the right to step in and interfere with the religious arrangements of the College. He, for one, did not desire to interfere with the  status quo 612 status quo 613
 MR. BASS  said, that this was the second Bill on the same subject, and a great many of the clauses which were of advantage to the public in the former Bill were not to be found in this. Now, the subject was one which required much more consideration than it was possible to give it at this period of the Session. Clause 10 in the former Bill, which related to taking possession of shops and dwelling-houses, provided that the companies should give six months' notice beforehand; but the railway magnates had succeeded in getting
 617
 MR. M'MAHON  said, that in the course of last Session a Bill was introduced for the purpose of limiting the amount of compensation to first-class railway passengers to the small sum of £300. The whole power of the railway interest was brought to bear in support of that Bill. [Mr. MILNER GIBSON: NO!] The right hon. Gentleman must know what influences were brought to bear better than he could, but at all events the Bill was favourable to the railway interests. That Bill was thoroughly considered by the House, and thrown out by a very large majority. Now, it so happened that in one of the Railway Bills passed last Session a clause was smuggled through the House limiting the compensation for killing a mechanic to—what sum did the House think? What was the value of a mechanic's life in the opinion of railway directors? [An hon. MEMBER: No; of the Board of Trade.] Well, it might be the opinion of the Board of Trade too. The clause to which ho referred was in the Bill of the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway—and he mentioned the circumstance because the right hon. Gentleman said there was nothing new in the Bill. Now, he would ask, was there any general railway Act in force applying to England, Ireland, and Scotland in which the compensation for killing a mechanic was reduced to £100? And not only was the compensation not to exceed £100, but the amount to he awarded was to be determined by an arbitrator appointed by the Board of Trade, and not otherwise. Now, in a Christian country to introduce such a clause was the most wicked thing he ever heard of. Cicero mentioned that it was one of the moot questions of his day whether in a storm one should throw overboard a cheap slave or a dear horse. Well, he supposed the right hon. Gentleman had been considering that question. In the Canal Navigation Act the limit of compensation for the loss of a horse was £50. Assuredly a valuable horse ought in the estimation
 621
 MR. BLACKBURN  was also glad to hear the Chancellor of the Exchequer say that the present banking systems both in Scotland and Ireland were in some respects unsatisfactory. He (Mr. Blackburn) had brought in a Bill last night upon the subject as regarded Scotland, but without the slightest hopes of its passing into a law. The general feeling appeared to be in favour of free trade in banking. He trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would devise an effectual remedy for the evils complained of.
 MR. COLLINS  would recommend his hon. Friend to adopt the proposal of the Home Secretary, because, although there appeared to be an almost unanimous feeling that something ought to be done, yet it was impossible the Bill could be properly
 616
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, there was clearly some misapprehension as to the nature and objects of this Bill. He was charged with having been advised by the railway companies and the various parties interested in order to determine what clauses the Bill should contain. Of course it was right, as far as it could be done, to consult all parties interested, so as to know what they had to urge. But in this case it happened that the only advisers he had were the Acts of Parliament and the decisions of that House. The object of the Bill was to condense and settle the clauses which had been sanctioned by Committees on Private Bills, and which were of such a character that it was thought safe and proper to incorporate them in a general Act, so as to save Parliament the trouble of repeatedly enacting the same thing. His hon. Friend objected to the Bill because it did not contain a great many provisions which would be for the public advantage. He was quite ready to admit that changes had been made in the Bill since it was first introduced. And why? Because it was found after some consideration that clauses had been introduced which it was believed had not been sufficiently sanctioned by Parliament to justify their incorporation in all future Acts. The clause in which the Marylebone vestry took such great interest had been introduced into only one metropolitan railway Act, and in consequence of which the company concerned gave up the line altogether, because the compensations would be so excessive that it was out of the question to think of making it. The Board of Trade, therefore, did not consider themselves justified in introducing that clause, seeing that it had had the sanction of Parliament only in one particular Bill. He accepted the doctrine that every person should be protected from injustice, but the present law was supposed sufficient to do that. ["No, no!"] Parliament at least had thought so. Now, so far from the Bill having
 622 623
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  admitted that the subject was one which was deserving of the fullest consideration of the Board of Trade—he was also prepared to grant that it was important technical knowledge should be at the command of a Judge who had to come to a decision on cases in which such knowledge was requisite; but, then, he was not of opinion that the Judge ought necessarily to be a man who had followed the calling out of which such cases arose. The Assessors who were to be appointed under the Bill were, he found, to have votes; so that they would, to all intents and purposes, be Judges in a cause in which, independent of other considerations, they might, as manufacturers and traders chosen by the Town Council of the borough nearest to the place at which the Court sat, have a personal interest. This, he thought, involved a principle which could not be admitted. He had no doubt that there was under the present system great delay as well as expense in dealing with the cases which arose, and it was a question deserving of consideration whether a Judge of the Court of Admiralty should not go circuit, and be assisted by Assessors, rather than that novel local courts should be established. It would, for instance, hardly be desirable to refer for decision to a court in which shipowners might have a preponderating influence the question of wages; which could, he thought, be more satisfactorily dealt with by the magistrates on the spot.
 603
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  denied having said that he had had no communication with the railway authorities in respect to this measure. He had certainly intended to say the very reverse.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it had been his fortune more than once in following his hon, and learned Friend (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) to admit the clearness of his views and the ability of his arguments. He must, however, dissent from his proposal that this Bill should be read, even  pro formâ, 606 607
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, it was generally admitted it would he impossible to proceed with the Bill this Session, and that the only object in discussing it was that its principle should be fully understood, and thus the way prepared for future legislation. It appeared that some grievance had led to the introduction of this Bill, and it was one suffered by members of the Church of England, because they belonged to a State Church. In fact, in some respects they were more fettered than the Dissenting bodies. There was nothing to prevent Roman Catholics, Independents, Quakers, or Mormonites from establishing a school according to the religious principles of their respective persuasions—the law did not interfere. But if Churchmen established a school, it was possible for some legally authorized person to interfere with the religious teaching which the parents might wish to be given. He did not think that members of the Church of England should, on some consideration of "Church and State" policy, lose the liberty enjoyed by other persuasions, and he was favourable to the principle of the Bill so far as it granted that liberty. There was, however, a danger to be guarded against, and care must be taken that the rights of Dissenters should not be interfered with. It was not unnatural that the measure should be regarded with suspicion by the Dissenters. There were several educational establishments which their children had the right to attend, and others as to which their rights were in doubt or dispute. It was necessary that nothing should be done to weaken the present rights or claims of Dissenters, and such a measure, if brought forward at all, should be introduced by the Go-
 614
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its object was twofold—to make Bank of England notes a legal tender in Ireland, and to do away with some restrictions which now injuriously affected banks of issue in the latter country. As things at present stood, the only legal tender in Ireland was gold, which produced inconvenience when the sum to be paid was large; and in the case of a pressure for money in Ireland gold had to be sent over from London.
 605 pro formâ
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not concur in the grounds on which the objections of his hon. Friend who moved the Amendment were founded, but he agreed that it would not be desirable to proceed further with the measure at the close of the Session. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lygon) explained that he had brought it in at an early period of the Session, but that he had not had an opportunity of asking the House to agree to the principle until the present time. If there really was a practical grievance, as stated by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Mr. Walter), he should be sorry to object to the application of any proper remedy. He understood it to be alleged that in public schools, such as Harrow, Rugby, and Wellington College, Divine service could not be performed by the master or any chaplain attached to the schools without the consent of the incumbent, and that this consent was not always given. His hon. Friend who spoke last (Mr. W. E. Forster), said that the Government ought to bring in a Bill next Session to remedy the grievance; hut all he (Sir George Grey) could say was that not one word had ever been addressed to him as to the existence of any grievance or inconvenience of this kind. He was not aware of any practical difficulty in the performance of Divine service in such institutions. At Harrow he was sure there was none. Dr. Arnold continually performed Divine service in the school chapel of Rugby, and several volumes of most valuable sermons preached by him at Rugby had been published. He was not aware that the slighest difficulty had occurred at Rugby which this Bill would remove. If, however, there was any case of this kind—and he gathered from the speech of his hon. Friend that there was one such case—if the incumbent of any parish exercised any right which he might possess of refusing his licence to a clergyman to officiate in a public school, that might be a reason for an alteration of the law. But the present measure went much beyond that. It included within its
 615
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had been in communication with the Lord Chancellor and the Attorney General for Ireland, with regard to the provisions of the Bill now under consideration, and he was bound to say that in its present shape it would not be in the power of the Government to give the hon. Member that assistance in passing the measure he required. He did not think the hon. Member had any intention of pressing the Bill at present, but merely wished to ventilate the question. With regard to Clause 7, a Bill had been proposed, and which had passed that House, by the right hon. Member for the county of Limerick (Mr. Monsell) secured, to a great extent, the object of that clause; and with reference to Clause 12, which proposed to take the appointment of high sheriff of corporate boroughs and counties from the Lord Lieutenant and transfer it to the corporate bodies, he was surprised that the hon. Member should wish to have such a change made, considering how much the corporations, both in England and Ireland, were influenced by the very feelings which the hon. Member had referred to; and which rendered it peculiarly desirable that these appointments should be made by some authority without the corporations. He had taken some pains to ascertain whether there was really any grievance in Water-
 599
 MR. CAVE  said, there was no doubt that some such Bill as that was demanded by the mercantile and shipping community of this country. The measure might, he believed, be somewhat better framed, but it appeared to him that its principle was perfectly correct—namely, the principle that a mixed tribunal, consisting of both legal and commercial gentlemen, should be established for the settlement of these cases. He thought, however, that the Court should be presided over by a lawyer. Legal education was essential. He knew an instance of a practical man, as the term was, being arbitrator in a shipping case, and re-opening matters of fact which had been agreed upon on both sides. On the other hand there was as much hard swearing in shipping, especially in runniug down cases, as in horse cases, and the presence of nautical men as assessors with diagrams, who could cross-examine witnesses, as to the wind, tides, and tack the ships were on when the collision occurred, would be very useful. The Bill was crude and imperfect, but might be the precursor of a really useful measure.
 MR. LAWSON  asked, Whether there was any intention on the part of the Government to alter the law respecting the Solway, as to which there was considerable uncertainty?
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, in rising to put the Questions, of which he had given notice, to the Secretary of the Admiralty in connection with the loss of the  Bombay, 630 "I am sure no man who could swim need have lost his life that day; those who could not were too stupified to help themselves. Though a deal of gear was thrown overboard that would have floated, many, many poor wretches (marines) I saw who could not swim jumping overboard, boots, coats, and all. I saw all this from the quarter-deck netting. Had the breeze been as strong as it was an hour before, half those saved would have been lost. Want of powers of swimming was the cause of their deaths. We had no men in their beds; luckily all the sick were saved, or rather saved themselves." Bombay Bombay
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he wished to add that last year the Holy head lifeboat went out with fifteen men on board; the boat was upset, but, all having on the lifebelts supplied by the Royal Humane Society, they were picked up by a steamer with the exception of one man, and it was supposed that he had been struck by a spar.
 MR. CAVE  said, that he had received a communication from the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane), stating that, owing to a death in his family, he should be unable to move certain Amendments of which he had given notice, and begging him to take charge of them. He would, therefore, with the permission of the Committee, say a few words in explanation of the Amendments taken together, and then state the course which, with the full concurrence of his hon. Friend, he proposed taking with respect to them. The first related to the age at which a Governor should be entitled to a pension; and he certainly thought that when the harrassing nature of the service and the variety of climates to which he was exposed were considered, sixty was a very advanced age for the commencement of a pension. It was besides a premium on age instead of on work, and could not be defended by reference to the superannuations under the Civil Service Act, where the employment
 664 665
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped that the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell) would at all events assent to the first of these Amendments, which would reduce the ago at which the full rate of pension might be granted from sixty to fifty years. On the former occasion when the Bill was discussed, when he (Sir John Pakington) had expressed an opinion that very few Colonial Governors were to be found to whom the Bill would apply, the right hon. Gentleman (the Secretary of the Colonies) corrected him, and said that eighteen gentlemen would derive benefits from this Bill. But, in private conversation, the right hon. Gentleman admitted that, although there were twenty-eight gentlemen who by their services would be entitled to pensions, only three or four of them had attained the age at which those pensions would accrue. It was clear that many cases of hardship might arise under the Bill as it now stood. It would be very hard, for instance, that a man who had served in a bad climate and returned to this country in bad health at the age of fifty should have to wait for ten years in comparative poverty before he could receive a pension. Difficulties might also arise out of the provision in the fifth clause, which required a service of twelve years before a pension could be granted even at the reduced rate. He himself was acquainted with an instance of a gentleman who, having served as Colonial Secretary in two colonies, was in consequence of his meritorious conduct promoted to a Governorship in the West Indies. There, too, his service was so distinguished that long before the expiry of his government he was transferred to the Mauritius. The consequence was that his term of service amounted to only eleven years, and he was, therefore, disqualified from receiving a pension, while, if he had been less meritorious, he would have remained longer in the West Indies, and would have acquired the right.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that it was a most ungracious task for one in his position to argue against extending the benefits to be given to Colonial Governors under this Bill; but he must at once lay down the
 666
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he regretted that the Government had confined themselves to so limited a view in reference to these pensions, his own opi-
 667
 MR. CAVE  said, that after the appeal made to him he would not press his Amendments. He had already stated that he would do nothing to endanger the bill, of which he approved, as an instalment, as far as it went. Thanking, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman for such measure of justice as he had been able to propose, he begged to withdraw his Amendments.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he agreed with much that had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. The truth, however, was that the colony of Victoria was for a long time
 669
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to express his great satisfaction at the course taken by the Government. Though Mr. Latrobe only held the position of superintendent, yet in his latter time he had discharged the most difficult duties that could fall upon a Governor. He was practically Governor of Victoria during that period when the advance of the colony exceeded anything in the history of the world; he alluded to the progress caused by the gold discovery. He (Sir John Pakington) held the seals of the Colonial Office at the time, and he could bear testimony to the fact that Mr. Latrobe discharged his duties with great judgment and was well entitled to the consideration of the House.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, that Mr. Latrobe entered upon the duties of his office in 1839, with a salary of £800 per annum, which was raised in 1846 to £1,500, and further increased in 1851, when the gold discoveries took place, to £2,000, and in 1852 to £5,000. In 1854 he resigned. Mr. Latrohe's successor entered upon his duties with a salary of £10,000, with house, and £5,000 for table money.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, he thought a proper reward for this gentleman's meritorious service would be to give him a higher office.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was afraid Mr. Latrohe's age unfitted him for the public service.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he opposed the clause, on the ground that this was not the time or the occasion for considering this question which was a very wide one—namely, what ought to be a disqualification for Members of Parliament. At some future time it should come under the consideration of the House. In his opinion it would be necessary rather to restrict than give increased facilities for repeated onslaughts on the Treasury. He was sorry to see such a disposition on the other side to urge Government on every occasion to dilapidate and to waste the resources of the country.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the question, as the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had observed, was a very wide one—namely, whether pensioners should sit in the House, and when considered by the House ought to be taken upon its own merits. He saw no reason why a special exemption should be made with respect to those affected by this Bill. It was a fair subject for consideration at a future time, but it was not desirable to consider it in connection with this Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he could not agree to the proposed Instruction. If the Government were to propose to overturn the constitution of the Sheriffs' Court and to displace the Corporation of London in reference to it, he feared that they would be making the Bill the occasion for a contest between the Government and the City of London, which would preclude the hope of passing the measure in the present Session. The Bill actually went to some extent in the direction which the hon. Member desired. The Sheriffs' Court was under a somewhat different form and a somewhat different jurisdiction, doing the work of the County Court; and this Bill would give to it the same equitable jurisdiction that it gave to the County Courts. Another year the assimilation would be
 681
 MR. AYRTON  said, that not wishing to endanger the passing of the Bill, he would withdraw his Motion.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he entertained great doubts whether the jurisdiction proposed to be given to County Court Judges was not far too great, and whether it would not tend to clog the working of their Courts, thereby injuring rather than benefiting the public interests. Were it not so near the close of the Session, he should have felt disposed to move that the maximum of £500 should be reduced to £200.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he should support the clause as it stood, and indeed thought the limit might have been safely fixed at £1,000. Small tradesmen resorted to the County Courts with great confidence, and he thought the jurisdiction ought to be extended to a larger sum.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he approved the clause, believing that the County Courts had given general satisfaction, and that the public were anxious to have these equitable suits rapidly and economically decided by them.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the extent of the jurisdiction proposed to be conferred by the Bill had been carefully considered, and he believed it might safely be intrusted to the Judges of these Courts. He thought that £500 would be a proper medium.
 MR. MURRAY  said, he hoped that the limit would not be fixed below £500. If they placed it at a lower amount than that the utility of the measure would be greatly impaired.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that he did not question the competency of the County Court Judges to exercise such a jurisdiction, but feared that the imposition of these new duties upon them would interfere with the small cause business which they now dispatched with so much advantage to the public.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  thought the Judges should be required to take their holidays during the period of the long vacation.
 MR. MURRAY  said, if a County Court Judge wished to take his holyday at any other time than the long vacation he ought to provide a substitute.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought the clause might safely he left as he proposed.
 MR. POTTER  said, that there was an exemption clause already by which all the rights of the Courts of Stannaries in the Duchy of Cornwall were reserved. If that were done in Cornwall why should it not be done also for the Chancery Courts of the County Palatine of Lancaster, the business of which was a hundred-fold greater than that of all the Courts of Stannaries?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that the Bill gave no new jurisdiction to the Courts of Stannaries or took anything away. At present there was an appeal from the decision of the Vice Chancellor of the County Palatine of Lancaster to the High Court of Chancery. If the clause were agreed to the effect would be to deprive the mercantile community of Liverpool and Manchester of the rights of ultimate appeal which they now possessed, inasmuch as the decision of the Vice Chancellor would, under the Act, be final. This clause gave the Court of Chancery of the County Palatine official jurisdiction; and he did not see any reason why the suitors there should be compelled to put up with an inferior equitable jurisdiction.
 MR. C. TURNER  said, the Attorney General was entirely wrong in thinking that the people of Lancashire would not be satisfied without going to the High Court of Chancery. The truth was, they did not want any power to appeal to the Courts in London, but to have appeals decided in the cheapest Court, and in the speediest manner. He believed the mercantile interests both of Liverpool and Manchester were quite satisfied with the decisions of the gentleman who presided over the Chancery Court at Liverpool.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that this was but a repetition of the attempts so often made to annihilate these Courts. Their defenders had the disad-
 684
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to suggest that the words "at the option of the party appealing" should be altered so as to give both parties the option.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that he would assent to this Amendment.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, the Attorney General need not fear the Courts here being disturbed with many appeals by Lancashire men to the prejudice of their own just, epuitable, and economical Courts.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he thought it possible to carry theoretical objections too far, and he therefore would consent to the insertion of the clause.
 MR. C. TURNER  said, that on behalf of the people of Manchester, who would naturally wish to have recourse to the local court, he must oppose the Amendment proposed on the ground that it would render the clause valueless, inasmuch as one of the parties would be sure to object.
 MR. PEEL  said, that if the Bill proposed by the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) had become law—as he wished it had—it would still have been necessary to pass the annual Indemnity Bill, which was applicable not only to the declaration substituted for the old sacramental test, hut also to the consolidated oath which had taken the place of the oaths of allegiance, abjuration, and supremacy. The only difference, if the Bill of the hon. Member had passed, would have been that there would have been no reference in the Indemnity Bill to the subject of the declaration referred to. If they could not repeal the law as the hon. Member wished, the next best thing was to suspend its operation. He therefore hoped the House would allow the Bill to pass into law. With regard to the clauses of which the hon. Member for Sheffield had given notice, he could offer no opinion till he had an opportunity of seeing them.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he thought the House instead of passing an Indemnity Bill ought honestly to repeal some of the Acts to which the Indemnity Bill related, and which rendered it necessary. One, in particular, an extraordinary one, the 2nd of Anne, c. 6, was entitled "An Act to prevent the further growth of Popery;"
 686
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the effect of the clanses, of which his hon. Friend (M. Hadfield) had given notice, would be to render an annual Indemnity Bill unnecessary, by abolishing the declaration which the law now required to be made. If the Government would take charge of a measure containing such clauses perhaps certain people in another place would allow it to pass. There was a great terror in that place of giving a triumph to the Dissenters represented by his hon. Friend. Whether that feeling was worthy of a great House, or was a very mean one, he would leave the public to determine; but if the Government would take up the measure it would go into the other House under auspices which would render it in the eyes of some people more respectable, and possibly it might pass. If the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Peel) would give a pledge that the Government would adopt that course—and probably he would do so, as many things could be done just before a general election—his hon. Friend would not think it necessary to divide the House. As it was, he was anxious to carry a reform, which he said was desired by millions of his fellow-countrymen, and he was, therefore, fairly at liberty to take every opportunity of insisting upon that being done in favour of which they decided in six successive Sessions.
 SIR MICHAEL BEACH  said, he would not oppose the Bill, but he hoped that the Government would next Session introduce a more general and comprehensive measure on this subject. Many roads were unjustly and inequitably dealt with by this Bill. The principle upon which it was based was that of putting the charges of the turnpike roads upon the parishes through which they ran, according to the mileage of the roads. He trusted that the Government would next Session bring in a Bill to place the maintenance of these roads either upon the highway district or upon the county, so as to make the inhabitants of the towns pay their proportion of the expense.
 COLONEL PENNANT  said, the House was aware that there were a great many turnpike trusts the local Acts with respect to which had expired. These trusts varied in almost every case with regard to the circumstances under which they were continued—the debt, the manner in which it had been incurred, the income, and the liabilities of the parishes through which the roads passed. Each year a Bill was introduced to continue the trusts, with the exception of those which were placed in the schedules. It was much better to leave the selection of the road trusts which were to be placed in the Continuance Act to the Home Office than that an individual Member, pressed perhaps by his constituents, should move to insert any particular trust in the schedule.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, it would, no doubt, be exceedingly desirable if the House could see its way to some general legislation for the abolition of these trusts, but it was perfectly impossible to do so at the present time. In every case which came before the Home Office great care was taken to inquire as to whether the trusts ought to he abolished, so as not to throw any extraordinary liability on particular parishes.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, be believed that every Motion made was recorded by the Clerk of the Committee. He should be glad to know what record was made of the Motion that these three Bills be referred to the same Committee.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the Order of the House was that the three next Orders should be referred to the same Committee.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH : Who is recorded as the Mover of the Motion?
 THE CHAIRMAN : That is not given. Motion  withdrawn.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he had to move an Amendment, the object of which he stated to be to introduce the Lower Road from Greenwich to Woolwich into the Bill, contrary to a promise made in the last Session by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey), that the trust should, in the present Session, be decided upon by a Select Committee, along with the New Cross Road, the Bermondsey, Rotherhithe, and Deptford Road, and the Surrey and Sussex Road. It had been introduced into the Bill for the purpose of continuing it. That was a course directly contrary to the arrangement made, and he was fully justified, therefore, in taking the sense of the House upon the subject. The Bermondsey and Rotherhithe Road Trust having been given up, and a rate levied for the support of the road, complaint was necessarily made of the invidious distinction. It was no answer to the claim that a toll should be taken off that there was a small debt existing. A proposal was made by the deputation to the Home Office for paying off this debt, but nothing had been done. The inhabitants of Bermondsey and Rotherhithe, where the trusts had been abolished, complained of having to pay eightpence in the pound to maintain their roads while a turnpike was kept up which interfered with their trade in supplying Woolwich with goods. The debt upon the tru3t was only £2,000. At the north side of the river a debt of £20,000 had not stood in the way of a trust being put in the schedule. If the House had come to a resolution, that within a certain metropolitan area road trusts should be abolished, that resolution should be adhered to.
 MR. T. G. BARING  was not aware that the House had decided that there should be no turnpike trusts in the metropolis regardless of existing interests. The roads on the north of the Thames had only been thrown on the rates when the debts had been paid off. No doubt, the Archway and Kentish Town Trust was abolished, notwithstanding the existence of a long debt, but in that way a proprietory road could not be quoted as a precedent in this case. The trust to which the hon. Gentlemen referred had a  bonâ fide
 MR. LAYARD  said, that as representing the borough of Southwark, he hoped the hon. Gentleman (Mr. T. G. Baring) would re-consider his decision. He had certainly understood on the occasion of the deputation to the Home Office, that the toll should he abolished. There had boon a promise that the Bill should this Session be referred to a Select Committee. The inhabitants of Southwark and the inhabitants of Woolwich had petitioned against the Bill. The toll was a source of great inconvenience to his constituents.
 MR. COX  said, that there was no good case for maintaining these tolls any more than there had been for maintaining those upon the north side of the Thames. Then private interests were concerned, and yet the tolls were abolished.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it had been conceded that one of the greatest impediments to traffic in the metropolis was the existence of these tolls. If persons lent their money on the security of an Act of Parliament the term of which had expired he thought then the public interest should be paramount to that of creditors.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir as several questions have been addressed to me in the course of this discussion, it would have been my duty to have taken part in this debate, if there had been no other reason to induce my rising. Before, however, answering those questions I will venture to make a few observations upon the general object and effect of this Bill, and, in doing so, I may express my belief that it would be very easy either to overstate or to understate its value and effect. If any man thinks it would be a good tiling to emancipate the clergy of the Church of England from the obligations which they are under, to adhere and conform loyally to the principles and the doctrines of the Church of which they are members, he certainly could not regard this Bill as in any way applying the axe to the root of the tree. Nor does it in any way alter the substance of the doctrine, discipline, or formularies of the Church. Still less does it aim at affording any encouragement to clergymen to belong to the Church, to take part in its ministry, and to share in its emoluments, without at the same time being loyal and conscientious members of that Church—an encouragement which, if offered, I could not but regard as immoral and demoralizing. What was said by my hon. Friend (Mr. Buxton) has been misunderstood. What my hon. Friend meant was, that the end the Bill was intended to accomplish was to relieve scrupulous consciences from a restraint which seemed to them to be imposed upon the exercise of that reasonable degree of liberty which was consistent with loyal adherence to the Church, and which there was reason to believe all wise legislators for the Church, whether spiritual or temporal, had intended to permit. I cannot but think that, in this respect, the relief which this measure is calculated to afford by the change in the declarations is likely to be attended with salutary effects. In truth, we are reminded on this occasion of an argument employed in the discussion of the Roman Catholic Oaths Bill—an argument which, I believe, had a good deal
 657 658 659 660 661
 SIR CHARLES DOUGLAS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it be the system
 628
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET,  in reply, stated that the cadets on board the  Worcester Bombay, 631 Bombay Excellent, Bombay
 MR. LEFROY  said, he wished to express his satisfaction at the spirit and tone in which the Bill had been introduced. The right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) had so clearly shown that, without removing any one of the protections which the Church was fairly entitled to claim, consideration would be extended by this measure to the views and feelings of scrupulous and conscientious clergymen that it was impossible to resist the impression created by his arguments. He had never heard a more full, clear, or satisfactory exposition than that given by the right hon. Gentleman. Into the question connected with Convocation raised by his right hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. Whiteside) he would not enter. Accepting the statement of the Attorney General, that no insult or slight had been intended towards the Irish branch of the Established Church, he would only express a hope that on future occasions whenever consultations or deliberations were thought desirable in Convocation, measures would be taken to secure a representation of the Irish branch of the Church, the necessity for whose consent was not denied. This Bill, he hoped, would have the effect of settling questions which had long been debated, and thereby of
 663
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that of late years there had been a transposition of duties in this House. Formerly the Mouse watched over expenditure, and were careful to check extravagance on the part of the Government. But now Members rarely objected to expenditure; and this Session members had got up more frequently than he ever remembered to ask why the officers of this or that department were not better paid. Last year it was the Post Office, but the Government then showed that the men were well paid; and this year it was the out-door Department of the Customs, and he had no doubt there was a fallacy behind the hon. Gentleman's arguments on its behalf. When the hon. Member opposite complained of low pensions being given to certain officers, the question was how long they had served, and whether they were not able to maintain themselves in other ways. Of late years our Civil Service establishments had become so large, the number of persons interested in their maintenance and extension was so great, that he began to fear that the virtue of Parliament would suffer. There was a spirit of combination among the civil servants and their friends to keep up the system. The Civil Service now had a gazette of its own, which trumped up the merits of departments, and complained of inadequate pay. Some time since he had come to the conclusion that the staff of the Department of the Poor Law was more than sufficient, and that the secretary to the office might be dispensed with; but the sense of the House was opposed to any change. Some ten days ago there had appeared an article in the  Civil Service 674 Gazette,
 MR. BUXTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Lord of the Treasury, Whether he is prepared to give an answer to the application made to him by a deputation which waited upon him some time since, with regard to affording the clerks in the several Government offices the opportunity of obtaining a half-holiday on Saturday afternoons?
 MR. BUXTON  said, he certainly would not venture to touch on the question as to the claims of the Convocation of the United Church to be heard on this matter, and he would not have risen at all to address the House were it not that he had regretted to observe that the importance of the changes with regard to the tests imposed on the clergy that had been proposed by the Commission which sat last year, and which were embodied in the Bill before them, had been depreciated in some quarters, as if, after all, those tests would remain about as stringent as they had been before. Now, he admitted that the change did not go so far in the way of relaxation as be could himself have wished; but, at the same time, he thought that it was one of great importance, and he also thought that the precedent now established was in itself of great value. It was a remarkable fact that a Commission, including eight archbishops and bishops, and several other dignitaries of the Church, should have unanimously agreed to sweep away the whole of the existing declarations required from the clergy, and to substitute a perfectly new form; and that this reform should also have been acquiesced in by Convocation; and he confidently maintained that the change thus unanimously agreed to was radical in its kind, though it might be too moderate in degree. The distinction between the proposed test and those now existing was this, that whereas at present those who took orders or promotion in the Church were obliged to declare that they accepted all and everything contained either in the Prayer Book or the Thirty-nine Articles, in future they would only affirm their acceptance of the doctrine of the Church contained in those books as a whole, without pledging themselves to a belief in every assertion and every dogma that the Church in those books might have laid down. Having been himself a Member of the Commission which proposed this change, he was in a position to affirm that it was the express intention of the Commission to relax the extravagant stringency of the existing tests; in other words, to make it possible for men to minister at the altars of the Church, although they might dissent from some part of her teaching, provided, however, they accepted it as a whole. To that last con-
 647 bonâ fide ex animo 648 649
 MR. NEATE  said, it might be that though at one time it had been necessary to urge the Government to keep down all profuse expenditure, it was now necessary to protest against what might be called the extravagant economy of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. With regard to the Post Office, he did not think the observations of the hon. Member for Truro (Mr. Augustus Smith) were applicable; because the result bad proved that it was rather a case for proper interference, and was a precedent for carrying out the same principle in other departments. With regard to the Custom House, he thought his hon. Friend the Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) had, by means of representations made more than once in that House, induced the Chancellor of the Exchequer to
 675
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he regretted that the measure or the Report of the Commissioners had not dealt effectually with a question so distressing and discreditable to the Church as that of simony. The spirit of the declaration against practices of this kind was violated every day in the most businesslike manner, and every auctioneer could put a client in the way of obtaining half-a-dozen livings, if necessary, on the shortest possible notice. The Commissioners had not been content to pass the question by, for they had altered the phraseology of the declaration, and, without in any way remedying the evil, had, he feared, laid a new trap for the consciences of the clergy.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he was much interested in the discussion, as he considered the Bill to be a most extraordinary chapter in the history of England. Two centuries ago an Act was passed—the Uniformity Act—to make people pray and preach exactly a like, when a large number of the clergy seceded and were persecuted for so doing. The preamble of this Bill declared that the subscriptions, declarations, and oaths, required to be taken by the clergy were, by the enlightened opinion
 655 656
 MR. SHAW LEFEVRE  said, he regarded the measure as an advance, although a small one, in the right direction, and as such it should have his most cordial assent. He wished to say a few words upon what had fallen from the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) in reference to the Irish Convocation. It certainly appeared to him that if it was necessary in any way to obtain the assent or concurrence of the bishops and clergy of the Established Church in England, the like course should also have been taken in regard to the Irish Church. As long as that strange anomaly, the Irish Established Church, existed, the same course ought to be pursued in respect to it in such matters as was pursued in respect to the English Church, and therefore he quite agreed in what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman on that point. But he would ask the Attorney General for what purpose the assent of Convocation was required? The 9th Section of this Bill expressly enacted that no subscriptions or declarations other than those required by the Bill should be taken by any of the clergy after the passing of that Act. It appeared to him, therefore, that it was idle to ask Convocation to make a new canon on that subject, because if the canon passed by them differed from the Act it would be void—if only in the words of the Act it would be superfluous and unnecessary. The Convocation had appeared to feel the helplessness of their position, and instead of waiting for the Royal licence to make a new canon, had taken the discussion on the new subscription on application for a licence. He wished, therefore, to know whether the custom which had grown up in Convocation of discussing these matters without waiting for the Royal licence was a constitutional one. The usual course had been since the Act of Submission, commonly called the "Muzzling Act," to wait till the licence was given them before discussing any important matter connected with the Church. Perhaps he might
 652 "From the preceding narrative it will be seen that the Convocation is assembled by the Royal writ, but that they are not properly an ecclesiastical synod until the licence for business is granted. It is merely the licence for business that is now wanting to permit the Convocation to transact any matters which the Crown might recommend or the circumstances of the Church require." "The Convocation has not acted as a provincial synod for many years, because the Royal licence has not been granted. As soon as the licence is issued a power is given to the Convocation which it did not previously possess, though assembled by Royal writ. It is then a provincial synod, and competent to transact ecclesiastical affairs. "They are a Convocation by his writ of summons; but a council, properly speaking, they are not, nor can they legally act as such till they have obtained the King's licence so to do." "The Convocation has, happily for our country, been so long utterly insignificant that till a recent period none but curious students cared to inquire how it was constituted. The law, as it had been interpreted during a long course of years, prohibited the Convocation from even deliberating on any ecclesiastical ordinance without a previous warrant from the Crown." 653 "Between independent bodies of religionists and the Church of England no parallel can be established. They are not involved in the Constitution of the country. They may meet and deliberate and resolve without constituting that anomaly in Government an  imperium in imperio. "He had never advocated the restoration of the Convocation as the governing body of the Church, because, besides other objections, he was of opinion that the government of the Church by the clergy could not, and should not, be tolerated in these days. The revival of Convocation, as it at present existed, or, indeed, any attempt to govern the Church by means of the clergy exclusively, he should think highly inexpedient and not a little unjust." "Convocation is the Church of England by representation, and that Church is the primary institution of this country, around which all the others revolve and revert to for precedents of authority. I congratulate Convocation upon the
 654 "We can only consider it as an acknowledgment from the highest personages in the land that the Convocation is a co-ordinate member and integral part of the English Constitution." "He had trusted that this phantom of the Convocation had disappeared for ever, for he had long conceived all its powers to have expired. He could not refrain from quoting two lines of an English poet, where he introduced common sense as a queen governing the world by her sway:— "'Fair Common sense, while thou dost reign on earth," The Convocation will not meet again.' He could not suffer himself for a moment to believe that the national character was so degraded as ever to submit to the revival of Convocation in our land."
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, I entirely agree with the right hon. Gentleman as to the value and utility of this Bill. I think that the right hon. Gentleman and the Government deserve the thanks of the House for the manner in which the Commission was constituted which was empowered to inquire into this very delicate and important subject. I have also personally to thank the right hon. Gentleman for the courteous manner in which he has considered the Amendments which I have proposed, and I am entirely content with the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman proposes to deal with them. To obtain simplicity and uniformity in the Church, and at the same time to make the Bill acceptable to the class of persons to whom the right hon. Gentleman referred is a great gain to the Church. The closing words of the Commission, to which the hon. Baronet has alluded, deserve the notice of the House. They are—
 "These recommendations we now humbly offer to your Majesty. To carry them into effect some alterations must be made in the canons of the Church, and some in the statutes of the realm. We trust that our proposals will be willingly accepted both by the Church and by the State." 639 640 " Dissentient: 
 "1. Because that, while agreeing that it is expedient to simplify and assimilate the Laws of Clerical Subscription in all the Provinces of the United Church of England and Ireland, and while acquiescing in the general Reasonableness of the Recommendations made in the Report of the Royal Commissioners upon which this Bill is founded, we deem it inconsistent with the ancient Customs of this Church and Realm that in a Spiritual Matter so nearly affecting the whole Body of the Clergy, Canons enacted with the Assent of the Crown, by the Bishops and Clergy synodically assembled, should be altered or annulled without a Royal Licence previously given to them to re-consider and alter those Canons. "2. Because the Course taken in the bringing in and passing this Bill, which alters, without the Concurrence of all the Bishops and Clergy of the Church of England and Ireland synodically assembled, Canons of the Church respecting Clerical Subscription as a Condition of Admission into Holy Orders, is regarded by us as not only without adequate Precedent, but without sufficient Ground of general Expediency. "3. Because we think that the passing of this Bill,  with without 641 "That the Clerical Subscription Bill now before Parliament affects the interests of the Irish branch of the Church in the same degree as it affects the interests of the English branch, and the same reasons which have rendered it desirable to give permission to the provinces of Canterbury and York to express their opinion as to any alteration of their canons and obligations apply with equal force to the Irish provinces of the United Church. "That your petitioners do not wish to oppose the progress of the aforesaid Bill, but they pray that your honourable House would be pleased to devise in your wisdom such measures as will hereafter give to the Irish clergy a power of expressing their opinion, in conjunction with the English clergy, on matters affecting the common interest of the United Church, and especially that you will preserve in its integrity the union of the Churches of England and Ireland." Geo. 29), "Save and except the knights, citizens, and burgesses elected to serve in the Parliament thereof, and save and except the Houses of Convocation duly summoned by the King's writ." 642 "The Archbishop of Canterbury bad asked my opinion relative to the Church of Ireland, and I sent to him the following letter, dated 5th March, 1860:—'My Lord Archbishop—I think the Act of Parliament proposed by the Archbishop of Cashel and Dr. Duignan to be wholly unnecessary, but I approve of the addition to the 5th Article suggested by the Lord Lieutenant (an addition relative la the mode in which Convocation was to be summoned). I approve, however, of this addition merely as it may tend to conciliate those who seem to entertain apprehensions for the security of the Irish Church, and not as thinking it in any degree requisite for that end, which is in no degree endangered by the union. A united Convocation will sufficiently unite both the Churches of England and Ireland at present and as to all future changes, if it should be ever thought expedient to make any; and, as to identification, the Churches are at present identified, not only in the leading principles of Protestantism and Episcopacy, but in doctrine, discipline, and worship. Above all things, I wish the Church of England to forbear affecting a superiority over that of Ireland, by attempting to obtain an appellate jurisdiction to the see of Canterbury." 643 quoad "The Convocation of the province of Canterbury having applied for and obtained your Majesty's licence for the purpose, has repealed the 29th canon, and in place thereof enacted a new canon, which now awaits your Majesty's sanction." "A new rule of sponsorship, new forms of prayer, and a new law of discipline, if introduced in the province of Canterbury alone, or in the provinces of Canterbury and York, to the exclusion of the Irish provinces, would disturb the uniformity of the Church and violate the spirit of the Act of Union. In such grave matters we conceive that the whole united Church is con-
 644 "Request their Graces to take such steps as to them may seem expedient to obtain the advice and concurrence of their branch of the United Church;" "As your Grace has expressed a desire to know Her Majesty's decision, Her Majesty's Government have not felt it to be their duty to advise Her Majesty to convene a general synod of the United Church of England and Ireland. They believe that no such synod ever was convened, and they are not aware that, if convened, it would have any legal power." "That the Churches of England and Ireland shall be united into one Church, and the archbishops, priests, &c, of the Churches of England and Ireland shall from time to time be summoned to and entitled to sit in convocation of the United Church in the same manner as now established in the Church of England, and the doctrine, worship, discipline, and government of the said United Church shall be preserved as now by law established for the Church of England." 645 "When his Majesty shall summon a Convocation of the Irish clergy they shall be summoned to sit in such Convocation of the United Church." "It was judged better to omit the insertion of any provisional article respecting the Convocation until the union actually took place, more particularly as his Majesty, as the head of both Churches, had the power to call such a Convocation when he pleased." 646
 MR. BRISCOE  said, this was a subject of a grave and important nature, and it might have been supposed that the House would have been attended by a much larger number of Members, The hon. Gentleman the Member for Maidstone (Mr. Buxton) regretted that the alterations made by the Bill had not been carried to a greater extent. Now he (Mr. Briscoe), had paid some attention to the subject, and he was not surprised to find that the Archdeacon of Middlesex considered that this was one of the most important measures affecting the Church since the time of Henry VIII, When it was said that it had been unanimously approved by Convocation, it seemed to be forgotten that the Bishop of Lincoln had expressed his extreme regret at seeing the words "I do willingly and  ex animo ex animo, 650 Webster's Dictionary 651 ex animo."
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to call attention to the inadequate salaries and superannuations of the outdoor officers of Customs. It would be in the recollection of the House that not along ago this subject had been brought under the notice of the House, and the narrow majority by which the Government was saved on that occasion was owing to the fact that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer held out hopes of redressing the grievances complained of. He now rose to ask what the right hon. Gentleman had done to remedy those grievances, to the existence of which so many Members of that House had testified? He wished to call the attention of the House to the case of the outdoor officers of Customs. Those persons, who were engaged in the discharge of most important and responsible duties, were the only civil servants who did not receive an annual increase in their salaries, which were most paltry and inadequate. The merchants of Liverpool had again and again complained that they ran great risk through the small-ness of the salaries of these officers, who were exposed to temptation in various way, having the employment of charging, checking, and making an estimate of the duty on goods of enormous value. In fact many officers of Customs were quietly dismissed for taking perquisites and for not enforcing the Customs regulations, although the officials did not bring them to trial, as they did not wish to make the matters public. In illustration of his contention that the outdoor officers of Customs were the most ill-paid of all civil servants, he would refer to the superannuation allowances to some of them, as set forth in the Return headed "Superannuation, Public Offices," which was laid upon the table in March last by the Government. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not think he was making an invidious selection when he called the attention of the House, in the first place, to the case of John Winter, described in the Return as "Messenger to the Chancellor of the Exchequer," who, having served the public for 27½ years, retired, at the age of 70, with a superannuation allowance of £63 per annum. He would ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer to contrast the case of his messenger with those of two outdoor officers of Customs—the first of whom, named Bailey, of Newcastle, after twenty-four years' service retired, at the age of seventy-one, with a superannua-
 672 2d. s. s. s. 673
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that the Board of Trade had been in communication with the Metropolitan Board of Works on the subject, and the Board of Works passed a Resolution on Monday last, which he would read—
 "That so long as the material raised from the river opposite the embankment works continues to be, in the opinion of the engineer, suitable for the purposes of the embankment, the engineer be instructed to allow no other material to come on to the embankment works, except for the backing of the embankment wall, the cross dams, the material required for puddling, and other necessary purposes."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the Question of his hon. Friend did not permit of being answered in that House. It could only be answered by explanations in detail of all the arrangements connected with the drawing of money and the audit of accounts in all the Departments of the public service; and such an explanation, if given by word of mouth only, would not be intelligible to the House. He would, however, give his hon. Friend a partial answer. He should be happy to give him an opportunity of considering the subject more at large, leaving it to him to determine how fur he would prosecute his investigations; for he could not imagine a more legitimate subject of inquiry than that with which his hon. Friend proposed to charge himself. He believed he should be right in saying that it was not the fact that any one system prevailed throughout the whole of the Civil Service. The payments, the accounts, the audits, of the different Departments, were differently regulated; in some cases by precise and stringent provisions of Acts of Parliament, and in others by the authority of the Department itself. In the case of the Navy, an Act of William IV. provided that an account should be made out, signed by the Accountant General of the Navy, and countersigned in the manner the Lords of the Admiralty should from time to time direct. In this instance, therefore, no question of selection by the Treasury could
 629
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not agree with his hon. Friend who had just sat down in respect of what he had described as the extravagant economy of the executive Government. His hon. Friend the Member for Truro had called attention to a very serious consideration, and he was hound to say, even speaking in the presence of his hon. Friend, that though being frequently in contest with him (Mr. Augustus Smith), and having frequently to contest his arguments, whatever might be the responsibility which attached to others, with regard to want of economy in the public expenditure, his hon. Friend was not open to the charge of having swum with the stream. He had been no party to having put forward such demands as that which was now before the House. His hon. Friend the Member for Truro, his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), and other hon. Members whom he might name, had done their duty faithfully as representatives of the people in endeavouring to check and control the public expenditure; and however it might have been his duty to oppose proposals made by those hon. Gentlemen he rendered them only justice when he said thus much as to their personal conduct and the principles which they laid down. Coming to the question before the House, he must say there was something novel in the use which the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) was making of the Appropriation Bill. It was rightly intended that in discussing it the representatives of the people should have every opportunity of checking, narrowing, and controlling the expenditure proposed by Her Majesty's Government, and that the House should have every opportunity of questioning the conduct of the Government in reference to that expenditure; but, as far as his experience went, it was a complete novelty to make use of the Appropriation Bill—
 676 677 678 679
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the object of this Bill is to give effect to the recommendations of the Royal Commission appointed at the beginning of 1864 to consider and revise the various forms of subscription and declarations required to be taken by the clergy of the Established Church. This subject of Clerical Subscription is one that has recently occupied a good deal of public attention and occasioned much discussion. Motions have have been made in both Houses of Parliament on the matter. In the House of Lords two or three years ago a Bill was proposed, the object of which was to repeal so much of the Act of Uniformity as required a declaration to be made of unfeigned assent and consent to everything contained in the Book of Common Prayer. In 1863 my hon. Friend the Member for Maidstone (Mr. Buxton) made a Motion of a more general character, asking the House to declare it expedient that the terms of clerical subscription should be relaxed. The Government met that Motion, not with a direct negative, but by the Previous Question, and that course, I think, was sanctioned by the general acquiescence of the House. They felt that in what was urged by my hon. Friend as to the number and complexity of the various forms of subscription required by law from the clergy, there was considerable force; they were not prepared to say that no alteration should take place; but, at the same time, they felt it would be inexpedient for the House to make any general declaration that the forms of subscription should be relaxed without being prepared with a specific proposal as to the forms of subscription that ought to be substituted. They also felt that before any specific alteration was proposed it was desirable that the whole subject should be considered and fully inquired into by a Commission appointed by the Crown. In conformity with that opinion Her Majesty was advised to issue a Royal Commission to consider and revise the various forms of subscription and declaration to be made by the clergy of the Church of England and Ireland on their appointment, admission,
 635 636 "I, A. B., do solemnly make the following declaration. I assent to the Thirty-nine Articles of Religion, and the Book of Common Prayer, and the ordering of bishops, priests, and deacons. I believe the doctrine of the United Church of England and Ireland as therein set forth to be agreeable to the Word of Cod, and in public prayer and administration of the Sacraments, I will use the form in the said book prescribed, and none other, except so far as shall be ordered by lawful authority." 637 638
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, he was not aware that any communication had been received from Bristol by Her Majesty's Government, and certainly his attention had not been directed to any communication made respecting the claim for the restoration of the Episcopal Residence. He was generally aware of the circumstances under which the union of the Sees was effected, but not sufficiently to express an opinion as to whether the sale of the residence purchased for Bishop Monk, and the application of the proceeds to the erection of the Episcopal Palace at Gloucester, without providing any substituted residence at Bristol, was in accordance with the spirit of the terms on which the union was made. But, on inquiry at the Ecclesiastical Commission Office, he found that there had been a Correspondence, and he believed that there would be no objection to its production.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government have received any communications from the City of Bristol, or whether their attention has been directed to any communications made by the City of Bristol to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners respecting the claim made for the restoration of an Episcopal Residence at Bristol; whether he is aware of the circumstances under which the union between the Sees of Bristol and Gloucester was effected, and whether he is of opinion that the sale of the residence purchased for Bishop Monk, in great part with money raised by taxation of the inhabitants of Bristol, and the application of the proceeds to the erection of the Episcopal Palace at Gloucester, without providing any substituted residence at Bristol, is in accordance with the spirit of the terms on which the union was made; and whether there will be any objection to produce any Correspondence which has taken place on the object? He would omit the clause "in great part with money raised by taxation of the inhabitants of Bristol," because the fact was that the City of Bristol was taxed to replace the Episcopal Residence in consequence of its destruction in the time of the Reform Bill riots, and its retention might lead to misapprehension.
 MR. CAVE  said, that he might reply to that portion of the Question which the noble Lord had not been able to answer. Boys on board the  Worcester
 MR. CAVE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Metropolitan Board of Works had complied with the requisition of the Board of Trade, as suggested in the report of Messrs. Coode and Rawlinson, that they should draw larger quantities of material for the Thames Embankment from the bed of the river; and, if not, what course he proposed to take in the matter?
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had so well put to the House the arguments on which the Bill was founded, that he should not think it necessary to prolong the discussion if it were not that he desired to say a few words in confirmation of what had fallen from his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State. He had been present at all the deliberations of the Commission down to the time when the preparation of the Report was entered on; he had been a party to the Resolutions on which that Report was founded, and he certainly should have appended his name to it but for the circumstance that when the Report was ready for signature he was in the midst of a serious illness at Rome, which incapacitated him from attending to anything in the way of business, or from having papers submitted to him; and it was not till the present week that he had been able to resume his duties in that House. He was quite ready to accept his share of responsibility for the Report on which the Bill now before the House was founded, and if it had been desirable to prolong the discussion to have stated the grounds of his approval.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I think, Sir, the subject of that application is one which is very deserving of consideration. There may be some offices in which the whole of the Department could not be allowed to have a half-holiday. The Secretary to the Treasury is in communication with the officers of the different Departments in order to see how far a half-holiday on Saturday afternoons can be made consistent with the requirements of
 634
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, it was almost impossible to estimate the beneficial occupation of the Government property in the metropolis. It was only necessary to mention Buckingham Palace, for example. Again, from Woolwich to Pimlico there
 719
 MR. PEEL  said, that the Appropriation Bill, in its present amended form, stated the amount of the various grants in figures instead of, as formerly, in words; it avoided useless repetitions of the same words, it removed from the body of the Act to the Schedule the various items; it arranged into classes the several Votes, and enabled any one readily to find the particular grant he wished to trace. The hon. Member was not justified in speaking of the paper in question as deceptive. It
 718
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not have resumed his seat without expressing his willingness to concede to the evident wish of the House. The right hon. Gentleman intimated that the objection to the measure was entirely owing to the religious clauses, but he had not stated the reasons on which he founded that opinion. Upon his (Mr. Henley's) side he had heard no objections founded upon the merits or demerits of a single clause. The religious clauses were only a small part of the Bill, but if they were so important, why had not the right hon. Gentleman brought in the Bill two or three months ago? What was to hinder him? Hon. Members would then have had an opportunity of hearing the opinion of their constituents. He did not wish to give his opinion upon any of the clauses of the Bill, but it contained five main provisions. With regard to the first of these the Gilbert Unions had a right to be heard. The next provision was the taxing power, which was now restrained by the
 724 725
 SIR BROOK BRYDGES  said, it was too late in the Session to discuss the important clauses of this Bill. There were important taxing powers in the Bill given to the Poor Law Board independently of the Guardians. These might be very proper, or they might be very improper, powers for the Poor Law Commissioners to possess; but the alterations in the law were most important. The Bill was brought forward when hon. Members could not discuss its provisions with satisfaction to their constituents, and he believed that the majority of the House were anxious that the Bill should be cut down to a mere continuance Bill.
 MR. WHITE  said, he concurred in urging on the President of the Poor Law Board to adopt this plan. He had presented a petition from the directors and hoard of guardians of Brighton praying the House not to enter upon a discussion of clauses from 9 to 18. The matters to which those clauses related could not receive adequate attention in the present Parliament, and he hoped that they would simply pass a continuance Bill.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he could not help thinking that the President of the Poor Law Board was rather too apt to assume an aggressive attitude towards the Opposition Benches. But why had not the right hon. Gentleman turned round on his "Liberal friends," as they called themselves, and attacked them for their opposition to his Bill? Instead of which the right hon. Gentleman must needs attack those who sat on the opposite side of the House, and told them they had been whipped up to oppose this Bill from religious feelings. He could tell the right hon. Gentleman such was not the case, and that hon. Members on that side were too independent to be whipped up for any such purposes. The right hon. Gentleman had entirely misinterpreted the feelings of those who sat upon the Opposition Benches. Their only reason for opposing the Bill was, that its clauses required full consider-
 728
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to make one observation, and that was that should he be a Member of the next Parliament he would be ready to give his support in carrying the clauses now omitted from the present Bill.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, When the second payment of the Lucknow Prize Money, already ordered to be distributed in India, is to be made in this country; and when a decision is likely to be come to with reference to the Kirwee Prize Money?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply to the hon. Gentleman, he would read an extract from the circular referred to. The direction given was the following: —
 "The robe issued by Government for your use is the surplice. It is the only robe which you will be expected to carry with you in the event of your serving in the field. You are, therefore, to wear it with a scarf or stole, and the hood of your academical degree, if you be a graduate of one of our Universities, as often as you officiate to troops, whether in a consecrated or unconsecrated church, a chapel-school, a lecture or other ordinary room, or in the open air."
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Bill of last Session appeared not to be sufficient for the purpose for which it was required, but he thought it would be a very strange proceeding to call upon the Government to suspend its operation. Next to the machines being good it was essential that the test
 738
 MR. CORRY , said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the policy of the Government in relation to the Naval Reserves. There was no branch of our naval organization which offered so great an inducement to short-sighted economy as our reserves of seamen and marines, and there was none, therefore, which required to be more closely watched by those who took a special interest in naval affairs. He was, however, afraid that at a time, when we had so much reason to congratulate ourselves on the formation of a valuable reserve of merchant seamen, the House might find it difficult to understand why he should think it necessary to call attention to the subject. He thought, however, that any such difficulty would disappear on a comparison between the state of the Naval Reserves in general at the present time with what it was three years ago. During this period the Royal Coast Volunteers and the Royal Naval Reserve had increased, but, concurrently with this, the Coastguard, the reserve of Marines on shore, and the reserve of man-of-war's men disposable for the service of the home ports had been reduced. Thus the irregular and imperfectly trained reserves had been increased at the expense of the regular and thoroughly trained reserves, and, as the difficulty we should experience at the commencement of a naval war would lie rather in obtaining the quality than the quantity of men that would be required, he considered this state of things to be eminently unsatisfactory. He considered it to be the more unsatisfactory because his noble Friend, in moving the Estimates, had indicated the probability of further reductions in the Coastguard and the Marines, which were by far the most
 739 740 741 "There is a limit beyond which the Marines cannot properly be increased, because it is necessary to their efficiency that they should spend a large portion of their time afloat." 742 "I should rejoice to see the Marines raised to 20,000, never to be diminished. I saw with great pain the recent reduction of 1,000 men. I regarded that as an imprudent measure." I should have no hesitation in recommending that increase as a Member of the House of Commons." "I have a still stronger reason for recommending an increase of Marines. Our present number of Marines is only commensurate with our number of seamen, and proportionate to the actual wants of the fleet; but we have, or soon shall have, a reserve of seamen of 20,000 men, but we have no corresponding reserve of Marines, and for this reason, also, I recommend an increase of 6,000 men." 743 744 745
 SIR FREDERIC SMITH  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Pontefract, If there be any valid reason for limiting the tenure of office of the Superintendents of the Royal Dockyards to five years, and whether lie will object to furnish a Return showing the length of time which each Superintendent held office since 1841. He had been acquainted since 1815 with all the dockyard superintendents employed at Chatham, and he bad never known a single instance in which the officers selected for that post were not men of distinction who had rendered good service to their country. The duties in the dockyards required their whole time and undivided attention. Even the accounts came under their supervision, and he maintained that the working of the system had been attended with rigid economy. He hoped his hon. Friend before the next Session would reconsider the rate of wages of the men, for they were obliged to live where lodgings and provisions were dear, and that he would place it upon a more equitable footing. He hoped also that the Government would not feel restricted to a period of five years for the employment of the superintendents if those gentlemen rendered good service, for no one could become acquainted with the various duties of the dockyard until after a long period of time.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, he had been requested to answer the question of the hon. Member, as it was not in the power of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for India (Sir Charles Wood) to attend that evening. The case brought before the House by the hon. Member was one that ought, he believed, to be left to the Government of India to decide. The authorities in India had laid down the conditions on which medals were to be given. The regulation on this subject was that for any military force to become entitled to the distinction of the medal, it must have been engaged in actual conflict in the field. A letter had been addressed to the Commander-in-Chief on the subject, and he had stated, in reply, that there was no rule of the service which would authorise the granting of the Indian mutiny medal to the Satpoora Field Force. The hon. Gentleman referred to the decision of the Commander-in-Chief, but he had omitted to state that the Government of India concurred in his opinion. That House was hardly in a condition to discuss the details of military operations against the mutineers, and he therefore hoped the hon. Member
 751
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought the Committee had, under the circumstances, pursued the best and most honest course. The Committee had examined many witnesses, and propositions emanated from many of them which would never be accepted by Parliament—namely, that compensation should be given to tenants for improvements made contrary to or without the sanction of the landlords. Considering that this was the end of the Session, he thought the Committee had done wisely in expressing a decided opinion on that important point. With regard to the other portions of the Act, there was no indisposition on the part of the Committee to avoid considering the details
 757
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he hoped it would not go forth to the country that the House had attempted that night to discuss the Report of the Committee or the questions which had been referred to it. For himself, he did not know its precise nature. He only knew that it had been laid on the table, and that the manner in which the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) had conducted the inquiry had been in the highest degree creditable to him. When the Report was printed, and in the hands of Members, it could be discussed; to do so then was premature. He had seen a letter in an Irish newspaper from the Chairman of the Committee, stating that it was not intended to present the Report this year, owing to the inquiry not having been completed, but that the re-appointment of the Committee would be moved next Session, with a view to resume the inquiry. What, then, was his surprise to find that the Report had been laid on the table that day. He had had no opportunity of reading the Report, and he must say he could not approve the course which had been taken by the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy).
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that his right hon. Friend, in objecting to the reduction in the number of Marines and Coastguard on shore, founded his observations on the valuable Report of the Commission on Manning the Navy which sat in 1858.
 746 747 748
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that several young surgeons had been placed on promotion on foreign stations in order to retain their services on board ship as surgeons, partly for the purpose of keeping young surgeons employed, and partly because there was more or less difficulty in filling up the places of assistant surgeons. There was so much employment elsewhere, that they did not keep the number complete. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the Admiralty were in great want of assistant surgeons, but that was not the case; and the Admiralty did not think it necessary to take any steps for the purpose of giving additional facilities for the entry of assistant surgeons into the service.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, he was delighted to hear from the hon. Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) with his large experience, that he looked with favour on the religious clauses of this Bill. It was a sanction of an important principle for which the Roman Catholics would be very grateful. It had been said that the Session was so advanced that the measure could not be properly discussed. He did not concur in that opinion. At all events he was willing to accept what he desired whenever it was offered to him; and he trusted that his right hon. Friend would go on and try and pass the Bill. It contained clauses of great importance, affecting deeply the religious liberties of large numbers of the most destitute persons in the country, and which clause had undergone the careful consideration of a Select Committee of that House. Why delay for another year the consideration of these important matters? Next year there would be a new Parliament, with new Members and with new subjects for consideration. The management of workhouses varied in different places. Roman Catholics had great complaints of that management in many places, especially in the metropolis. Bricklayers and dock labourers flocked to London. Without them the metropolis would be wanted in its magnitude and in its present commerce. But having done their work they died, and their families were often forced into the workhouses, where, for want of instruction, they were led away from the religion of their forefathers. He regretted that so many hon. Members connected with the metropolis had spoken in favour of delay, because it was in the metropolitan workhouses that the children of Roman Catholic parents were most frequently perverted from the faith in which they had been brought up. This Bill would meet the evil, and he trusted the right hon. Gentleman would proceed with it. Thank God! there had been throughout the debate such an enunciation of liberal feeling towards the Roman Catholics in workhouses
 727
 MR. O'REILLY  said, the original proposal was for a public testing machine. The clause for granting licences to private testing machines had been subsequently introduced. If he was correct in that statement, it should be taken in connection with the remark of the right hon. Gentleman that security such as was sought for could only be obtained by a public test. A private test was useless. But that was the very question, whether private persons should stamp the Hall-mark on their goods or not. What was wanted was that the stamp should be really what it professed to be, a warrant to the public that the machines did really test. The inspectors of the Board of Trade stated that a great many of the machines which they had tested could be relied on. He would suggest that if the property of private persons were to be licensed there should be such a system of public inspection as should show not only that the machine was once good, but that it continued to be good.
 MR. AUGUSTUS SMITH  said, that the Bill was a great improvement on former Appropriation Bills, which, generally speaking, had not been printed, and were drawn up in a manner difficult to be understood, He trusted that the improvement would be extended to the public accounts. At present there were no means of making a satisfactory comparison between one year and another. As far as he could make out, it seemed that there was a permanent increase to the amount of £141,000 in the Consolidated Fund. The sums paid for superannuations were actually one-fourteenth of the whole Revenue of the year. No less than £5,000,000 a year were spent in superannuation and retiring allowances in the various Departments of the public service. A paper had been put into the hands of Members that morning, in which the Government took credit for a reduction of £155,895 in the Civil Service Estimates. That reduction appeared to him to be deceptive.
 MR. NEATE  said, he was prepared to give his humble support to the Bill as it stood. Especially he approved of Clause 22, which extended the limits to which children would be sent for the purpose of education.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, it was evident that there was a sort of tacit agreement between the Roman Catholics and the Poor Law Board to supersede the guardians in the management of unions: and there was a rivalry between the two sides of the House in making concessions to the Roman
 729
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he thought he was meeting the wish of hon. Gentlemen opposite by limiting the continuance of the Board to one year, and "to the end of the then next Session of Parliament." That was really a continuance for two years.
 MR. C.P. VILLIERS  said, he adhered to the opinion he had expressed that the Bill had been opposed by hon. Gentlemen opposite solely on the ground of the religious clauses. He had, however, no help for it except, very unwillingly, to submit to the proposal that had been made. With regard to the clause which rendered persons liable to be punished who were relieved out of the workhouse and who refused to perform task-work, he must remind the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) that the clause merely gave the same power in regard to
 730
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the noble Lord (Lord Fermoy) stated, not very courteously, that this Bill was one of deception, because, professing to be one of continuance, it contained many other clauses. That statement was wholly unfounded. The title of the Bill was "A Bill to continue the Poor Law Board for a limited period, and to make certain Amendments in the law regulating the Relief of the Poor." The noble Lord was a Member of the Committee, which sat for three years, and he could not affirm that the introduction of the Bill was in any sense a surprise. The Report of the Committee was sent to every Board of Guardians in the country; and the guardians had considered the Report and taken action on it, and had presented petitions to the House, and memorials to the Poor Law Board. They had singled out those portions of it to which they objected, namely, the payment of priests out of the rates, and any interference with the discretion of the guardians in the education of the children. Those objections had been respected; but no one had objected to those parts of the Report which were embodied in the Bill. The real objection to the Bill was to prevent the Roman Catholic clergy from having access to the workhouses, and giving instruction to their own people. The Roman Catholics some time since having complained that an Act of Parliament having given
 722 723
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, the first question of the hon. Gentleman was exactly the same as that asked on the 28th of March. He had no information then to give as to when the payment would take place. He was surprised himself at the delay, and on the 31st of March he wrote to India on the subject, but he had not yet received any reply, and it was therefore out of his power to say when the distribution would be made. He wished he could persuade hon. Gentlemen that he had nothing to do with the duty of distribution; that rested with the Treasury.
 731
 SIR CHARLES WOOD , in reply, said, he had had hopes of being able to make the statement upon Indian finances on Monday but he was quite unable to do so, and he must therefore postpone it till Thursday. With regard to Sir Charles Trevelyan's statement, he thought it would not be
 732
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether a Circular or Memorandum or other document has lately been issued by the War Department or the Horse Guards, forbidding any of Her Majesty's Military Chaplains from officiating or preaching in the usual black gown, and requiring them to wear the surplice exclusively on all such occasions from the date of such Order; and, if so, what is the Ecclesiastical Authority who is responsible for having recommended the adoption of that course?
 LORD FERMOY  said, the inhabitants of the metropolis had come very badly out of the negotiation as it stood; and the Amendment would make matters still worse.
 LORD FERMOY  said, that this Bill was, on the face of it, a deception. It was described as a Poor Law Continuance Bill, yet of all the twenty-four clauses only one, the first, enacted the continuance of the Poor Law Board. The other clauses excited much difference of opinion both in and out of that House. The 24th clause declared that the Bill might be "cited and described for all purposes as 'the Poor Law Amendment Act of 1865,'" and that was exactly what the Bill was. It was impossible for his right hon. Friend to carry the Bill in its present shape, and he would suggest that the Bill should be limited to a single clause, continuing the Poor Law Board for one year. The question involved in the religious clauses alone would keep them there for a fortnight or three weeks, and it was too important a question to be hurried through the House, fie would move, as an Amendment to the Motion—
 "That, in the opinion of this House, the provisions of the Bill should be limited to the continuance of the powers of the Poor Law Board for one year."
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, before this discussion closes, I wish to say a very few words. Whether this discussion will be very useful, seeing that it has been brought on without notice, and that the evidence is
 759 760
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he must for himself indignantly repudiate the assertion of the President of the Poor Law Board that this Bill was opposed on anti-Roman Catholic grounds. All that the Roman Catholics could justly demand would have been given them by the order which the Duke of Richmond, with the consent of Mr. Sotheron Estcourt, had proposed to issue; and now the right hon. Gentleman, having been in office for six years and done nothing, proposed to hurry a Bill through Parliament at the eve of a general election, to do what would have been done by the Duke of Richmond's order. The right hon. Gentleman had, after all, left out the best
 726
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he thought it was somewhat irregular to discuss a Report not yet in the hands of Members, and evidence which was not yet printed; but as a Member of the Committee he completely bore out the statement of his hon. Friend (Mr. Maguire) respecting the letter referred to, which was thought the most convenient mode of notifying to persons wishing to be examined what it was supposed would be the course taken by the Committee. He regretted that the Committee had not pursued that course—reporting the evidence without any expression of opinion, and leaving a future Parliament to take what steps it pleased in the matter. The Committee received valuable evidence, on which a measure might be founded in a future Session, with the view of amending the Act which was the subject of investigation. In such case great benefit would result to the land tenantry of Ireland.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would not follow his hon. and gallant Friend into all the questions which he had raised, nor would he attempt to revive the debate which had taken place last week upon the Motion of the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely). With regard to that debate he would merely say that he would take an opportunity before the House rose to lay some papers upon the table, and to make a statement on the subject. The Return as to the
 752
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that if the Amendment were carried it would negative the Motion to go into Committee, and that therefore it would be impossible to pass even that part of the Bill which would continue the Poor Law Board.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the Report of the Select Committee on the Tenure and Improvement of Land Act of 1860, popularly termed "the Cardwell Act" which had been laid on the table that evening was of extreme importance; and, looking to the fact that this was the last opportunity which Irish Members would have of offering any remarks upon the subject, he wished to say a few words. The Select Committee to which he referred was appointed on the Motion of the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) and in moving for it his hon. Friend said that the principle of the Act of 1860, that under no circumstances should a tenant receive compensation without the consent of the landlord, was wrong. He, therefore, asked the House to reconsider the Act for the purpose of amending it. The proceedings of the Committee were published in all the Irish newspapers, special reporters had come over from Ireland to do so, and hon. Gentlemen who had not the honour of being appointed on the Committee attended its sittings, and took the liveliest interest in its proceedings. Members of the Com-
 753 Nation 754 in toto
 MR. HENNESSY  asked that the Report should be read by the Clerk, as it contained some important recommendations.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the Report of Mr. Galloway and Mr. Grey to the Board of Trade on the Chain Cables and Anchors Act of 1864, which was laid upon the table of the House 8th of March last. He himself had introduced a Bill in 1863 for testing chain cables and anchors He had originally taken up the question because his own experience had led him to the conclusion that it was expedient that
 733 "As regards the Act itself we find that it is, with one or two exceptions, looked on and received as a boon. It was represented to us that it will he the means of raising the cable trade from what is described as the present lamentable condition, and that it will he of immense value to the honest maker in the foreign trade. We have been shown specimens of bad iron, almost resembling plateglass in brittleness, that has been used in making chains to meet the market, and we have been shown good iron that may be used, and if used that will make a chain guaranteed to stand 15 per cent beyond the Admiralty proof. We were told repeatedly that the honest maker now sees his way to making a really good chain at a profit, without fear of being undersold by a bad article made by a small maker. The great majority of chain-makers also object strongly to any maker being allowed to test his own cable for the purpose of giving a certificate of public proof. And many makers who intend to go to the expense of making their machines perfect have expressed their determination not to take out a licence, but to have all their work tested at a public machine. Many chain cable makers expressed a hope that the committee of  Lloyd's 734 Register
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  seconded the Motion. He said some of the largest parishes in the metropolis had petitioned against the Bill, and the House had, he thought, some reason to complain of the indecent haste with which the President of the Poor Law Board attempted to force the Bill through at the fag-end of the Session. Why had it not been brought forward sooner, when it would have been a charity to find the House something to do?
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the objections were not confined to the religious clauses. That morning he received a communication from the Bermondsey Board of Guardians, who objected to clauses from 16 to 19 inclusive, not one of which referred to religion.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he could not tell with what object his hon. Friend had introduced this subject to the House. The Report had not been read by hon. Members, the evidence was not before the House, and save from hearsay his hon. Friend must be quite ignorant of all the transactions. It would be most impolitic at so late a period of the Session to discuss so grave and important a subject. His hon. Friend had referred to a letter which appeared in an Irish paper which held out a promise that the Government would bring in a Bill next year. Now, he was the writer of that letter, and he wrote
 755 756
 MR. C. MOORE  said, he must express his belief that the Report of the Committee would be received with dissatisfaction and disappointment in Ireland.
 MR. STANILAND  said, he rose to call attention to the claims of the Satpoora Field Force and of the Goa Frontier Field Force (portions of the Indian Army) to the Indian Mutiny Medal, the Government of India having rejected these claims. He regretted to be obliged to bring forward the subject in the absence of the Secretary of State for India, but he hoped that the right hon. Baronet would not deem it discourteous on his part if he could not at that period of the Session defer doing so any longer. He had not the slightest personal interest in the matter, and in calling attention to it he was actuated only by a sense of duty, and a desire to see justice done to an honourable body of men who had fought gallantly and success-
 749 750
 MR. M'MAHON  said, he thought that the House was under obligation to the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) for calling attention to the Report of the Committee. It was the most important topic, as far as Ireland was concerned, that could be brought before the House. The Resolutions of the Committee were substantially what he expected they would be, and instead of sanctioning a measure of tenant-right the Committee produced this abortion of a suggestion—that the Bill of 1860 should be amended. Therefore, the principle announced by the Committee was that no improvement could be made in Ireland without the consent of the landlord. This showed clearly the folly of the course pursued by the tenantry of Ireland in reducing their claims from day to day till
 758
 MR. BLACKBURN  said, it was intended to maintain this Fire Brigade by a local rate, at not exceeding a halfpenny in the pound, but instead of extending the rate to Government property, in which there would doubtless be difficulty, the sum of £10,000 per annum was to be paid on account of the national property in the metropolis. That was assuming it to be of the annual value of £4,800,000, or one-fourth of the whole rateable property of the metropolis. He could not admit the accuracy of this calculation, and in order that the same law should apply to national as to private property, he should move an Amendment to that effect.
 MR. HUMBERSTON  said, he had the honour of attending a deputation to the Board of Trade with the view of obtaining a postponement of the time at which the Act was fixed to come into operation. The right hon. Gentleman on that occasion was good enough to assent to the request that a Bill should be introduced in order to postpone the commencement of the existing Act to the first of January. That deputation represented the views of gentlemen in the trade at Chester, Liverpool, Glasgow, Staffordshire, and Newcastle, and those who were present were satisfied that the postponement would take place in accordance with what was stated at the time. They felt aggrieved, therefore, that an alteration in the intention of the right
 737
 MR. LONGFIELD  said, he thought the Committee had acted wisely and honestly according to their rights, and beneficially, also, to their country, in making the Report they had done. He had not gone through the evidence, hut he was much struck by one thing. The Roman Catholic Bishop of Cloyne had said he thought there were only two courses to be pursued on that question—the one being to give a large and ample measure of tenant-right, and the other being to put an end to the subject altogether. The Committee had adopted the last of these two courses. It had made its Report in a way that would put an end to the question of tenant-right for ever. It would be the guide to Parliamentary legislation for this generation, and would prevent the tenants from looking to tenant-right as a sort of panacea which was to make them rich and happy. In his opinion, the hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) deserved credit lather than censure for calling the attention of the House and the country to the matter. The country would now know what they had to expect, and could make their arrangements accordingly, and though he might not agree with the Report if it only put an end to futile hopes of legislation by future Parliaments, he believed it would do good service to the public.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought that as the Act was to come into operation on the 1st of July it would be advisable to wait to see how it worked before introducing into it any Amendments. The Board of Trade were doing all that lay in their power to abide by the provisions of the law, and did not license chain makers, but the testing machine itself, which it was authorised to do. It was the duty of the Board to satisfy themselves by inspection that the machinery used for testing chain cables was efficient in order that the cables tested by the machine might receive the proof stamp. They had certainly licensed the firm of Brown, Lennox, and Co., who had a testing machine which was their own property, and if they had not done so there would be no testing machine in London, although the Act would so soon come into force. Their machine had been found to be most effective, and Messrs. Lloyd had engaged to make such alterations as was requisite to provide an effective machinery also. His
 735 736
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had to complain of the burden which the measure would cast upon the taxpayers of this country. It was proposed to give to a Colonial Governor who had had a salary of £5,000, a pension of £1,000 after four years' service; a Governor who had been in receipt of a salary of £2,500, would obtain a pension of £750 for life; while Colonial Governors who had enjoyed smaller salaries were to receive proportionate retiring pensions. These pensions would be
 761 sub silentio.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the House was evidently unwilling to listen to the details of this matter, which he was quite prepared to go into. He should, therefore, confine himself to an expression of opinion that, as a matter of gratitude, the Government ought to have seized the opportunity of doing justice to troops who had stood by us in the crisis of danger, prevented our being driven to the coast, and thus saved our Indian empire.
 MR. VANSITTART  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House a copy of Sir Charles Trevelyan's Financial Statement previous to making his own on Monday next?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he could not approve the manner in which that matter had been brought forward that evening, because the Report had only been agreed upon that afternoon, and the House had had no opportunity of seeing the evidence or the various propositions which had come before the Committee. The hon. Member for Mallow thought it an advantage that the Report had been brought forward on that occasion, because it would put an end to the questions raised in the Committee; but although the Report represented the opinion of the majority of the Committee, yet it had been only agreed to that day by a majority of three. There had been a strong expression of dissent in the Committee, and the matter was one which must be discussed in the next Session of Parliament.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think the House would have been satisfied if his right hon. Friend, after so long an inquiry by the Select Committee on Poor Laws, had proposed a mere continuance of the powers of the Poor Law Board for a year without embodying in such a measure some of the most important recommendations of the Committee. His right hon. Friend had withdrawn some of the clauses to which considerable objection had been made as requiring further consideration, and had hoped that those now left in the Bill might have been thought reasonable enough to pass without any considerable delay or discussion. It was clear, however, that there was on the part of the House a great indisposition to go on with the clauses during the short remaining period of the Session. It was impossible at the present hour (3 o'clock) to make any progress with the clauses in Committee, One great advantage had been gained by the discussion. They had heard from every Gentleman who had addressed the House a concurrence in those clauses the object of which was to give the Roman Catholic children in workhouses these religious rights and privileges to which they were justly entitled. Seeing the evident indisposition of the House to go into the consideration of the clauses this Session, and being of opinion that the measure could not be passed during the short remaining period of the Session, he would advise his right hon. Friend, having done his duty in bringing in this measure, and having made the best fight be could, to consent to limit the Bill this Session to a mere Continuance Bill. If his noble Friend would withdraw his Amendment, the House might go into Committee and pass the Continuance Clause, and the other clauses could then be withdrawn. The Government would, if they were in office, propose a measure containing those clauses as soon as possible after Parliament should meet, and he trusted that the expression of opinion which they had that day heard would insure the favourable consideration and adoption of them in the next Session of Parliament.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, on behalf of the hon. and gallant Member for Queen's County (Colonel Dunne), he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty the reason why Surgeons in the Royal Navy have been recently appointed to ships to do Assistant Surgeons' duty, and if it be owing to a scarcity of the latter Officers, or that there are no Candidates on the list for admission into the Medical Service of the Navy; and if the Admiralty have taken any steps to remove so great an evil?
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  said, it was his duty, having presented a great number of petitions against the Bill, to represent to his right hon. Friend (Mr. Villiers) that in the interest of the Poor Law Board itself it would be extremely imprudent to press the clauses of the Bill, with the exception of the continuance clause. The other matters should be discussed in the New Parliament.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY  seconded the Motion.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, it was exceedingly inconvenient to come to Parliament from time to time to continue the Board. Why did not the right hon. Gentleman extend the term from one to three years?
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he must remind the House that this debate might have been greatly shortened if the President of the Board had not thrown out the taunts he had. For himself he would say that all the right hon. Gentleman's taunts were entirely without foundation. The right hon. Gentleman intimated that hon. Members on the Opposition Benches had been summoned there in large numbers to defeat the Bill. He for one had received no such summons. It was still more unfounded to assert that his hon. Friends met this Bill in a spirit of bigotry. He agreed that Roman Catholic children should be fully open to religious teaching in the tenets in which they had been brought up, and that if this teaching could not be obtained in the workhouse, it should be procured out of it. Would the right hon. Gentleman tell the House whether he meant to go into the Bill as it stood, or limit it to a continuance Bill? If the former, he would find hon. Members on the opposite side of the House willing to consider the clauses, and that not in a spirit of bigotry.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman not to go on with the Bill.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, he objected to the Bill, and he trusted that the President of the Poor Law Board would not refuse to accede to what was evidently the general feeling of the House. He would not object to the Speaker leaving the Chair, in order that the first clause might be carried. But the other clauses of the Bill were of great importance, and would lead to a great deal of discussion. The Bill proposed to deal with the Gilbert Unions. A few years ago the House would not agree to a dissolution of these unions, and it was rather hard that they should be put under the power of the Poor Law Board without having a word to say on their own behalf.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What progress is being made in insuring lives, and in purchasing Government Annuities under the Act 27  & Vict.
 LORD NAAS  said, he thought the House ought to feel indebted to his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Hugh Cairns) for bringing under notice not so much any particular case as the principles on which the force ought to be managed. He wholly dissented from the view taken by Colonel Wood as to what should be the duties of the constabulary authorities in such a case. Colonel Wood appeared to think that if an offence punishable by law was committed by a constable, he was not to take any steps in the matter unless it was brought before a court of justice by some other person. This was an entire departure from the principles on which the discipline of the force had been conducted hitherto, and he believed that if the opinion of Sir Pun-can M'Gregor were taken, it would be found to differ wholly from the view taken by Colonel Wood. In case of any dereliction of duty by a constable, the constabulary authorities themselves should be the persons to bring the case under the cognizance of a court of justice at the earliest opportunity, and not leave it to any persons who might choose to prefer a complaint. It would be most unfortunate if it should go
 835
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was of opinion that no act of injustice whatever had been committed. Prior to the year 1864 there was no contract for making the clothing of the Irish constabulary, the cloth being sent in what was termed a "basted" state to the various stations, and an allowance given to the men for making up the clothing. The attention of the Government had been called to that state of things by Mr. Tate, who undertook to cut out and make up the clothing for the same price as that allowed to the constabulary for making it up. That proposal, which, if successful, would have proved a considerable saving to the public, appeared so advantageous that the War Department, having had considerable and favourable experience of Mr. Tate as a contractor for army clothing, adopted it for one year. It was quite true that the clothing of the constabulary was not supplied in August, as it should have been by the terms of the contract, but it was only fair to Mr. Tate to state that, although the Department had no reason to be altogether satisfied with the performance of the contract, he believed that Mr. Tate considered he had very good reason for the delay, inasmuch as he did not receive at the proper time the necessary "size roll" from the officers of the constabulary. He (the Marquess of Hartington) admitted that the contract had not been carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Government, and they were now about to receive contracts, without reverting to the old practice, for the clothing of the constabulary. The patterns for clothing would be exhibited in Dublin shortly, and the competition would be perfectly open.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he condemned the measure as affording no real relief or comfort to the minds of many clergymen of the Established Church, who entertained conscientious scruples in respect to the forms of subscription hitherto adopted. The Bill in no way dealt with the Articles of the Church or with those of its formularies and ceremonies, which urgently required re-adjustment. Among the latter were the Baptismal Service, the Office for the Visitation of the Sick, the Catechism, and the Burial Service, parts of which were most objectionable, not to Nonconformists merely, but to many excellent clergymen of the Established Church. But what was still the language of the heads of the Church? Did they hold out any hope that these questions should be dealt with and settled? No; they said they could not devise another or a better form of Services, and consequently clergymen would still have to read a Burial Service which in some cases must be most revolting to them, when they considered what the professions, the principles, and the moral life of the deceased had been. The Romanist practices indulged in by many clergymen receiving Protestant pay were obnoxious to the public. But this Bill would not afford any relief to those who objected to these fantastic displays, and who desired that they should be put an end to. He deplored the way in which Parliament treated these questions, and feared that it would bring heavy reproach upon them as legislators in the eyes of posterity. He would offer no opposition to the Speaker leaving the chair; but there was one notice of Amendment given by the hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin to which he could not help adverting. That Amendment declared that the Queen's Majesty was, under God, the only Supreme Governor of this realm, as well in all spiritual or ecclesiastical things as temporal. He thought that Amendment would, if carried, excite throughout the United Kingdom the most determined hostility. He believed in one head of the Church—Jesus Christ—who was its sole governor and head, whether on earth or in heaven. To Him alone the Protestantism of this country would yield obedience and subjection. He did not oppose this Bill, but he thought the paltry and unworthy compromise which it made would yield no satisfaction to the minds of those for whom it was intended.
 MR. ROLT  said, considerable doubt was entertained by some clergymen as to the effect of the words at the end of the declaration, "except so far as shall be ordered by lawful authority." It had been suggested that the exception was necessary to provide for the occasional prayers which were ordered by the Queen in Council on fast or thanksgiving days, or on any emergency. That was his own opinion, and if the Government would state that that was the object of the exception, the doubt which had been expressed on the subject would be removed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not think the words liable to the objection stated. He did not know whether the hon. and learned Gentleman had read a very valuable paper appended to the Report of the Commissioners which had been drawn up by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), and which gave a most admirable history of all the declarations on this subject which had been required to be taken from time to time, the writer being in favour of one uniform and simple declaration. This part of the declaration had been drawn up very carefully. The words were limited to the occasions mentioned by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Rolt), and he did not think they were liable to any real objection.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the view of his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Rolt) entirely agreed with that of the Commissioners.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must express his regret that the Commissioners had recommended any alteration in the declaration without an amendment in the law of simony. The alteration proposed was that the person taking the declaration had made no payment or compact which to the best of his knowledge was "simoniacal." These words would offer a loophole to a robust conscience and a trap to a tender conscience. He could not help thinking that it was better to retain the former language of the declaration than to alter it in so objectionable a manner. He begged, accordingly, to move that the old wording be restored, not with a view in
 840
 MR. NEATE  said, he concurred with much that had been said by the hon. Member for Devizes, but thought it would be better to omit all reference to simony. Simony had been extended to acts which were not originally simoniacal, and he thought the punishment for simony might safely be left to the penalty of forfeiture, and the provisions of the statute of Elizabeth. The word "simony" had been not only misapplied hut fraudulently applied by the canonists, and he, for one, had always been of opinion that it would be better for all parties if vacant livings could be sold, just in the same way that reversions to livings not vacant were sold under the existing system.
 MR. LYGON  said, he had never been able to comprehend the exact reason why the alteration was made. So far from preventing clergymen from obtaining a living by unworthy means, it left the offence, if it existed, to be defined, not by certain well known rules, but according to the conscience of the individual. It was admitted that the law of simony was in an unsatisfactory state, and the declaration, as it stood, presented a great snare to persons of tender consciences. If the hon. Member for Devizes pressed his Amendment to a division he should vote for it.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the question was really one of words. The proposed declaration was in substance the same as the existing declaration. The proposed declaration was intended to meet persons whose scruples were excessive, and who might say, "The matter on which I am asked to make a declaration is not simoniacal so far as my knowledge is concerned, but how do I know whether in law it may be deemed simoniacal or not?" The Commissioners thought that to meet such persons' objections the declaration ought merely to require an averment that nothing had taken place which, to the best of then-knowledge, was simoniacal. Refusing to speak as to a matter of law about which they were imperfectly informed, they were quite prepared to declare that "to their knowledge" there had been nothing simoniacal in connection with the transaction.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could confirm the statement of the hon. and lerrned Gentleman as to the reasons inducing the Commissioners to assent to the alteration.
 841
 MR. SELWYN  said, that when the Amendment of the hon. Member for De-vises was disposed of, words could be added to the declaration preserving the common form, according to which the declarant spoke "to the best of his knowledge and belief."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would accept the suggestion.
 LORD HENLEY  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the House going into Committee, but he did not think that the passing of Continuance Acts was the way to get rid of these turnpike trusts. The Committee which sat upon this subject thought it quite feasible to abolish turnpikes altogether. They were an unfair and inconvenient mode of collecting money, pressed unequally upon different places, and were very uneconomical in working. The whole of the toll income collected under turnpike trusts was £1,043,185, and to collect this amount 4,400 toll-gates were maintained. The annual expense of each bar must be something like £25, so that the total expense was £110,000, or more than 10 per cent upon the whole toll income collected. In the present Act only eleven trusts were mentioned which were actually intended to expire, and, as there were nearly 1,100 trusts altogether, a very considerable time would elapse in getting rid of these if they were only abolished at the slow rate of eleven a year. He wanted to know why 160 trusts which were out of debt were not abolished and the roads thrown on the parishes. He hoped that during the recess this subject would be considered by the Home Office, and that in another year either the Government or some influential Member would bring in a Bill which would put an end to the obnoxious system of turnpikes.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he should again move, as an Amendment, the addition of the words "also an Act 5  Geo. 845
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that the trusts on the north of the Thames were not abolished before their debt was paid off. He maintained that the Bill was in accordance with the legislation affecting the trusts on the north side of the river, and equitable as between the public and private individuals. He regretted that the hon. and learned Gentleman was not satisfied with what had been done by the Home Office in regard to this trust. The trust was indebted to the extent of £2,000, the debt originally being £12,000. An arrangement was made by which the existing debt was to be paid off at the rate of £500 a year, and if the trustees were advised to come to Parliament for a Bill, the effect would be to increase the debt. He was prepared to insert that trust in the schedule, but he insisted on the understanding that the matter might be considered and dealt with by a Committee of Parliament next year according to its merits.
 COLONEL PENNANT  said, that the aggregate debt had been diminished from £9,000,000 to £4,000,000. There was no instance of a debt on a turnpike trust being swept away by a Select Committee of that House.
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, that through the mismanagement of individuals having control of the matter, the money which had been borrowed on the security of the tolls, instead of having been gradually repaid, still remained as a charge upon the tolls, and it was now seriously proposed that Parliament should pay off the claim. He should not divide the Committee upon the question, but he trusted that the Government would take good security for the fulfilment of the engagement. He could not understand why the country should be called on to make good the losses caused by errors of judgment on the part of turnpike trustees. Everybody advancing money on turnpike trusts knew that the security was limited to twenty or thirty years. The
 846
 MR. COX  said, he advised the acceptance of the Government offer. He objected to a different system of legislation taking place with regard to turnpike trusts on the south side of the Thames to what had taken place on the north side of the Thames.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, that he also advised the acceptance. As far as his constituents were concerned they were divided. The toll-payers liked the Bill; those who would have to pay in future disapproved of it.
 MR. LOCKE  said, what he understood the hon. Gentleman to propose was, that the turnpike trust, of the Woolwich and Greenwich lower road should be put into the schedule, and that next year he would not take it out, and that when a Bill should be brought in by the trustees of the road, as was done this year, he would not recommend them to withdraw it, and then put it into the exception clause. The effect of the arrangement, as he understood it, was, that for one year, and for one year only, the trust was to remain, and that the Government would have nothing to do with it next year, but would leave the trustees to bring in a Bill to be decided upon by Parliament. That would carry out what was proposed by the Home Office last year. On that understanding he was willing to accede to the proposal, but he should have preferred an Amendment declaring that the trust should, unless revised by special Act of Parliament, be abolished on the 1st of August in next year.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, the circum-
 847
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to call attention to the condition of the prisoners who might be committed under the authority of the Bill. The power of commitment was unlimited. He supposed that the prisoners would come under the category of County Court or fraudulent debtors; and, if so, their condition would be almost penal. He trusted, therefore, that the right hon. Baronet at the head of the Home Department would make some regulation by way of safeguard on the subject.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would like to know what would be the cost to the public of the engagements in this Act, and the amount of the pensions which would accrue under it. According to the Colonial Office Lists it appeared we had thirty-two Governors who derived salaries varying from £800 to £10,000 per annum, and twelve lieutenant-governors and presidents administering government with salaries varying from £500 to £1,800. It appeared to him to be rather late in the day to bring in a Bill of this sort. We had gone on hitherto without the machinery which it proposed, and he was quite sure that if there had been any absolute or pressing necessity for it, a scheme would long ago have been brought forward, because these Governors belonged to a class which had always plenty of friends.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in deference to the opinions which had been expressed, he was quite willing to allow the question of appeal to remain at large, and see how the system worked.
 LORD NAAS  said, that the Bill had come down from the Lords, but as it appeared that it would meet with considerable opposition in that House its promoters had no wish to proceed with it during the present Session.
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD  said, in reply, that in March last the Poor Law Board received a request from the Board of Guardians of the Highworth Union complaining of the neglect of their medical officer, and asking that an inquiry might be instituted into his conduct. Upon a review of the evidence it appeared that, although the visits of the medical officer were not frequent, his conduct did not require any particular censure. His assistant did not possess any legal qualification, and the Board pointed out the impropriety of his conduct in employing such a person, and a copy of the letter was sent to the Board of Guardians. It was not customary for the Board to inquire whether their directions had been carried out, as it was presumed that the Guardians would act upon them. He believed that no further complaint had been made respecting Dr. Kennard, but if any dissatisfaction should hereafter arise it would be the duty of the Board to make further inquiry.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he could not agree with the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White) that it was rather late in the day to introduce such a Bill. In his opinion it was rather early in the day to retrace our colonial policy by imposing on the taxpayers of this country the payment of a portion of the salaries which the colonies ought to pay to their Governors. He knew very well that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) would tell him that the Governors stood in a different category to all other civil servants, and that while performing a service to the colonies, they also performed a distinct service to the mother country, but the answer was not satisfactory. He did not wish to impede the Bill, but he should enter his protest against it. If we were asked to take this first retrograde step, he hoped Parliament would not be asked next year to take another, and to pay a portion of the salaries of other colonial officers. There was no reason why we should not do for the Colonial Secretaries, for instance, what we now intended to do for the Governors. The Colonial Secretaries frequently acted for the Governors, and had as good a claim. In fact, he did not see why, according to the principle of this Bill, we should not go
 843
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in answer to the hon. Member for Aberdeen (Colonel Sykes), that there was no confusion between the two clauses referred to by him. That the first clause simply defined what a first-class pension should be, and was not otherwise operative at all. The 4th clause was operative, and enabled the Secretary of State to give that first-class pension in the case of three classes—where a man has served eighteen years; where a man has served twenty-five years, at least ten of which must have been passed as Governor, and the rest in the Civil Service; and where a man has served fifteen years and been permanently disabled in the course of the discharge of his duty. The words were perfectly plain. The period at which a pension was to be granted was either upon attaining the minimum age of sixty years length of service being the chief qualification, or earlier in the single case of a man being permanently disabled by illness in the discharge of his duties. With regard to the question asked by his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton (Mr. White), as he could not tell who would cease to be employed and at what particular period, he could not say what the precise extent of the burden to be borne by the country would be. By the first operation of the Bill a change would be imposed of much less than the £10,000 a year referred to in the printed correspondence, and that was not a very serious burden to be laid upon the public. With respect to the remarks of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley), he would content himself with saying that the service which a Governor rendered to the mother country would make so small a charge as was imposed by the Bill justifiable. The principle upon which he defended the Bill was this— nemo tenetur ad impossibilia, because, you 844
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must protest against the idea of apportioning a certain number of policemen according to the religious sentiments of a town. Did the hon. and learned Gentleman mean that the Presbyterians who drew the  Regium Donum
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member for the King's County (Mr. Hennessy) said a few words on this subject, and the hon. Member for Dungarvan (Mr. Maguire) replied. Although the question of the Irish constabulary was properly brought before the House I do not think that the subject-matter under discussion now—the tenure of land—can be said to relate to the third reading of the Appropriation Bill. Therefore, to pursue this discussion further would be out of order.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that before the Chief Secretary replied he wished to refer to another subject. The House was aware that a conversation took' place on Friday relative to the Report of the Committee on the Tenure and Improvement of Land in Ireland. He wished to know whether the Government intended to inflict upon themselves the trouble—he would not say the disgrace—of embodying in a Bill the Report of the Committee. The House had been told that a measure would be brought in, if not by the Government, yet by the Chairman of the Committee, carrying into effect the recommendations of that Committee. He would recommend the Government not to take that course, because the Report was in direct opposition to the evidence and to the only sensible plan of adjustment that could ever be adopted for the settlement of the question. The Committee proposed to perpetuate the altogether useless Act of 1860, and recommended that the principle of that Act should not be interfered with. That measure had never been of the slightest advantage to the tenant-farmer of Ireland, no amendment of it would give any satisfaction. The Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell) expressed a decided opinion the other night that the Committee had done a great service in terminating the tenant-right agitation in Ireland. He denied that the action of the Committee had been such as to effect that result. He was, on the contrary, convinced that the extraordinary conclusion to which the Committee had so suddenly arrived would supply an additional incentive to agitation on the subject, and that a
 829
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, his hon. Friend (Mr. Hennessy) had endeavoured most persistently, without any means of forming an accurate opinion, and although no Motion on the subject was before the House, to fill the minds of the Irish people with discontent, and convince them that there was no possible chance of getting anything like justice upon the tenant-right question from this House. He had endeavoured to represent that it was impossible so to improve the Act of 1860 as to do any appreciable good in Ireland. Now, he utterly denied this, and did so on far higher authority than that of his hon. Friend., O'Connell was inclined, if he could not gel" a whole loaf, to take half; and he denied that his hon. Friend had sufficient know ledge of the proceedings of the Committee, or of the evidence taken before it, to assert with anything like authority that even though Mr. Cardwell's Act still remained in force it was not possible to make it a very valuable and easily worked Act. He was opposed to the principle of the Act, but he believed it might he enormously improved to the advantage of the country. Mr. Curling had distinctly agreed with Mr. Cardwell and a majority of the Committee; hut Mr. Curling gave such valuable suggestions that if they were carried into law an enormous change for the better would take place in the relations between landlord and tenant in Ireland. He did not think it was a good or wise policy to fill the minds of the people of Ireland, ready as they were to fly from the country, with despair of any future improvement. He believed that if the Government were to legislate in the spirit of Mr. Curling's advice they would do great things for Ire-
 836
 MR. VANCE  said, he wished to refer to a subject connected with the Irish police force, and one, therefore, which he would not be out of order in introducing. It was one in which an injury had been done to the public, to the constabulary, and to an individual. In former years the clothing of the Irish constabulary was supplied by a Dublin tradesman, who had fulfilled his engagements in the most unobjectionable manner. But last year the contract had been taken from him and given to Mr. Tate, an enterprizing contractor of Limerick, some influence having, it appeared, been used in that House to obtain its transference. Mr. Tate, however, who had been engaged in supplying the Confederate troops in America had not complied with the terms of his engagements, for he had
 837
 MR. MALINS  said, he thought this was an attempt to re-introduce a pernicious and abolished system. The same practice existed formerly in bankruptcy, and he had seen two days spent before the Judge in an attempt to settle the terms of an appeal.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board, Whether any steps have been, or will be, taken by the Board to ascertain that Dr. Kennard, medical officer of the Highworth Union has discontinued to employ his assistant, which was animadverted on and forbidden in the Secretary's letter to Dr. Kennard, dated the 19th of April, 1865?
 MR. SCULLY  said, he hoped the people of Ireland would not, on the one hand, grow desponding upon the question, and would not, on the other hand, allow themselves to be deluded. He regretted that the Irish Members generally had not accepted the measure of 1854, which was a better one, he feared, than any they had at present a chance of obtaining.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he would not enter into any statistical account of proceedings under this Act, which had come into operation so recently that any observations founded on its working hitherto would prove deceptive. The Act came into operation immediately, but a considerable time necessarily intervened before machinery relating to matters of so grave a character could be finally arranged: 400 officers had been appointed, but, as yet, it had not been found possible to commence business over the face of the country generally. Progress must be made in such a matter step by step; and no doubt pro-
 824
 MR. MURRAY  said, there were many objections to this provision, and moved that it be struck out.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that Clause 2 enacted that a Colonial Governor who had been in the enjoyment of a salary of £5,000 a year should receive a retiring pension of £1,000 a year if he had served for four
 842
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not certain that all the persons committed under this Bill would be in the position of County Court debtors, though some undoubtedly would be. He would look into the matter, however, that the hardship, if any, might be corrected. The treatment was defined by rules made by the Home Office, and not under an Act of Parliament.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to obtain some information from the right hon. Baronet the Chief Secretary for Ireland (Sir Robert Peel) with regard to the Irish Constabulary. That force was very considerable in point of numbers, and large grants had been made for its maintenance. There was at the head of the force in Dublin an officer of considerable experience in military service, who, although appointed recently to that position, was in every way worthy to succeed the other distinguished officer who had preceded him in the office of Inspector General of Constabulary. Some questions, however, had arisen under his rule as to the discipline of the force, and it was very desirable that the public mind should be reassured on the matter. A few weeks ago some very respectable and inoffensive gentlemen were walking in Belfast one Saturday night, when they passed two members of the constabulary force loitering in front of their barracks. They were standing in the middle of the pavement, and one of the gentlemen, in passing, happened to touch the leg of one of the policemen. They both became excessively indignant, used vituperative language, and accused these inoffensive gentlemen, to their surprise, of assaulting the police. According to law in Ireland, a magistrate alone could accept bail for any person charged with assaulting the constabulary, and one of these gentlemen, therefore, was kept in confinement till the following Monday morning. Upon the matter being brought before the two stipendiary magistrates and on a full investigation of the facts, it was satisfactorily proved that no assault had been committed, and that, if touched at all, it was only a touch which had been given accidentally to the leg of the constable. The magistrates, moreover, declared that the police had acted with great impropriety in making use of vituperative language, and in giving this gentleman in charge. A letter was thereupon addressed by the gentleman aggrieved to the Inspector General in Dublin, representing what had occurred, but Colonel Wood did not think the matter came under his jurisdiction, and left the party aggrieved to take such steps as he might be advised. A second letter was addressed
 826 "Constabulary Office, Dublin Castle, May 30. "Sir,—In answer to your letter of the 29th ult., I can only say, in addition to what I have already stated, that if a member of the constabulary force exceeds or neglects his duty as a peace officer, such an offence does not properly form a subject for investigation by me. The steps to be taken in such cases are pointed out in the 19th section of the 6th  Will. "I am, Sir, your obedient servant, "J. SIR WART WOOD, Colonel, Inspector General. "Mr. Arthur Ward, "52, Townsend Street, Belfast." 827 828
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he regretted that the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hennessy) had thought proper to renew the question of the Report of the Tenure of Lands Committee. He was not present when the matter was discussed on Friday night, but he was prepared to endorse the opinion of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cardwell). Whether the Report of the Committee would put an end to the agitation on tenant-right in Ireland he could not say; but upon that Committee sat for many weeks several Members of the House who had given the subject the most careful and assiduous attention. Several witnesses were examined, and whatever might be the effect upon the minds of the people of Ireland, they must give the Committee credit for discussing the question in a fair and candid spirit. He could not, of course, say what course the Government might determine to take next Session. What they must all desire was that either the Government, if it thought fit, or, if not, that some independent Member should bring in a Bill and attempt to settle this vexed question in a fair and equitable manner, and upon some principle the justice of which every one would admit. He would take this opportunity of answering a question put to him the other night about Doyle, the "cosherer." He found that on the 7th of May, after the matter had been mentioned in the House, but before he was memorialized on the subject, the Lord Lieutenant had exercised his prerogative of pardon and had released Doyle, who had been convicted under the provisions of an Act now repealed. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) had remarked on what he had characterized as the singular views taken of the discipline of the constabulary force, and had again alluded to the case of Mr. Ward. When the hon. and learned Gentleman called attention to the case the other night he (Sir Robert Peel) undertook to
 830 "Whitehall, June 10, 1865. "Dear Colonel Wood,—Sir Hugh Cairns brought under the notice of the House last evening the case of a Mr. Ward, living in Townsend Street, Belfast, who appears to have been roughly treated by a police constable while on patrol duty, and, as alleged, without committing any offence whatever, to have been locked up for thirty-six hours, when upon the hearing of the magistrates he was at once ordered to be discharged. Constabulary Inspector Williams, who appears to have some relations with Mr. Kirbey, the editor of the  Belfast Newsletter, "I will endeavour to explain the case to you as far as I know it. I need hardly say that I can have no desire to screen an offending member of the constabulary; but it has, I understand, always been the custom, and I fully concur in the propriety of it, to make a distinction between derelictions of duty as peace officers and mere breaches of constabulary regulations."[The hon. and learned Gentleman would admit that.]"The latter class, which I intended to epitomize by the word 'Discipline,' are very fit subjects for investigation by our constabulary courts; the public have nothing to do with them. But it is otherwise with the former class, and especially when the public are the accusers, and the law has made provision accordingly ( vide 831 832 Regium Donum Regium Donum, Gazette 833 "In selecting men for Belfast there need be no difficulty in preserving among them the proportion which the numbers of the different congregations there bear to each other, and in preserving it till a wiser and happier time renders it unnecessary to take such a circumstance into consideration." 834
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not think the House ought to tie themselves or those who might come after them in the new Parliament to the great changes which were indicated in the proposal submitted to the House by the hon. and gallant Member. He was perfectly willing to consent to the pure and simple continuance of the Court of Referees, for he was not only willing but desirous to give the present system another fair trial. But the hon. and gallant Gentleman had given notice of important alterations in the system introduced this Session. It was not two Chairmen alone who might be appointed. The Resolution referred to an unlimited number, and it appeared to be the necessary consequence of agreeing to it that the Chairmen should be paid. The House, in its present condition, ought to pause before it acceded to so grave a proposition. No one would undervalue the labours of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Waterford (Mr. Hassard) or the hon. Gentleman the Member for Ipswich (Mr. Adair); but directly they opened the door to the payment of Members they did not know where the thing might stop. The three principal questions referred to the Court of Referees were the estimates, the engineering details, and the  locus standi. 871
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  agreed that it was undesirable to come to a vote
 875
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  regretted that his hon. and gallant Friend had yielded himself in this way into the hands of the enemy. Another discussion
 876
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, The hon. and learned Gentleman has imposed on me a task of no ordinary difficulty. The difficulty which I feel is much more owing to my own determination not to permit the feelings which I entertain to get too much mastery over me, than to any inability to deal with the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman or with the questions he has addressed to me. I thought that in this assembly, of all others, the highest in England and the world, even the meanest man might expect justice, and I should have imagined that the same measure of justice would not have been deemed unfit to be extended to one filling the highest and moat dignified position under the Crown. It appears that there are hon. Gentlemen sitting opposite, whose ideas of justice are far different from mine. I thought that in order to judge
 894
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : All I can say is that I think it would have been at least more candid to believe that the head of that Court, who was bound to discharge the grave function of superintending its administration, might, in the inquiries which he instituted into the manner in which subordinate officers had performed their duties, have had some other motive than that of obtaining appointments for his own advantage. And unless the House, departing from the judgment of the Committee, are really prepared to presume and believe that the Lord Chancellor was cognizant of the corrupt means which are stated to have been used by a particular individual to procure an appointment in the Court of Bankruptcy, then I say that upon grounds which are apparent to all in this matter, the Lord Chancellor cannot possibly have been actuated by any improper motive. For what are the facts? They are these—that he instituted inquiries which commenced on the 6th of April, 1864, when the son of the Lord Chancellor, who has been named, was already in possession of an office more valuable than that at Leeds, and could have no possible reason for desiring to have that office; and it was after these inquiries had been instituted that the Lord Chancellor called upon and required his son to resign the appointment which he held, on account of his being in pecuniary embarrassment. And the Lord Chancellor from that day to this, so far from having been open and accessible to influence exercised by his son in any matter of appointment, has not since then even seen him, nor had any communication with him, even by letter, except upon the occasion of a family event to which I need not refer, and when letters were written by him on the subject of these very inquiries. So that whatever may have been the culpability of that person—and it is the deep misfortune of the Lord Chancellor to have a member of his family so little worthy, I regret to be obliged to admit, to bear his name—I should have thought that a generous House of Commons would not have regarded that, at all events, as a ground for believing all sorts of evil against the highest judicial officer in the realm. It will be seen, when the evidence is before the House, what ground there is for believing that, after Mr. Bethell was compelled by the Lord Chancellor himself to give up a more lucrative appointment in London,
 896 897 898 899
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : As I also was a Member of the Committee, I am anxious to say a few words before the discussion closes. I entirely agree with the hon. Member who has just sat down (Mr. E. C. Egerton), that it is impossible for the House to come to any just conclusion without the evidence on which the Report of the Committee is founded. The hon. Gentleman says Parliament is about to be dissolved, and the time is short; therefore he is anxious to call the attention of the House to the subject. But this surely can be no excuse for doing injustice,
 903 904 905 906
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : I do not rise to say much in reference to this subject, because I concur in the opinion that it was not desirable that those who have
 907
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I have not seen a word of it.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Then I regret that the hon. and learned Gentleman should have been so ill instructed. But the Lord Chancellor had seen the evidence. It was not, therefore, true that either the attack or the defence had been made in ignorance.
 VISCOUNT CBANBOURNE : That bears out my statement accurately, and so disappears that whole fabric of virtuous indignation with which the Attorney General, almost bursting into tears——
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I have not seen any one of the papers.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : That is another proof of the amount of cordial harmony and co-operation existing between the Members of this admirably constituted Government. We can, of course, understand that the Lord Chancellor may not have thought it wise to intrust the evidence of his proceedings to the Attorney General, We are all of us acquainted with the high character of that hon. and learned Gentleman, and we can well understand that the Lord Chancellor may not hare cared to submit to him the details of
 908
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I stated that until I saw the evidence it was quite impossible for me to judge whether any and what proceedings ought to be taken. But I do not find that the Committee charge Mr. Miller with being a party to any corruption.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : That is precisely the point to which I wanted to draw the attention of the hon. and learned Gentleman—the bearing of the Committee on the evidence of Mr. Miller. I am not now speaking of the motives of the Lord Chancellor; but what appears to have been the case is, that the Lord Chancellor's patronage was set up for sale; and not only the patronage of the Lord Chancellor, but something infinitely more sacred and important—namely, his judicial power of inflicting penalties. I do not say that Mr. Miller was cognizant of the circumstances, though he certainly was a warm friend of Mr. Bethell; but Mr. Bethell, for the sake of certain money transactions, appears to have used his influence with Mr. Miller, and to have induced him, without authority, to write to Leeds this summary letter, and to take steps for procuring Mr. Wilde's resignation, and afterwards to draw up the appointment in Mr. Bethell's own name, which the Lord Chancellor subsequently refused to confirm. These appear to me to be circumstances full of grave suspicion. When a corrupt transaction has taken place, and a public officer, a friend of one of the parties, has been an instrument, it is difficult to avoid entertaining a suspicion that he was cognizant of the transaction. The Government, therefore, will not be doing their duty unless they institute a close investigation into the facts, and ascertain how far Mr. Miller was really cognizant of what Mr. Bethell was doing, and also, I am bound to add, unless they inflict some punishment upon
 909
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  rose to explain. The Lord Chancellor, in his evidence, stated that so far from making any complaint of not having received the evidence, he wished to come before the Committee and be examined before he was aware of what had been said. The Committee, however, considering that it was virtually a trial of the Lord Chancellor, thought it to be their duty, in strict fairness to all parties, that the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand), who made the accusation, and the Lord Chancellor should be furnished with the evidence from day to day.
 MR. LYGON  said, that if there was a general concurrence of opinion that the experiment ought to be continued, he did not see how the House could postpone the question of the payment of the Chairmen Until next Session.
 MR. DENMAN : AS I understand it, what the Government have undertaken to do is precisely what the noble Lord (Viscount Cranbourne) suggests that they should do—namely, examine closely the evidence when it is in their possession. The noble Lord, who rose for the purpose of justifying the hon. and learned Member for Mallow, put forward a very odd ground of justification. He said that the hon. and learned Gentleman had been present when the evidence was given. The position of the hon. and learned Member for Mallow was that of a juryman in waiting, who may be called on to discharge important functions in the next case; but whose opinion, as a mere spectator, without responsibility, is worth nothing in this case, in which he so glibly volunteers an opinion. In this case he was not called on to act as a Member of Parliament at all, nor did he, as the Committee were bound to do, remain in the Committee-room from hour to hour and from minute to minute taking notes to corroborate his own recollection. I rose, not for the purpose of justifying the Lord Chancellor, but to beg the House to do justice to the Committee, upon whom the responsibility of the inquiry was cast, and who, I think, have been hardly dealt with in this discussion. Five Gentlemen were appointed on that Committee, in addition to the two who conducted the case; three were Gentlemen sitting on that side of the House, and two of them sitting upon this side. From the very moment that their names were mentioned they found acceptance, because those names were felt to afford a guarantee that they would approach the inquiry with a sole desire to do justice in the matter. We are in this position now, that we have not the evidence before us; yet an hon. and learned Gentleman volunteers in its absence, not only to impeach the Chancellor, but to overrule the Committee from whom the Report has emanated. Such, I apprehend, has never been the practice of this House, and it ought, I think, to be discouraged.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he could not believe it to be fair to call upon two Members of the House to devote the whole of their time to expediting the Private business, and to make great sacrifices of their own affairs without awarding them some adequate compensation—it was another question whether, at the close of a Parliament, and in a very thin House, hon. Members should be asked to come to a decision upon so important a question as whether they should be paid. Possibly it might be well to leave it over to a future occasion. He entirely acquiesced in the decision of the
 869
 LORD HOTHAM  desired to point out that if the settlement of this matter were left over to the new Parliament a considerable portion of the Session would be lost for the transaction of Private business. He concurred in wishing to continue the system, so that the House might give it a fair trial, which it had not yet
 870
 MR. AYRTON  objected to the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire as an important change in the constitution of the House, and as contrary to the solemn assurance given by the late Chairman of Ways and Means that the new system should be so carried out that the House should never be reduced to the position of paying its Members. But by this proposal the Speaker was enabled to convert any two Members into his own stipendiary officers. He must also say that the House was not in the position to consider a change of so much importance, inasmuch as it must itself soon cease to exist. One of the greatest evils of the present system of conducting the Private business of the House arose from the fact that there were none of those legal rules of procedure which, in his opinion, were necessary to enable a Court to arrive at a proper judicial conclusion. It would certainly be an improvement to separate the question of  locus standi
 MR. AYRTON : The hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hennessy) seems to think that somebody has grossly failed in his duty because the House has not already received this evidence. That, I think, is jumping to a very summary conclusion, regardless of the facts; because, although the inquiry may have closed, some days are usually allowed to have the proceedings regularly indexed and examined by the Clerk. I say this upon general grounds merely. I know nothing about the evidence, and therein I fancy I am in precisely the same position as the hon. and learned Member.
 MR. AYRTON : We all know as well as the hon. Member that the evidence is printed from day to day; but beyond that fact I venture to think that the hon. Member knows nothing to justify him in imputing motives. The noble Lord (Viscount Cranbourne) also appeared to labour under some misconception with regard to Mr. Bethell's share in this matter, and one might have thought that a reasonable amount of imputations was to be found in the Report without exaggerating or adding to them. As far as the Report goes, there is nothing whatever to show that Mr. Bethell in any way counselled the steps taken in connection with Mr. Wilde's resignation, or derived any advantage from it. I mention this to show how injurious it is to embark in a discussion of this personal nature, without having proper materials before us; for if the noble Lord has evidence in support of his statement outside the contents of this Report, he is speaking of something with which
 911
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the effect of the 12th clause of the Bill would be this, that the oath of canonical obedience would be retained as part of the service for the ordination of priests and the consecration of bishops, whilst the oath giving assent to the articles of religion of the Church of England and the oath of supremacy would not be retained in the service. He could not believe that it was the intention of the framers of the Bill to place a matter of mere discipline in the position of higher importance than a question involving obedience to the Sovereign.
 MR. E. C. EGERTON : Sir, as a Member of the Committee, I must say I think it premature in the House to enter into this discussion until the whole of the evidence is in its possession. It would have been most fair to those whose conduct has been impugned, and also to Members of the Committee, who endeavoured to discharge their duty honestly, faithfully, and impartially, that the House should have had an opportunity of reading the whole evidence and taking a full, impartial view of the whole circumstances, before it was called on to pronounce an opinion on this subject. I rose, however, chiefly to impress on the Attorney General the necessity of having the evidence produced with the greatest expedition. There is naturally grave suspicion in the public mind with reference to this subject. The Report of the Committee has been circulated by the press through the whole length and breadth of the land—the Committee have been violently attacked for having dealt lightly with some of the evidence; and it is most important for the public interests that the whole evidence in the case should be produced as soon as possible. The House, I am sure, is too just and too honest to come to any decision till it has read the evidence  in extenso.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, I do not rise to say many words on this subject, particularly after what has fallen from the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General), who has stated that if the evidence bears out what is contained in the Report with respect to certain parties to these transactions, prosecutions will be instituted against the parties implicated, by direction of the Government. But, while I pass by that part of the case, I cannot help adverting to that part which does not require the support of extraneous evidence. Having regard to the position which the Lord Chancellor holds, and actuated by no party feeling, I must say, looking to his own admissions, that it appears to me they do affect in the strongest degree that dignity and integrity which ought to attach to a person holding the high office which he fills. And when we consider the course which has been pursued with regard to the pension of Mr. Wilde, the dissolution being so near at hand, and no one knowing when the evidence will be ready, the House would have neglected its duty if it had not taken the earliest opportunity of calling attention to the Report of the Committee. What are the facts of the case? There was a charge made by the Lord Chancellor on the 16th of May against Mr. Wilde, consisting of three items—first, that accounts had been certified by him which had never been seen by him; second, that he was in the habit of taxing the Bills of the messengers without calling for vouchers for the sums alleged to have been paid by them; and, third, that he had borrowed money both from the official assignees and messengers of the Court, thereby sacrificing his independence and efficiency. These were three grave and serious charges against a man in the position of Mr. Wilde, and certainly called on the part of the Lord Chancellor for scrutiny, and punishment if the offence imputed had been committed. I shall not go into the merits of the case, nor pronounce any opinion upon them—I proceed entirely on the admissions which have been made. It appears that on the 26th of July, by direction of the Lord Chancellor, according to Mr. Miller's account, and by the Lord Chancellor's direction to a certain extent, according to his Lordship's own account,
 900 "Court of Bankruptcy, July 26, 1864. Sir,—It grieves me much to inform you that, unless I hear in course of post that you mean to apply to be allowed to retire, I have instructions from the Lord Chancellor to serve you with notice to appear before him publicly in open court and show cause why you should not be dismissed from your office of registrar." 901 902
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that if the House rejected the Motion of his hon. and gallant Friend it would be understood that it was opposed to any payment being made. Now, he had been as unwilling as any one to begin a proceeding of that kind, but he had come to the deliberate conclusion that if they insisted on the Chairmen being Members of the House, they would be unable to carry on the present system unless they paid them. He suggested that the House might amend the Standing Orders with the exception of No. 88, and leave the question of remuneration to the Chairmen to be dealt with next Session.
 MR. SPEAKER : I wish to offer my personal thanks to those Gentlemen who were so good as to take upon themselves the duties of the Court of Referees at my request. I wish to mention the names of the Chairman of Ways and Means (Mr. Dodson); Mr. Hugh Adair, Chairman of Court of Referees; Mr. Hassard, Chairman; Mr. Rickards, Counsel to the Speaker; the right hon. Sir W. Gibson Craig, Sir John Duckworth, Colonel Stuart (Bedford), Sir Edward Colebrooke (Lanarkshire), Mr. Leveson Gower (Reigate), and Mr. C. W. Wynne (Montgomeryshire) the last three Gentlemen lending their assistance when the pressure became greatest. By the ability and assiduity which all these Gentlemen brought to bear upon their duties, the Private Business of the House has been performed in a manner satisfactory to the House and to the country.
 MR. SPEAKER : Does the hon. Member intend to conclude with a Motion?
 MR. DODSON  said, that the House must have felt that no apology was needed from his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Wilson Patten) for undertaking to bring this subject before the House. The appointment of the Court of Referees had proved successful beyond all his expectations. He had deemed it open to the fundamental objection of a divided jurisdiction. That was still his opinion. He had also doubted whether it would practically work; but herein he had been mistaken. It had worked on the whole well, and had effected a great improvement on the former state of things. The effect had been to expedite business, to save time and labour to Members of that House, and at the same time the questions of engineering and estimates, which were the special subjects of consideration before the Referees, had been sifted and investigated in a manner never before performed. He thought that the Courts of Referees might be composed of Members of the House assisted by permanent assessors, and should then have the same power as ordinary Committees of dealing with Private Bills, and reporting upon them; but as the Committee had recommended that the system should be continued as it had hitherto been conducted he hoped the House would consent to the Resolution—which proposed that where all parties are agreed the Referees shall have power to inquire into the whole subject matter of the Bill and report to the House; the Bill thereafter to be treated as an unopposed Bill. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) asked who were to represent the public, but the public would not be in a worse position than if the Bill went before a Select Committee. He did not see how the interests of the public would be in the least degree endangered if the whole question went
 872 sine quâ non
 MR. HENNESSY : I have ascertained that the evidence was in type ten days ago.
 MR. HENNESSY : It is said that we have only the Report before us, and, therefore, can do nothing; but the whole of the evidence given before the Committee was actually printed on the 17th of June, ten days before a word of the Report was in type. The Committee very wisely had the evidence printed from day
 910
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, it would not be desirable to withdraw his Motion, and have his speech to make over again, but he would not object to the adjournment of the debate. At the same time he wished to remind the House that at present there was no proposition made by the Committee to pay the Chairman. He only asked the House to try the plan proposed by the Committee as an experiment, and let it be for future consideration whether it should be made permanent or not. All he desired was that these Resolutions should be a continuance of the experiment which had already been tried, subject to the improvements suggested by the Committee. He had no objection to postpone the consideration of the question until Monday, although he could not see what satisfactory object could be attained by a postponement.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  thought it probable that if the debate was adjourned to Monday there would be a still smaller House than at present.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that in spite of their utmost exertions it had been found impossible to get the evidence printed and in the hands of Members before that morning.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  consented to withdraw the proposition for the payment of the Chairmen of the Court of Referees, on condition that the other recommendations of the Committee, to which he did not think there could be any objection were agreed to.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  in rising, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the Report of the Committee on the Court of Referees on Private Bills, said, that before he adverted to the alterations in the Standing Orders which he was about to propose, he wished to say a few words on the Private Business of the House, not only in its present state, but as it had existed for some years past. The attention of the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair had been directed to the subject for several
 862 863 864 locus standi, "I should wish, in the first instance, to say that it is impossible to express too strongly my opinion of the extraordinary work which has been done by the Referees in the course of this Session, both in respect of the stupendous industry which they have shown, and the great ability which has been brought to bear upon the questions with which they have dealt. All I have to say is, that if you could find a sufficient number of persons to constitute Committees, as efficient as the Courts of Referees, the whole system would be superfluous, because I do not suppose that anybody would think of removing from a body so constituted the consideration of the whole of the question which is to be decided. I have been before the Referees in cases of the greatest possible consequence, and the only feeling which I have had is one of regret that, after gentlemen of such competence to deal with the question have gone into the inquiry in a most elaborate manner, just at the moment when the matter is ripe for a final decision, it should be withdrawn from them and carried before another tribunal, which has, necessarily, a much less acquaintance with the question upon which it has to pronounce." 865 866 locus standi 867 868
 MR. LONGFIELD : Sir, having given notice of my intention to comment on the Report of the Committee on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court, and to ask the Attorney General what steps the Government propose to take against the parties implicated by that Report, I do not know how far I shall be in order in prefacing my Question by a statement of facts. I shall endeavour to compress that statement into as narrow a compass as possible, in order that the House and the country may understand—[Order, order!]
 MR. LONGFIELD : I shall put myself in order by moving, at the conclusion of my statement, the adjournment of the House. ["Oh, oh!"] I am aware that the course is an unusual one, and one which I have never before taken; but the circumstances themselves are so unusual as to afford a complete justification for the step. These circumstances, unhappily, are rather notorious. A Member of Her Majesty's Government, holding the very highest station which can be held under the Crown, has within three months given occasion for two separate inquiries into the purity and propriety of his conduct. The general outline of those inquiries is sufficiently indicated by stating that they bear a considerable resemblance to each other. Having in the course of his judicial functions ascertained that certain offences had been committed, the noble and learned Lord took advantage of those offences to force out of offices which they held the persons by whom it was alleged that those offences were committed, and the proceedings thus instituted on the part of the Crown he made profitable to himself by appointing members of his own family to the vacant offices. One of these investigations took place in the House of Lords, and was connected with a gentleman named Edmunds. That inquiry has a considerable bearing upon the inquiry which has just been concluded by this House; for scarcely had that inquiry terminated when another unfortunate circumstance was adverted to in this House. A gentleman named Wilde was forced to resign his appointment at Leeds, and his appointment was at once promised to the Chancellor's son, although, from circumstances which afterwards occurred, that appointment was not actually made. The matter formed the subject of some discussion in this House, and resulted in the appointment of a Committee to investigate the entire transaction. It was stated that the Chancellor courted the fullest and fairest and openest inquiry; and the Committe of Selection named five Gentlemen of the highest character and respectability to inquire into the circumstances which thus, a second time within two months, cast the deepest possible slur on the administration of justice and on the judicial authority. That Committee, following a most objectionable precedent set in another place, fell, I regret to say, into the very grave mistake—for mistake everybody now confesses it to have been—of conducting that most solemn inquiry, which the Chan-
 881 esprit de corps, 882 "Dear Sir—By direction of the Lord Chancellor I lately transmitted to Mr. Commissioner Ayrton the accounts of the official assignees and messengers of the Leeds Court, with a view to an investigation of them, and in a letter dated the 27th ult. Mr. Commissioner Ayrton writes as follows—'I have not yet looked into the accounts of the official assignees, but on opening the large paper returns made to you, I see the words, "Submitted to and approved by Mr. Commissioner Ayrton on the 8th of April, 1862. H. S. Wilde, Registrar."—The fact being that I never saw that sheet or the accounts it refers to, till I received it from you.' I am now directed by the Lord Chancellor to ask what explanation you have to give of this very grave offence." "Mr. Carrick, one of the official assignees, asserts that you owe him £131, and Mr. Needell, one of the messengers, that you owe him £25, all for money borrowed. I am directed by the Lord Chancellor to ask you whether these statements are true?" 883 "That about the end of April, or the beginning of May, 1864, he was at Mr. Bethell's office in Quality Court, and took a letter of introduction from Mr. Bethell to Mr. Welch, who was then in chambers at the Temple; that an arrangement had been previously made that Mr. Bethell should use his influence to procure an appointment from his father in favour of Mr. Welch; that Mr. Welch should pay £500 down, and on obtaining an appointment should pay £1,000 more; that he (Mr. Harding) mentioned this arrangement to Mr. Welch, who acquiesced in it; that the understanding was clear; the £500 was to be paid to Mr. Bethell on the security of his bill at short date, which was to be destroyed or returned if Mr. Welch obtained an appointment, and that he (Mr. Harding), was to receive one-third of the further £1,000, when paid." "Court of Bankruptcy, May 16, 1864. "Dear Sir,—By the same post which carries this you will receive copies of four reports lately made to the Lord Chancellor by Mr. Commis-
 884 "Yours, &c., "JOHN F. MILLER." "H. S. Wilde, Esq." "Mr. Miller states that copies of the last-mentioned report and other documents were sent on the 9th of June, with the letter of that date, set
 885 886 "Sir,—It grieves me much to inform you that, unless I hear in course of post that you mean to apply to be allowed to retire, I have instructions from the Lord Chancellor to serve you with notice to appear before him publicly in open court, and show cause why you should not be dismissed from your office of Registrar. It is said that your state of health is such that you can have no difficulty in obtaining such a medical certificate as would entitle you to retire under the 33rd section of the Bankruptcy Act, 1861; and, if this he so, I sincerely trust, for your own sake, that you will see the propriety of relieving the Chancellor from the very disagreeable and, indeed, painful duty which is thrust upon him." "Mr. Miller states that the first part of this letter, including the passage as to the course of post and the application to retire, was strictly in accordance with the directions of the Lord Chancellor, but that for the second part"— 887 "I hereby certify that I have been consulted by Mr. Henry S. Wilde, on account of a failure in his sight, which was a serious hindrance to him in the performance of the duties of his office. Mr. Wilde first consulted me in August, 1863. At his age I cannot look for any improvement in his vision." "The petition, affidavit, and certificate were submitted by Mr. Miller to the Lord Chancellor on the 30th of June. Mr. Miller states that he called the attention of the Lord Chancellor to the unsatisfactory nature of the certificate, and that the Lord Chancellor said that, coupling the language of the petition, the affidavit, and the certificate together, there was a sufficient case to enable him to make the order." per se, "The Lord Chancellor, in his evidence, states that he cannot remember his attention being called to the certificate. He says—'The petition, affidavit, and certificate were presented to me, and I ought in strictness to have read them all.'" "That in the captain's but a choleric word Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy." "I ought in strictness to have read them all. I certainly could not have read the medical certificate, or I should not have allowed it to pass upon that certificate." 888 "Those papers were certainly all laid before me, and I felt very great embarrassment, undoubtedly. … I felt that the charge against Mr. Wilde was not one upon which I could dismiss him without pronouncing a very severe sentence. I was painfully struck with the great inconsistency of having directed him to be served with a notice to show cause why he should not be dismissed, and then permitting him to resign on a pension." "The inconsistency," continues the Lord Chancellor, "was obvious; but, at the same time, unless I determined to dismiss him, I had no alternative but to allow him to remain in that Department. I thought him a bad public officer, and I thought that it would be a gain to the public if he was permitted to resign; and, therefore, having only those two alternatives, either to permit him to remain or to allow him to resign, I certainly decided upon allowing him to resign; and I accordingly signed the order for granting him a pension." "Such haste and want of caution necessarily give rise to suspicion that a vacancy in the Office is the object sought rather than justice to the officer or the public." "In this instance, however, your Committee consider that no improper motives are to be imputed to the Lord Chancellor." 889 "Are satisfied that no imputation can fairly be made against the Lord Chancellor with regard to this appointment." 890 "Your Committee have given the more prominent facts or statements bearing on this matter. For minute details they refer to the evidence of the parties concerned. The statement of Mr. Harding is irreconcilable with that of Mr. Bethell and Mr. Welch." "Mr. Harding's statement, "say the Committee," if true, discloses a corrupt bargain between the three parties; if false, it is a gross attempt at extortion. One or other of these conclusions would be established by a judicial investigation of the facts of the case; but as each of them involves the liability to a charge of a highly penal character, your Committee, not having the opportunity of examining witnesses upon oath, or of bringing the persons inculpated to a formal trial, purposely abstain from expressing any opinion as to which of the two views above mentioned ought to be adopted. They consider it their duty to observe, that the indisputable facts are such as to render it essential to the public interest that the case should, as soon as possible, be made the subject of legal investigation." 891 892 893 "Although some of the questions asked in your honourable House, which led to the appointment of this Committee, were founded on information which was not thoroughly accurate, yet the general impression created by the sudden retirement of Mr. Wilde, and the pecuniary transactions which took place between Mr. Bethell and Mr. Welch, coupled with the representations made by Mr. Bethell on his visit to Leeds, were calculated to excite the gravest suspicions; and your Committee are of opinion that the inquiry which they have conducted was for this reason highly desirable for the public interests."
 MR. LONGFIELD : I said there were many, owing to the Lord Chancellor's supineness.
 MR. LONGFIELD : I did not make a single assertion which was not in the evidence; not a single one.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the House must see that his hon. and gallant Friend, having moved for the appointment of the Committee to inquire into the working of the new system, could not do otherwise than bring under its notice the recommendations of the Committee, and to propose such Standing Orders as they deem desirable. It was, however, obvious that, if they went beyond a mere Continuance Bill, there ought to be something like a general concurrence of opinion in any change that might be made. It was difficult to answer the appeal that the evidence had only just been laid before
 874
 MR. SCULLY : I must express my regret at the tone the discussion has taken. I am in the same position as the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton). From the terms of the Question which the hon. and learned Mem-
 912
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  asked the First Lord of the Treasury, When it was probable, taking the state of Public Business into account, that the Session might be brought to an end?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was natural the House should wish to examine the evidence before it came to a decision, and it was only with that object his right hon. Friend had moved the adjournment of the debate. No doubt the passing of the Motion now before the House would be regarded as an expression of opinion that the Chairmen ought to be paid, and would pledge the Government to propose the Vote in the next Session of Parliament. He would not express any opinion whether such payment would be advisable or not, but the House ought to know the evidence on which the Committee found their recommendation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that although the House, for the reasons assigned, appeared to be disinclined to consider the payment of the Chairmen of the Court of Referees, both the House, and the public, were deeply indebted to those hon. Gentlemen for the time they had bestowed and the ability with which they had conducted the business of the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the oath of canonical obedience did not rest upon statute, whereas the oath as to assent to the articles of religion and as to the Royal supremacy rested upon the statute law. It was the statutory oath only that was dealt with by this Act, and there was no intention to interfere in any way with the canonical oath of obedience.
 MR. MOWBRAY  thought that the speech of the hon. Gentleman, the Chairman of Ways and Means, had disclosed the greatest possible objection to the proposal now made, for he said that the payment of the Chairmen was a  sine quâ non 873
 MR. MOWBRAY  suggested, that instead of adjourning the debate it would be better to let any alteration in Standing Order No. 88 remain over for consideration till next Session.
 SIR JOHN SHELLEY , in voting for the further trial of the experiment, distinctly understood that the two hon. Gentlemen referred to would not continue their labours next Session unless they were paid. In recommending the continuance of the system next Session, therefore, the Committee regarded the payment of the Chairmen of the Courts of Referees as a  sine quâ non.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK : I desire to say only one or two words in connection with this subject. I beg the House to observe that through either the extreme leniency or negligence of the Lord Chancellor upon two occasions pensions have been granted to persons unfit to receive them. I trust that this fact will not be forgotten, and I feel convinced that the country will ask whether a high official who has twice been guilty, under circumstances of peculiar suspicion, of permitting pensions to be given to unworthy persons, is one who is deserving of the honour and respect of the profession of which he is the leader.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets that the question of paying Members was one which ought to be maturely considered before the House came to any decision, but he had no hesitation in saying if the system was to be continued it was a question which ought to be faced, for it was impossible that any Gentlemen should be expected to give their continuous attention to the business of Committees without some remuneration. The tribunal was, from the nature of its constitution, a weak one, and it was necessary to consider whether it could not be improved. With regard to the important question, how far the system had inspired public confidence, he felt a strong conviction that it had done so to a considerable extent, and that if it was continued it would maintain its position in that respect. A suggestion had been made that when a question was before the Referees they should be at liberty to inquire into the whole matter. He was convinced that the success which had hitherto attended the working of the new plan arose from the Gentlemen who acted as Chairmen and their assessors giving their continuous and undivided attention to the business, and he was of opinion that if questions were to be wholly decided by the Referees, there would be a great saving of time and expense, and greater equity in the ultimate decision. The work spread over a great number of Committees might be concentrated in two or three tribunals, and he thought it desirable that power might be given to Committees to sit when the House was not sitting. Two or three tribunals sitting continuously would, he believed, be able to dispose of the whole of the Private business in a satisfactory manner; but then the House must be prepared to give an adequate remuneration to the Gentlemen who gave up their whole time and experience to the work.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I believe, as far as the Public Business before the two Houses of Parliament is concerned, there is nothing which would keep Parliament sitting longer than Thursday week; and that event which we are all looking forward to may take place on that day—Thursday, the 6th of July—at the latest. I know that there are railway Bills now before the House of Lords which some are of opinion would be concluded some few days later than the 6th, and that a wish has been expressed that Parliament should be kept sitting for the purpose of settling the squabbles of those railway companies. But we all know the great public inconvenience which would result from any unnecessary delay with respect to the elections. The whole of the United Kingdom, in fact, is interested in the matter. Great trouble has been taken, great expense incurred, and great inconvenience is felt; and therefore I think the House will be of opinion that Government is right in preferring the public advantage to the interest of these particular railway companies. Indeed, it is entirely in the power of those who have an interest in these disputes to reinstate the Bills next Parliament in the position in which they will be left by the dissolution, which will take place next Thursday week.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, I am sorry to prolong this discussion even by a few words; but I cannot let it close without expressing the pain, and—if the hon. and learned Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield) will allow me to say so—the indignation with which I listened to his speech. Sir, this House is composed of opposite parties, and it is perfectly right for Members of one party to take advantage of any fair ground for commenting upon the conduct of persons belonging to the other party, and especially of persons who happen to hold office. But hitherto it has been the characteristic of this House that, however great our animosities or strong the party feeling which divides Gentlemen on one side from the other, at all events the persons accused should have fair play. Now, the Lord Chancellor has not had fair play from the hon. and learned Member. It appears that the hon. and learned Member for Mallow was present during the whole investigation; he knows, therefore, exactly what the evidence given was; and yet it is stated by those who were also present that the hon. and learned Member has made assertions of matters, as if contained in that evidence, which will not be found in the evidence when it is produced. It
 913
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I was also, I must say, much grieved to hear the bitterness of invective which the hon. and learned Member threw into the charges which he made against the Lord Chancellor. He might be slightly justified in stating that which was borne out by the evidence, and which, he says, he heard; but he was not justified in indulging in that bitter personal invective which was not unjustly characterized by the Attorney General as more suitable to the practice of the Old Bailey than to the ordinary practice of the profession to which he belongs. But I complain, moreover, of the manner in which the hon. and learned Member has brought the subject under discussion. If he had intended to make an attack upon the Lord Chancellor, founded on evidence not in the hands of Members, but of which he had cognizance, he ought, at all events, to have given notice of his intention. But the notice which he gave was of a question to be asked; and so little did that notice indicate his intention of making a virulent personal attack on the Lord Chancellor that I was going to answer the question instead of the Attorney General, believing that the real point which he wanted to know was what course the Government was to take when the evidence was produced. I was going to tell him that it was the intention of the Government to submit the evidence to the Law Officers of the Crown, in order that such legal steps might be taken as might be justified by the state of the case. And so much did the Question put upon the paper imply that it was directed against other persons, and not against the Lord Chancellor, that it asks what steps are to be taken against "the parties implicated?" Sir, I can only regret that the hon. and learned Member has taken a course which, I think, is so entirely different and so much opposed to that which even the most violent party Members are in the habit of pursuing; and I am convinced that when this evidence is in the hands of Members they will come to a very different conclusion from the hon. and learned Member, and that they will find that, so far from
 914
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he regretted he was obliged to move that the Order for the Second Reading of this Bill be discharged. He did so owing to the fact that the Report of the Capital Punishment Commission had not yet been presented to the House. He might be permitted to state that a wrong impression seemed to be prevalent as to the nature of the Bill. It was not intended to authorize what were called private executions. On the contrary, the sheriff would have power under it to admit as many of the public to be present at executions as he should think fit; and certificates from the prison officials would be given that the sentence of death had been duly carried out in each case. If he should have the honour of a seat in the next Parliament, he would re-introduce the Bill.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the second Roman Catholic Bishop about to be appointed to the new see at Malta is to be exempted from all liability to be prosecuted in any Court of Law for any offence, civil or criminal?
 MR. KINNAIRD,  thought that the Secretary for India was placed in a most unenviable position. First, he was found fault with for not doing something, and then, when he had sought to remedy the evil complained of, he was abused and virtually told that he had better have done nothing. His hon. Friend who had just sat down complained of the increase of the police and of their being armed. Some years ago he remembered bringing before the House the need there was for an increase. With regard to their being armed, he believed when they were so it was exceptional, and that ordinarily they were not so. Again, an accusation had been brought against the Governor General, Sir John Lawrence, on account of the inquiry he had instituted in Oude into the rights of the under tenantry; and it was said that he wished to destroy the aristocracy as he had done in the Punjab. That he had not done anything to forfeit the confidence of the talookdars and other large landholders was evidenced by the late Durbar, the success of which was a sufficient reply to such accusations. Again, with regard to the army, one would have thought from the observations then made that there was a proposal greatly to increase it, whereas, the fact was, that the Secretary for India had reduced it by two regiments and a battery of artillery. He thought that the Government might be congratulated on the condition of India under many of its aspects, and he was glad that a policy of protection, or restriction on trade, had not been sanctioned. The testimony of facts proved that free trade was a permanent source of wealth, whatever apparent or temporary advantages might result to the revenue from an opposite course. He was also bound to express his satisfaction at the wise view adopted by the Government with respect to the land question, and that, while maintaining a native aristocracy as necessary for India, they at the same time were determined to uphold the rights of the peasantry, and give them that security of tenure which must be at the base of all improvement, social and moral—the more liberal construction placed upon the grant in aid system, by which the cause of education had been advanced showed the progressive spirit that had animated the councils and the legislation for India during the past year. He trusted that, by the develop-
 960
 MR. BUXTON  said, he was sorry that the hon. Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour) should have given countenance to the misapprehension which prevailed with regard to Sir Charles Trevelyan's proposals. The general idea appeared to be that Sir Charles Trevelyan had to deal with a failing income; that he nevertheless abolished the income tax, induced thereto by a supposed obstinate adherence to views expressed when he was Governor of Madras; and that, having created a deficiency, he sought to make it up by a loan and by the imposition of export duties on various Indian products. Nothing could be more unlike the truth than that representation. The fact was that the income of India for the ensuing year was calculated, after the abolition of the income tax, to be considerably greater than in the preceding year, and Sir Charles Trevelyan did not in his original scheme propose any export duties. The income of the ensuing year was calculated to produce more than the current expenditure, and but for the outlay on public works Sir Charles Trevelyan would have had a surplus. It was to meet the demand for public works that he proposed a loan, Sir Charles Trevelyan's view being that for reproductive public works it was right and wise, while paying the greater portion of the cost out of revenue, to meet some part of the expense by a small loan; and, in his financial statement, he observed—
 "It is true that the Ways and Means of the year are, to the extent of £1,200,000, composed of borrowed money. But this loan has nothing in common with the shifts and expedients of insolvent or embarrassed States. It is the result of a discriminating policy which confines taxation to its just objects, and provides by loan for reproductive works and for works of every kind which are on such a scale as would too severely strain the resources of a single generation. The best employment of money is that which the industrial classes make of their annual savings for their own sake, and it is no real advantage to the community to interfere seriously with this natural process and to cause general harassment and discontent in order to accelerate the execution of public works. Even if the condition of the finances were all that could be desired, it would still be expedient to limit taxation to the proper business
 953 954
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said: I must throw myself upon the kind indulgence of the House in the statement which I am
 928 929 930 931 932 933 934 935 936 937 "As long as there is so high a price given for quantity, no ryot will trouble himself about improving the quality until the demand for quantity has been satisfied. The only remedy I know is to improve the indigenous cotton plant of India." 938 "That portion of the province of Berar which is now being penetrated by the railway yields three times the above amount of cotton, and manual labour is still more scanty. The produce, as it is picked from the field, is piled up in one large heap in the open air, where it remains sometimes for months until labour can be obtained. When first stored in this way, from a short distance it resembles a heap of snow in whiteness; dust storms, however, set in, and the heap becomes gradually covered with fine sand and earth, until at length one can no longer distinguish what the contents may be. A few showers of rain generally succeed those dust storms, and the amalgamation of mud and cotton is completed." 939 "Neither is the privilege which the ryots in many parts of Bengal enjoy of holding possession of the spots of land which they cultivate, so long as they pay the revenue assessed upon them, by any means incompatible with the proprietary rights of the zemindars. Whoever cultivates the land, the zemindars can receive no more than the established rent, which in most cases is fully equal to what the cultivator can afford to pay. To permit him to dispossess one cultivator for the sole purpose of giving the land to another, would be vesting him with a power to commit a wanton act of oppression from which he could derive no benefit. The practice which prevailed under the Mogul government of uniting many districts under one zemindary, and thereby subjecting a large body of people to the control of one principal zemindar, rendered some restriction of the nature absolutely necessary. The zemindar may, however, sell the land, and the cultivator must pay the rent to the purchaser." "I am directeed by the Governor General in Council to forward, &c, and to request that you will take every opportunity of explaining to the talookdars of Oude the object and limit of the inquiries now going on, and repeat to them the assurance that the spirit and letter of Lord Canning's policy, and the condition of his sunnuds will be scrupulously maintained." 940 "Lucknow, April 19, 1865. "Sir,—I have been directed by the Governor General to take every opportunity of explaining to the talookdars the object and limit of the inquiries into rights of occupancy going on, and, as I cannot expect to meet many of you for some months to come, I must have recourse to a letter to give effect to the Governor General's instructions. 2. I have always told you, and you have readily admitted, that if right of occupancy existed at annexation on the part of non-proprietary cultivators of the soil, they have been preserved by the condition of the sunnuds, that 'all holding under you shall be secured in the possession of all the subordinate rights they formerly enjoyed.' You will also recollect Lord Canning's words in his speech at Durbar, in October, 1859—' The preservation of the great families of the soil has been encouraged and facilitated. The rights of the humble occupants have been protracted.' 3. The only foundation on which rights of occupancy exist is their previous existence at the time of annexation. But there has been difference of opinion among officials whether they did exist there or not. To remove all doubts on this point is the object of the present inquiry, if the results should be to establish the existence of such rights, they must, of course, be maintained, as you yourselves allow. If, on the other hand, it should prove that they did not exist at annexation, no new rights will be created. 4. I have repeatedly told most of you to wait patiently the termination of this inquiry, which can have no other result than to elicit the truth. I am glad to say my advice has been attended to. 5. You are aware that the policy of Lord Canning was to maintain in Oude a class of superior landholders in an influential position. For this reason he also invested many of you with judicial and revenue powers. This policy had the full approval of the Home Government. It will be steadily pursued in its spirit and letter by the Governor General, and the condition of the sunnuds will be scrupulously maintained." 941 942 943 
 "1. That the total net revenues of the territories and departments under the immediate control of the Government of India for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £3,956,776 sterling, and the charges thereof, for the same period other than military charges, amounted to £3,208,118 sterling. "2. That the total net revenues of the Bengal Presidency for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £11,662,738 sterling, and the charges thereof, for the same period, other than military charges, amounted to £2,513,263 sterling. "3. That the total net revenues of the North Western Provinces for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £4,847,051 sterling, and the charges thereof, for the same period, other than military charges, amounted to £1,485,351 sterling. "4. That the total net revenues of the Punjab for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £2,755,169 sterling, and the charges thereof for the same period, other than military charges, amounted to £1,096,999 sterling. "5. That the total net revenues of the territories and departments under the immediate control of the Government of India, of the Bengal Presidency, of the North Western Provinces, and of the Punjab, together, for the year ended the 80th day of April, 1864, amounted to £23,221,734 sterling, and the charges thereupon, including the military charges, amounted to £15,464,862 sterling, leaving a surplus available for the general charges of India of £7,756,872 sterling. "6. That the total net revenues of the Madras Presidency (Fort St. George) for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £5,973,313 sterling, and the net charges thereof, for the same period, amounted to £5,167,165 sterling, leaving a surplus available in the above Presidency, for the general charges of India, of £806,148 sterling. "7. That the total net revenues of the Bombay Presidency for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £6,441,851 sterling, and the net charges thereof, for the same period, amounted to £5,386,361 sterling, leaving a surplus available in the above Presidency, for the general charges of India, of £1,055,490 sterling. "8. That the total net revenues of the several Presidencies for the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £35,636,898 sterling, and the charges thereof amounted to £26,018,388 sterling, leaving a surplus revenue of £9,618,510 sterling. 944 "9. That the interest on the registered debt of India, paid in the year ended the 30th day of April, 1864, amounted to £3,093,250 sterling, and the charges defrayed in England, on account of the Indian territory, in the same period, including interest on debt incurred in England, and guaranteed interest on the capital of railway and other companies, after deducting net traffic receipts of railways, amounted to £6,446,913 sterling, leaving a surplus of Indian income for the year ended as aforesaid, after defraying the above interest and charges, of £78,347 sterling."
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, in reply, that he had introduced a Bill last year for the purpose of enabling the Secretary of State for India to obtain a sufficient number of assistant surgeons from those who had entered the Queen's general service by competition to form a Medical Staff Corps for India. The House was pleased to throw out that Bill on the third reading, and he was therefore compelled to maintain a separate establishment for India.
 925
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  replied, that he was very anxious that the Commission should have been sooner appointed, but he had had the greatest difficulty in obtaining the services of a suitable Chairman. He was anxious that his noble Friend (Lord Hotham), who had sat on both the previous Commissions, should undertake the duty, but the noble Lord felt an over-scrupulous delicacy on the subject, and feared that, as he had voted with him (Sir Charles Wood) in the division against the Motion of Captain Lewis, it might be supposed that he would not bring that absolute impartiality to the consideration of the subject which would naturally be expected from the Chairman. The noble Lord therefore declined, although he (Sir Charles Wood) was certain that no one else would have doubted the noble Lord's impartiality. The Commission, however, had been appointed. On Monday last the Commissioners held their first meeting, and they had been in communication with him upon the appoint-
 927 Gazette.
 SIR CHARLES WOOD  said, with regard to the observations of the hon. Member for Poole on the disposition of troops in India, he could assure the hon. Gentleman that the subject of disposing the troops in such a manner that the smallest number could be made most available had been very seriously considered by the authorities in India for the last three or four years, and the position of the barracks in each Presidency had been determined partly by this consideration and partly by that of the healthiness of the site. With regard to the reduction of troops, that was a subject on which the authorities in India were the best judges. As he was blamed by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Poole for having too many troops, and by the hon. Member for Windsor for having too few, probably he had hit somewhere about the happy medium. He was surprised to hear the hon. Member for Poole, who had been Secretary to the Board of Control, talk about our establishing an ecclesiastical establishment there. The hon. Gentleman must know that the principle on which clergymen were sent out to India was that of military chaplains. When a large body of servants of the State, whether civil or military, were sent out to a country where the whole population is Mahomedan, Hindoo, or heathen, it was not unreasonable that we should send out clergymen to minister to their spiritual wants, as we sent out medical men to administer to their bodily ailments. And when we sent out a number of clergymen we sent Bishops out to look after them, as when we sent out a number of surgeons a certain number of Inspectors General were sent to look after them. The hon. Gentleman opposite said that the Home Government had so constantly interfered with Sir John Lawrence that he had offered to resign. He did not know where the hon. Gentleman had got his information, and it was certainly a remarkable time to make the statement
 961 962
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, the Bishop of Goza was not appointed by the British Government but by the Court of Rome. In 1860 it was proposed to divide the Bishopric of Malta, and create a separate Bishopric of Goza, His noble Friend at the head of the Government assented to the arrangement on condition that the same restriction imposed on the Bishop of Malta should be imposed on the new Bishop. That arrangement was carried into effect last year, and instructions were given to the Governor of Malta to give effect to the existing state of the law, which was passed in 1828, for the purpose of limiting the ecclesiastical privileges of Malta, and that law exempted from the jurisdiction of the temporal tribunals the persons of the Governor and the Bishop.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, it would conduce to the ease both of the Indian Minister and the House if, instead of making so detailed a statement of the Indian Budget, the right hon. Gentleman would lay upon the table a document resembling the  Exposé de V Empire, 945 946 947 948 949
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade,
 926
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the Crown had not been advised to grant a Charter to the Company in question. There would be no objection to lay the Correspondence on the table when it was concluded. With regard to giving similar privileges to other Companies, every case must be decided on its merits.
 MR. SCULLY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Would it not be practicable to devise some convenient mode of levying a duty upon Home Grown Tobacco, so as to admit its profitable cultivation in these Countries without loss to the Imperial Revenue?
 MR. SCULLY  gave notice of his intention to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the subject in the course of the next Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry to say that, while he entirely recognized the importance of the subject and the principle on which the question proceeded, the Government had never yet seen their way to any plan for giving effect to the suggestion. It would be very desirable, if only for the purpose of giving satisfaction to the public mind, that there should be no absolute prohibition of the growth of any commodity in this country. He always had welcomed, and always should welcome, any proposal which purported to provide the means of raising Tobacco so as not to give a bounty upon the growth of it in this country, which would, of course, be hostile to the public interest. But hitherto all such attempts had failed. The plans which had been proposed had all proved unsatisfactory, and he did not think the best authorities were sanguine that any satisfactory plan could be proposed. He should be very glad indeed if his hon. Friend or any one else could solve the problem.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the Railway Commissioners had used every exertion to accelerate their inquiry into the Irish Railway system. They had been unable, however, hitherto either to make a report or to present the evidence, and they thought it better not to bring the subject before the public in an incomplete state.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he thought that a printed statement of the affairs of India should be prepared annually and placed in the hands of Members of that House.
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Evidence taken by the Rail-way Commissioners on the Irish Railway system will be laid before the House before the end of the Session?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether the Royal Commission to inquire into the grievances of Indian Officers has been appointed, the names of the Commissioners, when the Commission is likely to commence its labours, and whether the 717 Petitions presented to the House of Commons can be brought to the consideration of the Commission?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he would be very glad if the prospects so satisfactory to his right hon. Friend should be realized; but to his mind, matters did not look hopeful when he found that there was scarcely a charge on the expenditure side of the account which had not been increased. As to the Estimate for 1865–66, he felt bound to say he did not place the slightest confidence in it. His right hon. Friend had given them ample proof that those prospective Estimates were not worth a rush. They were completely  in nubibus. 957 958 959
 MR. VANSITTART  said, the hon. Gentleman had deprecated a merely theoretical policy in India, but was, in fact, himself a great theorist. He had set down the number of European troops necessary in India at 40,000 and no more, because that was the number in the country at the time of the mutiny; but it was notorious that the Sepoys had taken advantage of the small number of Europeans then in the country to try to upset our rule. He was far from sharing the opinion of the hon. Gentleman on this point, and thought it was to be regretted that the right hon. Baronet had paid so little attention to the very earnest recommendation of Sir John Lawrence and his Council to raise a loan of ten millions, in order to construct new barracks and other military works which! were urgently required for our European troops if we had the slightest regard for their health and safety. It appeared that for several reasons the Indian Government recommended that this outlay should not be charged to revenue. In the first place, they could hold out very little prospect of the revenue accounts for the next and following years being so elastic as the current year, although there was a deficit of £375,000. In reality it was £665,690; but it had been reduced to £375,000 by the right hon. Baronet delaying the construction of the transports to be built at home for the conveyance of our troops. In the second place, the Indian Government represented that the Bhootan war might be prolonged to an indefinite period owing to the difficulty in getting these savages to sue for peace; and as everything connected with that war has to be conveyed from a distance, it must necessarily be a costly one. Then, again, they had sold Government estates in Bengal
 950 "At all hazards, we must try and keep faith with the people of India by not prolonging it, and the expiration of this tax will do more to secure the confidence of the people of India than anything else that could have happened." 951 952
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he wished, in common with every Member of the Committee, to express his regret at the indisposition of his right hon. Friend (Sir Charles Wood) and his desire for his speedy recovery. Passing to the subject of his statement, he sincerely trusted that on another occasion they would be furnished with the Indian accounts at the commencement, instead of at the end of the Session. The question involved the welfare of 150,000,000 people, and the management of a revenue of £47,000,000, and, therefore, well deserved the earliest and most careful consideration of the House. There were many features of his right hon. Friend's statement which he could not regard with satisfaction. The financial affairs of India had not been placed before them in as clear and explicit a manner as could be wished. The Revenue Budget for 1865–6 amounted to £46,488,760, which, with the addition of the proposed loan of £1,200,000, made a total of £47,688,760. The estimated expenditure for the same year was stated thus:—In India, £40,469,540; in England, £6,717,390;making together£47,186,930; and then concluded with a surplus stated at £501,830, the total given being £47,688,760. Surely it was a gross inconsistency to be borrowing £1,200,000, with that apparent surplus of £501,830. He trusted that the Indian Department would direct its attention to that glaring discrepancy. The estimated sum required for the army and marine was £14,292,670; for public works for military purposes, £5,888,640; for law and justice, £4,942,650; for interest,
 955 "India is a vast continent, in which the amount of capital hitherto expended on public works, however considerable in amount, is quite insignificant compared with its wants." 956 "If we must look to India as the principal source of supply for cotton wool, we find three years of great demand, accompanied by high prices, have not had the effect of improving the length of the fibre or its substance. I therefore presume that there is no one in India who is com petent for the undertaking … Surelyin a country where no part of the produce of the soil is returned to the land, such as farmyard manure, it is more necessary that agricultural chymistry should supply the want, as cow-dung is used for fuel, and few horses or sheep are kept. India, therefore, requires a gardener." "You have not, however, continued the income-tax, producing upwards of £1,200,000 per annum, but you have proposed to raise a loan of precisely that amount, and to impose Customs duties of a most objectionable nature." bonâ fide
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for India, Whether it is true or not, as stated in the  United Service Gazette Some News,
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied that the Commissioners having recommended that the present state of the law relating to simony should be considered, it was undoubtedly the duty of the Government to take the subject into consideration, though he confessed he apprehended the
 983
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, he believed that Mr. Mackay's gun, which had been sent to Shoeburyness for trial, had already been to a certain extent tried by the Ordnance Select Committee, but no Report of those trials had yet been received at the War Office, as it was not usual to send in a Report until the trials were completed, which was not the case with Mr. Mackay's gun. He should state that no orders had been given for a competitive trial between the Mackay and any other gun. The gun sent to Woolwich was sent there for trial as to range, accuracy, and so on, but not for the purpose of comparing and testing it as to service with any other gun. To lay the Report of the trials upon the table before they were completed, and before the Secretary of State for War had decided upon the course to be adopted with regard to the gun, would be an unusual course. It was very improbable that the final Report would be received during the present Session, and therefore it was unnecessary for him to answer further the latter part of the hon. Gentleman's question.
 MR. CORRY  said, he rose to ask the Civil Lord of the Admiralty, in reference to the statement made by the First Lord, that, before carrying into effect the proposed scheme for the abolition of the rank of Master in the Royal Navy, it would be presented to Parliament and time given for considering it, Whether the final decision of the Admiralty on the subject will now be deferred till the next Session?
 MAJOR KNOX  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, Whether any Field Allowances has been granted to the Officers and Men who have applied for them from Aldershot? The officers wore put to great inconvenience, and the men wore out their clothes in consequence of the frequent marchings of flying columns.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON,  in reply, said, as he had received no notice of the question of the hon. and gallant Member, he could not give a positive answer. His impression, however, was that field allowances were never granted unless when troops were before an enemy. He would, however, make inquiry.
 COLONEL HERBERT  said, that the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington) stated the other day, in answer to the hon. Baronet (Sir Stafford Northcote), that the remuneration of Dr. Sutherland was fixed at £3 3s. a day, and was afterwards "continued at the same rate so long as he was completely occupied upon these duties." The noble Marquess added, that
 990 "As there are expenses for travelling and attendance arising out of the same, and as the subcommittees are offshoots and extensions of the Royal Commission, I am to request the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury will authorize the charges incidental thereon, being issued temporarily from army funds, and reclaimed, as in the case of Royal Commissions, from the Vote for Civil Contingencies." s. s.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that the letter of Sir Benjamin Hawes was written in consequence of an account having been sent in certified by Lord Panmure as President of the Sanitary Commission, for the sum of £500, at the rate of three guineas a day to be paid to Dr. Sutherland. That was before he (General Peel) came into office, and all he did was to ask the Treasury how the money, the charge for which had been sanctioned by the President of the Sanitary Commission, was to be paid?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he wished to remind the right hon. Gentleman (General Peel) that his sanction to the transaction embraced a little more than a reference to the Treasury as to how the money was to be paid, for, on a discussion respecting the accounts sent in, the question was brought to the right hon. Gentleman's notice, and the accounts included the charge of three guineas a day, as originally fixed by Lord Panmure. He was not sure what the hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (Colonel Herbert) objected to in this matter. As to the appointment itself, he (the Marquess of Hartington) had no more to say than he had said the other day. Dr. Sutherland was in the Crimea, and on the Sanitary Commission, and had great experience. He was employed by the Home Office on questions of this nature before he was sent to the Crimea. Without disparagement of the Army Medical Department, he thought Dr. Sutherland's knowledge better fitted him for such a position than any gentleman connected with the Army Medical Department, however great his experience might otherwise be. As long as the work performed by the Army Sanitary Commission was to be done, it was impossible to place a more useful member on the Committee than Dr. Sutherland. The Committee was not to be permanent, and the appoint-
 992
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he should be unable to give more than a general reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman, as there were many things which no one but the Secretary for India could deal with. He could only deal with general principles and the facts with which he was acquainted. He must, however, in the first instance, protest against any attempt to induce that House to pronounce
 1020 ex parte, 1021 primâ facie
 THE ATTORNEY GENLRAL  said, that the Government did not seek to withdraw the case from the judicial tribunal. The merits of the case depended upon the fact whether it was an act of the State. If so, of course the judicial tribunals had no jurisdiction.
 MR. T. G. BARING  said, that as a Member of the Committee to which the hon. and learned Gentleman had referred, he could not but think that the hon. and learned Gentleman had not read the evidence adduced before that Committee or its Report. He assured him that the Report of the Committee did not in any way recommend
 1024
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Waldegrave-Leslie), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Inclosure Commissioners have been able to make any arrangement by which Plans and Specifications for Farm Buildings and Cottages in Scotland proposed to be erected under Land improvement Acts may be submitted to an Architect or Surveyor acquainted with the Scotch system of erecting Farm Buildings and Cottages; and whether the Inclosure Commissioners have yet agreed to modify their requirements for Farm Labourers' Cottages in Scotland so as to make them more suited to the wants and habits of the people of Scotland and the climate of the country?
 MR. LIDDELL : Sir, the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary, in the opening of his remarks, threw on my hon. and learned Friend (Sir Hugh Cairns) the responsibility of any consequences that might arise from this discussion. I trust those consequences will not be serious, but I should like to point out that if responsibility rests on this side of the House for inquiring into the fate of imprisoned British subjects, a much greater responsibility attaches to the words and expressions of the Government on this occasion. Regarding this as a delicate matter, in which we are engaged in delicate negotiations with an irascible Sovereign, who has irresistible power over the captives, I think it would have been more prudent if the hon. Gentleman had not indulged in such terms as "puppet King" and similar expressions of that kind.
 MR. LIDDELL : I think the hon. Gentleman should have been more discriminating in his expressions considering the consequences that might ensue to the persons imprisoned. But, Sir, I have heard with the greatest satisfaction the altered tone of my hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Layard), from which I think we may derive an instructive lesson. The House is in the habit of hearing many discussions on Oriental matters, but the Foreign Office is now, it appears, impressed with the expediency of a non-interfering, a non-meddling, policy with respect to these semi-civilized Sovereigns. I cannot help thinking that the Sovereign of Abyssinia must have heard of our policy in China and Japan, and that those feelings of jealousy have been excited by the past history of our conduct with regard to China. The Sovereign has had the greatest objection to an English envoy obtaining entrance to his capital. I cannot help thinking that the beginning of these transactions was coincident with an attempt—happily frustrated—for the establishment
 1014
 MR. AYRTON  said, he could assure the House that he was right in stating that the Transport Committee reported in favour of the employment of the commercial marine for the transport service, instead of Government vessels.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he had been counsel for the plaintiff in the appeal. He would not enter into the merits of the case, as they would probably have to be considered at a future time, when the House would be surprised to learn the remarkable conduct of the Indian Government in connection with a suit in which they were the defendants. He would only venture to hope that the suit might be allowed to proceed without further delays, and that if justice were not done in India the parties would be enabled to obtain it at the hands of that House.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he had given notice of his desire to bring another subject connected with India before the House—namely, the course the Government was taking in setting up a steam communication between this country and India; but, in consequence of the absence of the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for India (Sir Charles Wood) he was unable to proceed with it. The subject, however, was a most important one, and he was unwilling to postpone it without making a few observations. A Committee, presided over by his hon. Friend the Member
 1023
 MR. LAYARD : The expression was not applied to the Emperor Theodore, but to the supposed Emperor of Abyssinia.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I can assure the hon. and learned Gentleman and the House that if Her Majesty's Government have refrained from entering fully into this painful subject, it is from no desire to screen their own conduct, or avoid full inquiry into the whole facts of the case. The reason why my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the other House of Parliament, and myself in this House, have declined to enter into the subject was simply this:—In the first place, we feared lest anything should be said which might be conveyed—and it certainly would have been conveyed—to the Emperor of Abyssinia, which might lead either to the death of those unfortunate persons who are now held in captivity by him, or to their being treated with even greater severity than that with which they have hitherto been visited; and, secondly, I felt it would scarcely be fair to Consul Cameron, before receiving a full explanation from him, that statements should be made reflecting on his official character. But, after the statements we have heard to-night, and after the gross misstatements which have been made in a certain portion of the press, I think it my duty, if the House will kindly permit me, to enter at some length into the subject. I shall endeavour, as far as possible, to avoid anything that would lead to unfortunate results; but if anything does happen from what I shall state tonight, the responsibility must entirely rest upon those who have forced the Government to make these explanations. Before going further, I would make one remark on what I before stated with reference to the  Pall Mall Gazette 1000 Revue des Deux Monies, 1001 "a distinct assurance that he renounced all idea of conquest in Egypt and at Massowah; for that Her Majesty's Government had latterly remonstrated in the strongest terms against the intentions of the Viceroy of Egypt to attack Abyssinia, and that the then reigning Viceroy had
 1002
 MR. LAYARD : It has not been laid before the House, but if the hon. Member so desires it shall be furnished. Such was the nature of the instructions sent to Mr. Plowden. The fact upon which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) relies—namely, the existence of a treaty, which entitled King Theodore to send a mission to this country and bound us to receive it, is entirely at variance with the facts; for when Theodore came to the throne, the first thing he did was, as I have stated, to refuse to acknowledge the treaty entered into with his predecessor. As Ras Ali was not the Emperor of Abyssinia, but held a position somewhat similar to the old French  maire du palais, 1003 "On the 31st of October, 1860, 3,000 rebels, with their leader, Gerat, were defeated by the Royal Troops near the western bank of the Taccazy, and mercilessly butchered in cold blood; in fact, so inexorable was the King, that even their wives and children—contrary to former custom—were indiscriminately condemned to perpetual slavery. The other statement is that of M Lejean, who, in the  Revue lies Deux Mondes 1004 Standard, 1005 "I wrote immediately (to the King) stating that I was deputed to present him with certain gifts and a letter of introduction; also to discuss with him regarding the future; that when Mr. Plowden was killed there were two points under discussion—namely, one, a treaty; two, the sending an embassy to England. I offered to take these up where Mr. Plowden had left them." 1006 1007 1008 1009 "Mr. Rassam's antecedents, his status, and his qualifications are greatly misunderstood and mis-
 1010 The Times, 1011 1012 1013
 MR. LAYARD : Yes.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether, during the Recess, the Government will take the present state of the Law of Simony into consideration, with a view to its simplification and improvement?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he rose to call attention to the inadequate stipends of the Minor Canons and Non-Capitular Members of the Cathedral of Carlisle and of other Cathedrals of the New Foundation. He said the case was shortly this. The cathedrals of the new foundation were re-founded and established at the time of the Reformation, and the inferior members of them were not members of distinct corporations, as in the old cathedrals, but stipendiaries dependant for what they received on the general revenues of the chapter. Taking a prebendary as the general standard, these non-capitular members had stipends in proportion, the minor canons having one-half. During the last century all the payments fell into abeyance, and when the Act of 1840 was under consideration it was found that the deans and chapters were in receipt of the greater part of the revenue. When the Act of 1840 was passed the cathedrals
 985 986 987
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask whether the despatch from which the hon. Gentleman was reading had been laid before the House?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that Consul Cameron had been a long time in the Consular service on the east coast of the Black Sea, had acquired great influence in that part of the country, and had shown himself well fitted to deal with half civilized tribes. He was not aware that he was a captain in Her Majesty's service, though he had been a volunteer in the defence of Kars. He thought his appointment as Consul a proper one. As a friend of that gentleman he protested against the course taken in quoting from despatches which had not been laid upon the table, reflecting upon Mr. Cameron. That was a most unusual practice, and his hon. Friend was not justified in resorting to it. As it was, Mr. Cameron would run the risk of being-condemned on the faith of his hon. Friend's speech, but the House would do well to suspend its judgment until the despatches were laid upon the table, and hon. Members could judge for themselves. Mr. Cameron was sent out to Abyssinia in 1861, his instructions being to make Massowah his headquarters, and obtain a knowledge of the political state of Abyssinia. Now, if a gentleman was not to travel in the interior how could he make himself acquainted with the political state of the country? and if he was instructed to make Massowah his headquarters, did this not mean that he should travel elsewhere? His instructions really authorized him to go to the capital, Gondah, and the only
 1015 1016
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that it
 984
 MR. HENNESSY  said, he wished to call attention to conduct on the part of the Secretary of State for India (Sir Charles Wood) which amounted, in his opinion, to a denial of justice, and an attempt to overrule the prerogative of the Crown as exercised by the Queen in Council. The right hon. Gentleman was unable to be present to-night from illness, but he understood that the Attorney General would represent him. The subject to which he wished to call the attention of the House involved a great delay of justice, and it concerned the property of the Begum Somroo. She had always been a faithful friend of the British Government, but on her death, in 1836, her estates were seized, and up to this time the Government of India had prevented the dispute which arose in consequence of that seizure being brought to a termination in the courts of law. To show the character of that lady, he need only refer to a letter from Lord William Bentinck, written to her the day before he left India, in which he spoke in the warmest terms of her charitable and benevolent disposition, and expressed a wish that she might long be spared to be a solace to the unfortunate. At her death, a large portion of her estates was seized by the British Government. They seized her papers also, and to this day had refused to give them up or allow copies to be taken of them. Mr. Dyce Sombre, her adopted son and her heir, who had received this property partly by deed of gift and partly by will, protested against this seizure, and furnished the Government with copies of the engagement between the Begum in 1805 and Lord Wellesley, and of other documents which showed that the property was his. Some delay occurred at the time. The matter was brought before the Home Government and the Court of Directors, and at length the Court of Directors decided that they were the owners of this property and refused to
 1017 "The Supreme Government have deputed Mr. Moorfield to conduct the Dyce Sombre case. You are to instruct Mr. Thornton to try it." 1018 1019
 MR. J. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for War, If he has received any Report of the Competitive Trial which took place on the 20th, 22nd, and 23rd instant, between Mackay's 12-pounder windage muzzle-loader Gun, and the Armstrong 12-pounder breech-loader service Gun; the Mackay Gun firing smooth cast-iron projectiles without expansion, and the Armstrong lead-coated projectiles without any windage; and whether he has any objection to lay such Report upon the table?
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the House ought to know that the minor canons were in almost all cases a distinct corporation, and possessed distinct corporate property. By a Bill of last year, power was given to deal with the property belonging to certain minor canons, enabling them to commute their estates to the Commissioners, whereby they might be better administered, and the moneys of the minor canons might thus be increased. He knew no other property out of which provision could be made for the minor canons, than property transferred from the sinecure rectories and suspended canonries to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and property belonging to the capitular bodies. In many cases, he wa3 aware the minor canons were paid much less than their services merited. The difficulty was in knowing out of what fund you were to provide for their better payment. As an Ecclesiastical Commissioner he considered himself bound to take care that the additional payment should not come out of funds appropriated to give spiritual assistance where it was most required—that is to say, to make adequate provision for clergymen engaged in parochial duties. That was the trust imposed upon the fund administered by the Commissioners, and until it was discharged he should think it doubtful whether any portion of the property ought to be handed over to the minor canons. With regard to the property belonging to the different capitular bodies, it was not generally recollected that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had nothing to do with that property except by agreement with those bodies in cases where they might desire to commute fluctuating incomes for a fixed sum. At all events, if the capitular bodies were willing to charge their life interest in the capitular estates in order to provide a more adequate fund for the remuneration of the minor canons, the Ecclesiastical Commissioners would raise no objection arising out of any interest which they might have in these estates. Some arrangement of this kind might be made for the benefit of the minor canons, but in the absence of any compulsory power to deal with the capitular bodies and their estates, he was afraid the Governments would find considerable difficulty in arranging the matter. If the Government, however, could see their way clear to the proposal of a measure next Session, providing a
 989
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that as the representative of a cathedral town, he could bear out the statements which had been made by the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down. The three minor canons at Peterborough received only £500 a year amongst them. They had no chance of preferment, and were expected to be in attendance at all times, whilst the canons were not required to be in residence more than three months. Surely it was discreditable to the Church of England
 988
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in the only document which had issued from the Treasury on the subject—namely, the letter of the 11th of June, 1858, signed by Sir Charles Trevelyan—the question raised was considered one quite of departmental routine and practice, and was not, therefore, referred
 991
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not acquainted with the facts of the case, nor accurately acquainted with the law, until the Motion of the hon. Gentleman was placed on the paper; but on communicating then with the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, he found that in 1850 the number of minor canons connected with the Cathedral of Carlisle was fixed at two, and that their income was from £150 to £200 a year each. He was informed that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners had no power to increase these incomes, but that it was in the power of the Dean and Chapter to do so. As his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) had suggested, the difficulty was to know out of what fund the increase of these stipends was to come. In many cases the duties performed by the parochial clergy were more important than those performed by the minor canons, and the surplus funds in the hands of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners were appropriated as they ought to be—namely, in providing spiritual instruction for the people at large. If, however, the object of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bentinck) was to enable the Dean and Chapter, out of the funds belonging to them, to make provision which now they have no power to make for the minor canons, he should be glad to consider a Bill on that subject. He quite agreed with his right hon. Friend that it would be objectional to divert any portion of the funds which were now applicable by law to the increase of small benefices, and apply it for the benefit of the minor canons. But if the capitular bodies were inclined to make such a provision out of the capitular estates, and were now prevented by the law from doing so, it would he only reasonable to remove any such obstacle.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that immediately after the discussion which took place a short time ago on the observations made by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Hastings (Mr. Waldegrave-Leslie) with reference to the rules and practice of the Inclosure Commissioners, he addressed a letter to the Commissioners, stating the nature of the objections to their alleged practices, and requesting them to furnish him with a full Report as to the rules upon which they acted, and the manner in which those rules were carried out. That Report had just been received, and it would be laid upon the table of the House immediately.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I rise, Sir, to call attention to a matter of great interest to a considerable number of families, and which would be a subject of interest to the whole country if the circumstances were as generally known as it might be expected they would have been. I refer to the imprisonment of some of our fellow-subjects in the kingdom of Abyssinia. At the present moment the English Consul accredited by Her Majesty to Abyssinia, two English missionaries, and several British subjects are in confinement in that country, and most of them have been in confinement for a period of some eighteen or nineteen months. The first news of their imprisonment came to this country with the
 993 "No change for the better has taken place in the state of Abyssinian affairs. The captives, Messrs. Stern, Rosenthal, and the English Consul, have not only not been set at liberty, but have suffered from great violence." "that our unfortunate countrymen were confined in a tent next to that of the Emperor, all intercourse with them being forbidden under the severest penalties. Besides this vigilant watch, each European was chained to a trustworthy dependent of the Imperial household, who was relieved at short intervals. The chain being only four feet long, the prisoner could scarcely move without the knowledge of the guard." 994 "To receive and protect any Ambassador, Envoy, or Consul whom his Majesty of Abyssinia or his successors may see fit to appoint, and will equally preserve inviolate all the rights and privileges of such Ambassador, Envoy, or Consul." "In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, one God in Trinity, chosen by God, King of Kings, Theodoros of Ethiopia to Her Majesty Victoria, Queen of England. I hope your Majesty is in good health. By the power of God I am well. …. Mr. Plowden, and my late Grand Chamberlain, the Englishman Bell, used to tell me that there is a great Christian Queen, who loves all Christians. When they said to me this,' We are able to make you known to her, and to establish friendship between you,' then in those times I was very glad. I gave them my love, thinking that I had found your Majesty's goodwill. All men are subject to death, and my enemies, thinking to injure me, killed these my friends. But, by the power of God, I have exterminated those enemies, not leaving one alive, though they were of my own family, that I may get, by the power of God, your friendship. I was
 995 996 "There are probably several causes for the altered demeanour of the King of Abyssinia towards Captain Cameron, the British Consul. It is understood that his dignity is grievously wounded by the silence, which he accepts as an
 997 "Inquiry into the 'other circumstances' alluded to in paragragh 9 would inconveniently lengthen this memorandum, which is intended only as a brief statement of the existing difficulty, and a suggestion as to the best means of overcoming it. If any further effort is to be made to release the captives, it must be by means of an Embassy, headed by an officer of rank, who should be supported by such a suite as would give dignity to his mission; a secretary (a military officer), two or three officers of the scientific corps or departments, and a medical officer, should be of the party; these could be supplied either from England, or from Bombay, or from Aden." "Theodoros is reported to have expressed himself very indignantly that the Queen's Government should have sent an Asiatic—a more subordinate—on a mission to him, and, it is said, he does not intend to take the least notice of him." 998 999
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Will the hon. Gentleman lay upon the table the documents from which he has quoted?
 MR. BOVILL  said, if it were an act of the State the Government might say there was no remedy by the ordinary tribunals, but in some recent cases it had been shown that where, by an act of the State, injustice or wrong was done there was a tribunal to which appeal could be made—the House of Commons. In the case of the Nawab of Surat such an appeal was made, and the result was the passing of an Act of Parliament. He admitted that the time had not come to consider the merits of this case, but he hoped one result of the discussion would be to prevent further delays, and to lead to some speedy and satisfactory termination of the suit.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he agreed that it was inexpedient to call upon the House to consider questions which were being litigated before judicial tribunals, but would have been glad to have heard from the
 1022
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether it is true that a pension has been granted by the Lord Chancellor to Mr. Winslow, late one of the Masters in Lunacy; and, if so, the amount of such pension, the grounds upon which it was granted, and whether it was refused by a former Chancellor?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the pension granted by the present Lord Chancellor to Mr. Winslow is one of £1,000 a year, by an order made upon the 3rd of February, 1863. The grounds upon which it was granted were these:— Mr. Winslow served for nearly thirty years, thirteen of which were in the office of Commissioner of Lunacy, and seventeen more as Master in Lunacy. On the 4th of February, 1859, he presented a petition to Lord Chancellor Chelmsford, stating that he desired to retire upon a pension, and that he was labouring under serious and permanent infirmities. That petition was supported by unexceptional certificates from two physicians and one surgeon. Before, however, anything was done upon that petition, Mr. Winslow was obliged to resign his office, owing to the pressure of pecuniary difficulties: and Lord Chancellor
 1041 "That it would give him great pleasure to see that the Lord Chancellor had taken a favourable view of Mr. Winslow's petition, and that he believed it would be gratifying to the whole profession."
 MR. VERNER  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been given to the proceedings which are stated to have taken place at a public dinner in Dublin in honour of Mr. Gavan Duffy, at which the health of Her Majesty was reluctantly and not very respectfully proposed, and received with general hissing and disapprobation, and likewise to the presence there of two Members of that House, the Members for Youghal and Dungarvan, the former one of Her Majesty's Counsel, and the latter holding the Commission of the Peace, neither of whom is represented to have expressed disapproval of the disloyal conduct of the assembly, and what steps the Irish Government intend to take in the matter?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the attention of the Privy Council had been called to the state of the Canal Basin and the water in it, and to the fact that the local authority for sanitary purposes stated that they were unable to suppress the nuisance. A communication was therefore addressed by the Privy Council to the vestry, who explained the steps they had taken during the last fifteen years with re-
 1044
 MR. J. J. POWELL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any Convention has been entered into with Foreign Governments for the purpose of procuring an authoritative explanation on points of Foreign Law at issue in any case or suit now pending in this country?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, I very gladly acknowledge the tone of moderation and temper in which the hon. Gentleman has dealt with this very important subject. It may, perhaps, be not without significance to consider for a moment what the effect of laying the evidence before the House and the public has been—for if we had come to a Resolution on this very grave question some days ago upon the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield), we should, upon the admission of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hunt), have proceeded upon grounds for which there was not a shadow of foundation. Sir, the other day the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Cranbourne) seemed to suggest that I ought not to take any part in this discussion, and that I could not do so without an appearance of partiality. I suppose, because the House did me the honour of putting me on the Committee for the purpose of examining the witnesses, the noble Lord assumed that I could not give my opinion of the case without prejudice. I am surprised at such an objection coming from the noble Lord. I am surprised the noble Lord did not recollect that on a former occasion he occupied an exactly similar position. This House, urged thereto very much by the noble Lord, had driven another very eminent Member of the Government from office, by a vote which I rather think now every Member of this House who voted upon the subject regrets. The noble Lord sat upon the Education Committee of last year; but, notwithstanding, he did not think it unsuitable for him after the Report had been made to the House to take a great, a strong, and a leading part in the discussion of the Report. Therefore I do not think I can be justly accused of entering upon this matter with prejudice. Having had the great advantage of hearing the evidence from day to day, of seeing the witnesses under examination, and of hearing the discussions which took place in Committee, I now offer on behalf of one who if he had been present would have needed no such assistance—on behalf of the Lord Chancellor in his absence, to state to the House the views which occur to me upon the evidence. In the first place, I quite admit that the House should be sensitively jealous of that which is uppermost in the minds of men in connection with this subject—namely, the purity of official administration. But there are other matters also which the House will do well to consider. There has been laid upon
 1073 1074 "In all these cases are the persons charged offered an opportunity of making their defence and giving in their own statement?—Yes, before we conclude any case, we give the examination to the individual to look at, and ask whether he has any observation to make upon it, and whether there are any corrections which, in his opinion, should be made, and he has also an opportunity of sending his remarks to the Lord Chancellor." "As to the Registrars, these gentlemen appear to hold an anomalous position, occasionally dis-
 1075 1076 1077 1078 "After a sleepless night I can think of nothing better than the conclusions I mentioned yesterday. It is useless to attempt to make any arrangement founded on his retaining his office. It would be discreditable to me his being allowed to remain. He must leave the country immediately; Germany will be the best place of residence, but care must be taken to fix it in a country where the foreign holder of one of his acceptances could not sue him. All that he can do is to devote himself to the education of his children abroad; It will be greatly for the future benefit of his sons if they become good German and French Scholars. I
 1079 1080 1081 protégé 1082 1083 1084 "Leeds, July 28, 1894. "I hereby certify that I have been consulted by Mr. Henry S. Wilde, on account of a failure in his sight, which was a serious hindrance to him in the performance of the duties of his office. Mr. Wilde first consulted me in August, 1863. At his age I cannot look for any improvement in his vision.—SAMUEL HEY, F.R.C.S." 1085 "How would you reconcile that statement with what you say in your petition, that you had for some time past been afflicted with a failure in your sight, and that it has now become so serious that you are no longer able to perform satisfactorily the duties of your office?—If I had had work to execute at night, I do not hesitate to say that I could not have performed it; that I should not have been able to have continued; I have had as many as twenty bills to do by candlelight, and I could not do it. I may state that sometimes, when I have gone from Mr. Hey's steps, I have had difficulty to find my way down. And yet it has never occurred to you to make any claim for retiring?—I did not do so; Mr. Hey suggested to me that I should get relaxation, but I did not find the inconvenience so great as to induce me to do so. Chairman: Mr. Hey did suggest?—Yes, he did. Colonel Pennant: When was that?—Some time before." "That your petitioner has for some time past been afflicted with a failure in his sight, and that the same has now become so serious that he is no longer able satisfactorily to perform the duties of his office, as appears by the certificate of Samuel Hey, a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, practising at Leeds, hereunto annexed, and is consequently desirous of retiring." 1086 1087 s d. 1088 "Sunday." My dear Charles,—I am much disappointed at your not coming down to-morrow …. As to Richard, it is hopeless; let him understand that I neither can nor will ask for any place for him. …. I will increase his allowance to £1,000 per annum if he will go and live in Dresden or some other proper place, and educate his children there, where they can be well brought up." "Richard,—Nothing will induce me to give you the place of Clerk at the Table if it should become) vacant; you have been a disgrace and a source of infinite sorrow and reproach to me during the last ten years. I have given you every opportunity of amendment, but there is no hope off you, nor have I the least confidence in your ever having better principles. I will not see you again. Your best course will be to go to the Continent, and try, by attention to your wife and children, to make some amends to them for the grievous injury you have inflicted on them." 1089 "Accordingly, on Saturday, the 18th of February, I proceeded to Lincoln's Inn, where the Lord Chancellor was sitting. The Lord Chancellor had risen for the day, and when I went in I announced he him what I had come about. The Lord hancellor was very angry. Ho said I had taken a very great liberty in pressing for any appointment for his son, and I remember perfectly that he did a thing which he never did before. He got up and left the room, and went to his carriage without taking any notice of me. I think it was on that day I saw Mr. Richard Bethell, and I told him I would fight his battles no longer, and that I could do nothing with the Lord Chancellor at all." 1090 "That this House having considered the Report of the Select Committee on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court, and the evidence taken by it, agrees with the Committee in the opinion that the facts which are established acquit the Lord Chancellor from all charge in the matters to which it refers, except that of haste and want of caution in granting a pension to Mr. Wilde; but this House is of opinion
 1091
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  begged to call his hon. Friend to order. He was referring to a past debate, and that was the more unjust as the hon. Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield) was not in his place.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the position in which we find ourselves placed by the determination just expressed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, appears to me, I confess, somewhat extraordinary, and is perhaps one that is not very convenient. ["Hear!"] Hon. Gentlemen opposite, I admit, can put their own construction on my words, but my meaning was simply this—that when notice is given of a Motion, and we have an opportunity of considering its terms, it is certainly not in a high degree convenient that we should have suddenly substituted for it another which is not upon the notice paper, and the terms of which we have had no such opportunity of considering. But, fortunately, we are in a great measure relieved from that difficulty by the tenour of the speech of my right hon. Friend behind me (Mr. Bouverie), who, whatever may be the terms of his Motion, distinctly says that he tenders it to the House as a vote of want of confidence in the Lord Chancellor, with the express purpose and intention of driving that noble and learned Lord from office. I do not wonder that under these circumstances hon. Gentlemen opposite should so willingly accept it, or that it should appear to them to be so convenient a Motion. But, of course, I need not say that if that be the case, the House and the country will not be misled by this change in the form of the Motion, and they will not be led to think—whatever any hon. Gentlemen may say who in this House are no longer subject to those judicial obligations and sanctions to which they are subject in Committee— the House and the country will not, I say, be led to think that this is the mode in which we shall be likely best to support the decision of the Committee which we have appointed. The House has a duty on this occasion—a very grave one—to discharge to its Committee, to the Lord Chancellor, and to the public. Well, Sir,
 1121 "That this House having considered the Report of the Select Committee on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court, and the evidence taken by it, agrees with the Committee in the opinion that the facts which are established acquit the Lord Chancellor from all charge in the matters to which it refers, except that of haste and want of caution in granting a pension to Mr. Wilde; but this House is of opinion that some further check should he placed by law upon the grant of pensions to the holders of legal offices." "They must be allowed to observe, in conclusion, that while the facts which they believe to be established by the evidence, acquit the Lord Chancellor from all charge, except that of haste and want of caution in granting a pension to Mr. Wilde." 1122 1123 1124 1125 "The statement of Mr. [larding is irreconcilable with that of Mr. Bethell and Mr. Welch. Mr. Harding's statement, if true, discloses a corrupt bargain between the three parties; if false, it is a gross attempt at extortion. One or other of these conclusions would be established by a judicial investigation of the facts of the case; but, as each of them involves the liability to a charge of a highly penal character, your Committee, not having the opportunity of examining witnesses upon oath, or of bringing the persons inculpated to a formal trial, purposely abstain from expressing any opinion as to which of the two views above mentioned ought to be adopted. They consider it their duty to observe that the indisputable facts are such as to render it essential to the public interest that the case should, as soon as possible, be made the subject of legal investigation." 1126 1127 1128 1129 "Non ego paucis Offendar maculis, quas aut incuria fudit, Aut humana parum cavit natura,"
 MR. HENLEY : I am one of those who were unable to vote for the Motion of my hon. Friend the Member for the county of Northampton, because I thought the language was so obscure that it might possibly leave the sting of corruption which my hon. Friend did not intend. But the speech of the hon. and learned Attorney General has laid down such strange propositions that I cannot help commenting upon them. The Motion before the House took into consideration the whole conduct of the Lord Chancellor; but the Amendment of the Lord Advocate altogether passed by what took place elsewhere, and confined itself to the narrow ground of what passed before the Leeds Bankruptcy Committee. It is hardly likely that the House would so narrow the question. But the Attorney
 1131
 VISCOUNT PALMBRSTON : I merely wish to state to the House that we are anxious not to give them more trouble than is necessary, and that, therefore, we will accept the decision upon the question of adjournment as an expression of the feeling of the House upon the original question before it. We shall, therefore, not trouble the House to divide again on the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT , as a Member of the Committee, wished to say
 1132
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that he proposed to negative the admission of these words, and afterwards to move the insertion of those of which he had given notice.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : Sir, I have given notice of an Amendment to the Motion of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, which, in consequence of the Lord Advocate having proposed another Amendment, I am now precluded from moving; but should the Motion of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire be negatived—as I trust it will be—the question for the House to decide will be what words should be substituted, and I shall then propose my Resolution. Hon. Gentlemen who, with me, are on this side of the House stand in a different position from that of the hon. Members opposite. They cannot be expected to place any confidence in Her Majesty's Government; but, as forming Her Majesty's Opposition, they may be expected to be willing to express want of confidence in them. But Gentlemen on this side of the House cannot be included in the same category, and I, for one, during the whole of this Parliament now about to expire, have placed my confidence in the present Government, and have been in the habit of supporting them by my votes and voice. I must, however, make one exception in regard to my confidence in Her Majesty's Government, and must distinctly declare that I have no confidence in the Lord Chancellor's administration of his high office. Such, I think, must he the feeling of everybody reading the evidence taken by the Committee, respecting the Leeds Bankruptcy Court, with an impartial desire to arrive at a sound conclusion. I put aside all question of corruption, and I think the Resolution of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire objectionable because— though not perhaps explicitly—it does more or less mix up the Lord Chancellor with the corruption which, undoubtedly, exists among other people. Now, the Committee which was as impartially nominated as any Committee could be, came to the conclusion that no imputation of personal corruption could be made against the Lord Chancellor with respect to the appointment of Mr. Welch. I concur in that conclusion, and I trust the House will also concur in it. I must admit that the facts as originally laid before the House looked ugly enough, and were calculated to cast a suspicion on the great head of the law; but the examination of the case by the Committee fairly dispelled those imputations;
 1113 1114 "When men like these,' the patriot cries, To honours and employments rise, I ask no favour, seek no place, From such, employment is disgrace.'" 1115 1116 "I do not believe I ever sent for Mr. Leman except on the 4th of October." "Mr. Leman's memory some years ago was much better than lately. I have no recollection of sending for Mr. Leman at that time, nor do I think I did so." "Having seen the statement of the Lord Chancellor this morning, I looked over my papers and found one dated the 6th of November, fixing a meeting with him for the next morning." 1117 quis custodiet ipsos custodes
 MR. DENMAN  said, that since he had the honour of a seat in that House he had never risen to address it under a sense of deeper responsibility or with deeper pain; because he considered it one of the most important questions that had come before the House during his time, affecting the character not only of the Government, but of public men generally. The question had been brought forward by the hon, Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) in a tone and spirit highly creditable to him and becoming its great importance. At the same time it was all the more incumbent upon the House to be wary lest, owing to the very moderation of the tone and temper of the hon. Gentleman, they should be led to adopt a Resolution that might inflict the gravest and crudest injustice upon the person against whom it was directed. There was, perhaps, no man in that House who personally had less reason to rise and defend the Lord Chancellor. He had scarcely any acquaintance with him, except that arising from a formal introduction as a member of the profession, and the only occasion on which his public duty had brought him into close relations with the noble and learned Lord in that House was once when, with that haste and violence of manner which did not render him a popular Member of that House, the noble and learned Lord, then Attorney General, told him that a certain claim which he (Mr. Denman) advocated, and upon which he contended the House
 1102 "That the evidence taken before the Committee on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court discloses that a great facility exists for obtaining public appointments by corrupt means;" 1103 apropos "That such evidence and also that taken before a Committee of the House of Lords in the case of Leonard Edmunds shows a laxity of practice and want of caution on the part of the Lord Chancellor in sanctioning the grant of retiring pensions to public officers over whose heads grave charges are impending, and in filling up the vacancies made by the retirement of such officers, whereby great encouragement has been given to corrupt practices." 1104 "Laxity of practice and want of caution on the part of the Lord Chancellor in sanctioning the grant of retiring pensions to public officers over whose heads grave charges are impending, and in filling up the vacancies made by the retirement of such officers, whereby great encouragement has been given to corrupt practices." in pari delicto 1105 in pari delicto 1106 gravamen 1107 1108 "I have no recollection of any such thing. The petition, affidavit, and certificate were presented to me, and I ought in strictness to have read them all; I do not think that I did. I probably looked at the petition and saw the allegation, and I may have assumed that the medical certificate was in conformity with it." 1109 "Such laxity and want of caution were, in the opinion of this House, highly reprehensible, and calculated to throw discredit on the administration of the high officers of State." 1110 1111 "That such laxity and want of caution, even in the absence of any improper motive, are, in the opinion of this House, highly reprehensible, and calculated to throw discredit on the administration of the high offices of the State," 1112
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, the subject was one of considerable importance, and Her Majesty's Government had been in communication with most of the Foreign Governments with reference to it. The papers had been laid before the Lord Chancellor, but no Convention had yet been entered into.
 MR. DISRAELI : I cannot help thinking that the proposition of the noble Lord is one which the House will not find it convenient to adopt. The subject has been discussed very amply to-night, and with reference to the objection that the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman is not in print, I cannot forget that the Amendment of the Government has also not been printed; but, even under that disadvantage, we were prepared to give it a due and fair consideration. I also think that, considering the position in which the House is now placed, there is an air of mockery in proposing to adjourn the debate. It appears to me that this is a question upon which the House ought at once to pronounce a decision. The House has been unusually well attended throughout a lengthened debate, and it is in my opinion quite qualified to come to a decision at once. I trust, therefore, that the noble Lord will re-consider his proposition, and will allow us to pronounce an opinion upon the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman. If, however, he persists in his strange proposal to adjourn the debate—whether to the next Parliament or not we are not informed—I shall, under the peculiar circumstances, consider it my duty, however generally unwilling to resist such a proposal from a Minister, to oppose the adoption of that course. [ Cries of
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  said, he had intended to remain perfectly silent in this debate until he heard the speech which had just been delivered by the Attorney General. He sat on the Committee to which had been referred the disclosures connected with the Leeds Bankruptcy Court, and which, unanimously absolving the Lord Chancellor from any corrupt motives, imputed to him want of caution in granting retiring allowances. But when
 1130
 MR. HOWES  would then only say that he cordially agreed with the terms of the Motion as proposed by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock, who expressed fully the sentiment of the Committee. But he could not agree with the Amendment of his right hon. Friend the Lord Advocate, because it simply echoed so much of the Report as acquitted the Lord Chancellor, and took no notice whatever of that part which condemned him. The part of the Report which condemned him was that which stated that the grave duty was imposed upon him of seeing that certain facts were ascertained, that the person on whom that duty was laid was no less a person than the Lord Chancellor of England, that the object for which that duty was imposed was the public good, but that that duty was not done. It seemed to him that, having said so much, whether they used the word "haste," or "want of caution," or "negligence," they had said all that was needful, and that the same High Officer having been guilty of neglect of a similar kind in the case of Mr. Edmunds, it was absolutely necessary that some notice should be taken by the House of that dereliction of duty.
 MR. HOWES  could assure the House that he was not going to make any further reference to that former debate except to express regret that it had occurred. There was only one expression used by the hon. Member for Mallow (Mr. Longfield) on that occasion to which he wished to allude.
 MR. HOWES , as the Chairman of the Committee, rose to express his strong approval of the course just taken by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, in accepting the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock. The announcement which that hon. Member makes relieves that part of the House (the Opposition) from the possibility of what might be a serious imputation—namely, the possibility of its being supposed that that Motion rested upon a party basis. It relieved himself personally, and also he believed several other Members of the Committee, from some difficulty; for some of them could not have agreed to the Motion as it originally stood. The Committee were absolutely unanimous in all their resolutions and decisions—there was no one point on which they differed, setting aside those minute shades of difference which must arise when almost any question has to be considered by different minds. He would only make one reference to what took place last week. He had left London, as other Members of the Committee had done, feeling certain that no notice whatever could be taken of that matter until the evidence was printed; and he regretted deeply that any notice of it whatever had then been taken.
 MR. HUNT : Sir, the Lord Advocate having moved an Amendment, I believe I am entitled to make an observation. I do not rise to occupy the time of the House by going again into matters with which I fear I have already wearied the House too much; but my right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Bouverie) having intimated his intention of moving an Amendment, of the terms of which he gave notice early in the evening, in case my Resolution should be negatived, all I have to say is that his Amendment entirely expresses my own views, and the views which I believe I have expressed in the remarks that I made at the opening of the debate. And as I understand that my right hon. Friend opposite and certain other Members think the words which I have placed on the paper do not with sufficient explicitness exonerate the Lord Chancellor from the imputation of personal corruption, I am sure the House will feel that I did so in
 1118
 MR. HUNT : Sir, in rising to move the Resolution of which I have given notice, I cannot disguise from myself the grave nature of the task I have undertaken. That Resolution is, in fact, a vote of censure upon one of the highest functionaries of State—upon that functionary who is called the Keeper of the Queen's Conscience, the Supreme Judge of the Court of Chancery, one who acts in a twofold capacity in the House of Lords—as the supreme Judge of the highest court of judicature in the kingdom, and the Speaker of that august Assembly in its deliberations upon public affairs. To direct a vote of censure upon so high a functionary is, I say, a grave matter, and I have not undertaken to do so without duly considering the responsibility I thus incur. If I have undertaken this task lightly, frivolously, or upon insufficient grounds, the censure will recoil upon my own head. On the other hand, if I can show that there are real and substantial grounds for proposing this Resolution, then, I think, I shall only have discharged my duty to the country. 1046 primâ facie 1047 "When was it that you first applied to him? —I should think I asked Mr. Bethell in 1862 or 1863: I forget which. Did you apply to him again in 1864?—I did. What time in 1864?— When I was ill he used sometimes to come and ask how I was; that was in January and February. When I found myself getting better, or shortly after that, I mentioned it to him; I said I should be glad if he could exercise any influence, if he would be kind enough to do it. What did he say?—He said he was not then as he used to be, in office—that is, near his father; but he certainly would if he could, if he had an opportunity. And I may mention to you that I have often assisted Mr. Bethell, and others, too, in-eluding Members of your honourable House, frequently." "Yes, as friends; and one noble Lord now owes me £8,000 and odd. We settled accounts some time ago; he is a connection of Lord Palmerston. I asked him to help me, and I believe he would do it for me if he could." "I have assisted many friends from time to time, perhaps incautiously, it may be foolishly; and, among the rest, I have assisted Members of the House of Commons; two, I know I have assisted, and I have lost nothing by them." 1048 A laugh. "Mr. Richard Bethell owes me £1,050. He owes me that now; in the first instance it was £500 that I lent him. Mr. Bovill: Now, will you tell me when he had. £500 from you?—I tell you in April or May. Colonel Pennant: In April or May of what year?—Of 1864. Mr. Bovill: Will you be good enough to explain how it was that he had £500 from you in April or May, 1864?—He asked me to lend it to him, and I thought at that time, as he was in no difficulties, that he was a very good object; I thought he was a very good mark, and I further thought that it was very likely if I wanted a compliment, and asked him for it, he might exert himself, as well as others, to assist me. Mr. Vivian: What do you mean by a 'compliment?'—If I wanted any assistance with parties in power. Colonel Pennant: What do you mean by saying that' he was a very good mark?'—I thought he was ample security for £500 at that time." "What induced you to lend Mr. Bethell, for the first time, £500?—I thought that he, as other people to whom I had lent money, might exert himself for me if I wanted him to assist me in obtaining an appointment or anything like that. I knew very well he had no appointment himself to give; all he could do was to use influence." "The Lord Chancellor knew that both myself and my wife were exceedingly intimate with Mr. Baron and Lady Mary Wilde; and one day, in his private room, the Lord Chancellor told me that
 1049 "I carried the £500—worse luck!" And he continues as follows:—" I mentioned the arrangement to Mr. Welch, certainly, for this reason, that it was important as regards the understanding that if Mr. Welch got the situation the bill should be destroyed. Decidedly I mentioned it, for I thought it was in Mr. Richard Bethell's favour that it should be understood that the bill should be destroyed." 1050 "My dear Welch,—I have not replied to your former letters because I am really annoyed at your troubling me in the way you do. Nobody knows better than you do my present circumstances, how impossible for me it is to make any
 1051 bonâ fide "In the beginning of 1864, in the course of a general examination which had been instituted as to the Court of Bankruptcy by the Lord Chancellor, an inquiry took place into the alleged misconduct of some of the officers of the Leeds District Court—namely, the two Registrars, Mr. Payne and Mr. Wilde, two official assignees, and two messengers." "1. That accounts which ought to have been submitted to and allowed by your Commissioner were certified by you as having been submitted to and sanctioned by him, without his having ever seen such accounts; and that thereby large sums had been improperly allowed to the official assignees; 2. That you have been in the habit of taxing the bills of the messengers, without calling for the production of the vouchers for the sums alleged to have been paid by them; and, 3. That you have borrowed money both from the official assignees and messengers of the Court, and thereby destroyed your independence and efficiency." 1052 "Court of Bankruptcy, May 24, 1864. "Dear Sir,—I am directed by the Lord Chancellor to request that you will, within one week from this day, put Mr. Commissioner Ayrton in possession of the explanation called for by my letter of the 16th instant, otherwise you will be served with notice to appear and show cause in open court why you should not be dismissed from your office of registrar.—Yours,  &c, (Signed)"JOHN F. MILLER. "H. S. Wilde, Esq." "Court of Bankruptcy, July 26, 1864. "Sir,—It grieves mo much to inform you that, unless I hear, in course of post, that you mean to apply to be allowed to retire, I have instructions from the Lord Chancellor to serve you with notice to appear before him publicly in open court, and show cause why you should not be dismissed from your office of Registrar." "It is said that your state of health is such that you can have no difficulty in obtaining such a medical certificate as would entitle you to retire under the 33rd section of the Bankruptcy Act, 1861; and, if this be so, I sincerely trust, for your own sake, that you will see the propriety of re-
 1053 "Mr. Wilde showed me a letter from Mr Miller, dated the day next but one before, if I recollect right, the 26th of July, and I read it at his request; he said it had frightened him a good deal, or that it had 'put him a good deal out of the way,' I think was his expression. He asked me to give him my opinion about it. I hesitated a moment, as it came upon mo unawares, and I told him I thought the better way would be for him to go to London and consult his relative, Sir James Wilde. I think I said, 'I do not think you have much to consult him about, it seems to me it is a foregone conclusion. They do not mean to give you an alternative—they want your place —perhaps you will be better off with your pension, if they will give it you,' or something of that sort. I did not think that I should be asked about this, therefore I am speaking from the merest recollection. I then, I think, asked him, having looked at the letter again, or the latter part of it, 'Well, have you had any medical advice?' 'Have you had any occasion for medical advice?' or something of that sort; and, he said 'Yes' And he added that Mr. Hey had attended him for some affection, I am not quite sure whether of the eye or eyes, but something affecting his vision; he said rather abruptly,' Do you know him? I 'said' Yes, he lives opposite,' pointing out of the window; he said,' It has upset me,' or something of that sort,' will you go across and see him, and see whether he can give me a certificate?' I did go, and I got the certificate which is in the Return. Mr. Hey made some observation, I think to the effect, 'That is as much is I can do for you,' and I jocularly said in answer, 'I daresay it will do; half a certificate will be enough on this occasion.' I might be wrong; I drew my conclusions in a moment, because I had not the least doubt what was meant; it was all done in a few minutes, because Mr. Wilde had to go, I think, by the 10 o'clock train to London." 1054 "I hereby certify that I have been consulted by Mr. Henry S. Wilde, on account of a failure in his sight, which was a serious hindrance to him in the performance of the duties of his office." It does not say, "which I consider is a serious hindrance to him." "Mr. Wilde first consulted me in August, 1863. At his age I cannot look for any improvement in his vision, (Signed) Samuel Hey, F.R.C.S." "The note is this—' I have your note and medical certificate, and if you will sign the enclosed petition, and swear to it before any Commissioner for taking affidavits, and send it to my house, 26, St. Stephen's Square, this evening, I will endeavour to get the Lord Chancellor to make the order to-morrow morning;' is that the letter which accompanied the petition?— That was the letter that accompanied the petition. Up to the time of receiving that letter, had you seen Mr. Miller at all upon the subject of this letter of his of the 2Cth of July, which called upon you to retire?— No; I saw Mr. Miller on the 30th, and I went to him in order, as far as I could be enabled to do so, to get an explanation, and I said to him,  * 1055 "Had you anything to do with the preparation of the affidavit?—Nothing whatever. And nothing to do with the petition, except sending a form?—I do not say that I sent a form: it is very possible that I may have sent a form. If I was asked for a form I sent it. But you certainly had nothing to do with the preparation of the affidavit?—Certainly not; the affidavit, you know, is a mere few words, it is merely three lines." "Did you prepare the petition or not?—Having seen this, I have no doubt of it. That you prepared it?—No doubt; I have the petition here, I think. Will you look at it?—Yes, I have referred to it; here is the petition (producing a paper). It seems to have been prepared in blank, leaving a blank for the important portion of it, 'That your petitioner has for some time past been afflicted with a failure in his sight, and that the same has now become so serious that he is no longer able satisfactorily to perform the duties of his office; all that has been manifestly left in blank, and filled in from the information of some of those gentlemen, or from written information. Did you prepare the petition or not?—Having seen this note, I have no doubt that it was prepared in my office. Did you prepare it yourself? —It is very possible; very likely I did. Having seen that letter, have you any doubt that you did? —I have no hesitation whatever in saying that I think it exceedingly probable that this was done by me." "But your letter is dated the 28th of July, and the certificate is dated Leeds, July 28?—Yes. You, writing from London on the 28th, say that you have received the medical certificate, and yet the medical certificate is dated 'Leeds' the same day?— That seems odd; it is very incomprehensible," hocus pocus 1056 "Will you be kind enough to tell us what passed between you and the Lord Chancellor upon the subject?—I have already told you what passed. I pointed out to the Lord Chancellor what occurred to mo on the certificate. I told him I was dissatisfied with the medical certificate, but his Lordship, on reading the petition and the affidavit and the medical certificate, thought that, coupling them together, there was sufficient to justify him in making the order." "Mr. Miller has told us (I cannot find the particular answer at this moment) that he considered the certificate unsatisfactory. And then, at question 317, he is asked this question, You told us just now that you considered the medical certificate unsatisfactory?—I did. Considering the medical certificate unsatisfactory, did you prepare a petition which the Lord Chancellor was to act upon, and send it to Mr. Wilde without any communication with the Lord Chancellor?—I dealt with the matter before me, and I guarded myself in this way, that when I presented the certificate, the affidavit, and the petition to the Lord Chancellor, I pointed out the objections I saw?'—I have no recollection of any such thing. The petition, affidavit, and certificate were presented to me, and I ought in strictness to have read them all; I do not think that I did. I probably looked at the petition and saw the allegation, and I may have assumed that the medical certificate was in conformity with it; I certainly could never have read the medical certificate, or I should not have allowed it to have passed upon that certificate." "I have no recollection of that. It is very difficult for me to take upon myself to say that that is incorrect, seeing the number of things that pass through my mind; but my strong impression is that I had no observation made to me about the certificate, because I never could have approved the certificate if I had seen it and weighed it deliberately." 1057 "That accounts which ought to have been submitted to and allowed by the Commissioner, were certified as having been submitted to and sanctioned by him, without his having ever seen such accounts; and that thereby large sums had been improperly allowed to the official assignees. That he had been in the habit of taxing the bills of the messengers, without calling for the production of the vouchers for the sums alleged to have been paid by them." "Whereas, the above-named Henry Sedgwick Wilde hath preferred his petition to me, stating, that he had for some time past been afflicted with a failure in his sight, and that the same had become so serious that he is no longer able satisfactorily to perform the duties of his office, and praying that he may be permitted to retire, and that I should be pleased to award him such an annuity aforesaid. Now, upon reading the said petition and the affidavit made in support thereof, and the medical certificate therein referred to, and by virtue of the 33rd section of the Bankruptcy Act, 1861, &c, I do order that henceforth an annuity of £666 13s. 4 d., 1058 "Did Mr. Welch make any request to you to use your influence with the Lord Chancellor to obtain for him an appointment?—In 1862 I think it was; I must tell you that though I saw Mr. Welch constantly at Richmond some years ago, yet when I was acting in 1861 as principal secretary to the Lord Chancellor I saw very little of him. I was too much occupied; but soon after I obtained the appointment of registrar in Quality Court, Mr. Welch called upon me one day, and asked me to put him in the way of making the strongest application he could to the Lord Chancellor for preferment. Of course we discussed the sort of appointment he wanted; he was anxious to obtain a County Court Judgeship. I told him I thought there was no chance of getting that, for I knew that the Lord Chancellor had made two or three promises, but I thought there was a better chance of his obtaining a registrarship in bankruptcy. He then consulted with me as to the names of the persons from whom he could get testimonials, and he assured me that Sir William Atherton, then Attorney General, and several leading men on the Northern Circuit, would write the strongest letters possible on his behalf. I told
 1059 "Dear Welch,—Your note has reached me to day. You are still at liberty to refer to me, but that is all I am in a condition to say. I could not write such a letter of introduction as you mention. "Tours faithfully, "WILLIAM ATHERTON." 1060 "When you had a conversation with the Lord Chancellor upon the subject of Mr. Wilde did you on that occasion mention the name of Mr. Welch? —No, certainly not; I never mentioned his name to the Lord Chancellor except in an incidental manner. It is a very curious thing which recalls it to my recollection, and I may as well state it to the Committee. Mr. Welch had an estate for sale in Suffolk, which he had acquired in right of his wife; and he was exceedingly anxious that I should induce the Lord Chancellor to purchase this estate. The Lord Chancellor was at that time desirous of having a manor in Suffolk; he is very fond of shooting, and I thought that this estate might suit him. Mr. Welch sent me drawings and plans of the estate, and I remember showing them to the Lord Chancellor, and his asking me to whom the estate belonged, and to get him all the particulars about it. I said, 'The estate belongs to a gentleman at the bar, who is a candidate for office before you.' He said, 'What is he a candidate for?' I said, 'He wants to be a registrar in bankruptcy.' The Lord Chancellor then made this observation, 'Poor fellow, tell him I am afraid there is very little chance for him.'" "Had he been a registrar before then?—Yes, Mr. Richard Bethell was appointed registrar in March, 1862, and he resigned in May, 1864. On the 14th of May, 1864, I received from the Lord Chancellor a letter which, if the Committee desire it, I will read. This is the Lord Chancellor's original letter; it directs me to prepare an order for Mr. Bethell's instant removal — 1061 '"Saturday, May 14, 1864. "Sir,—It has just come to my knowledge in the most sudden and overwhelming manner, that my eldest son, Mr. Bethel!, has been guilty of the most flagrant misconduct. He is stated to me (and the fact admits of no doubt) to have lost during the last twelvemonth very large sums of money by betting at races, and to have raised money to pay these debts by bills of exchange and loans in every quarter.' [I call particular attention to these words.] 'He is also stated to have been for some time in the habit of neglecting personal attendance at his office, and to have had his official duties discharged by deputy. I feel it my duty instantly to remove him from his office. I beg you to prepare an order without a moment's delay, stating' it has been proved to my satisfaction that Mr. Richard Augustus Bethell has neglected the duties of his office, and is unfit to be continued therein, 'and that I therefore remove him from the office of one of the registrars of the court as from this day. It would be idle to speak to you of the state of mind I am in; but I am determined that he shall be instantly removed, and that in the manner which justice requires. "'Your faithful servant, WESTBURY. "'To the Chief Registrar.'" "I am sure he must be indebted to you; I will repay you. But do not lend any more money to him, for it is a, direct encouragement to evil. If his wife and six little children, affection for his father and brothers and sisters, and regard for his own character and position, have not been sufficient to keep him from plunging a fourth time into these mad and evil courses, nothing will." 1062 "Mr. Skirrow," (who seems to have been a trustee of his marriage settlement and a great friend of his wile,) "came to me and said, 'Do pray, Richard, resign. The Lord Chancellor is in such a state of indignation that I cannot tell what he may do; he does threaten to dismiss you,' though," (adds Mr. Bethell) "there was no case for dismissal." "My reason for tendering my resignation was, that I felt I was in too embarrassed a position to remain in this country unless some arrangement could be made." "My own private reason for tendering my resignation was that the Lord Chancellor had made me acquainted with the proceedings which were pending against Mr. Wilde, and I felt in my own mind that I could not, with any justice, ask him to extend any favour to me or treat me in any manner different from that in which I knew he was going to treat Mr. Wilde." 1063 1064 "Towards the end of February, about the 17th or 18th, I mentioned that the Lord Chancellor intended, or had made up his mind, to appoint Mr. Slingsby Bethell to the House of Lords, and I saw at once that there would be a vacancy in London among the registrars. I then thought it would be worth while to appeal to the Lord Chancellor again—I was always averse to Mr. Bethell coming to London, because I thought he would be with his friends, and that a country appointment might very properly be given to him, considering the manner in which he had been compelled by his father to resign. Accordingly, on Saturday, the 18th February, I proceeded to Lincoln's Inn, where the Lord Chancellor was sitting. The Lord Chancellor had risen for the day, and when I went in I announced to him what I had come about. The Lord Chancellor was very angry. He said I had taken a very great liberty in pressing upon him any appointment for his son." "I therefore pointed out to the Lord Chancellor that it really was impossible she (meaning Mrs. Bethell) could leave the country for three or four months, and I again urged him to re-consider his views about his son. I am ready to admit that I put it to him in the strongest and most affectionate manner, and that the Lord Chancellor did listen to me; but he told me he would do nothing and could do nothing until I had laid before him a statement of the debts, and how they would be compromised and arranged. I did not see much advantage in that, but the Lord Chancellor certainly received me more kindly and he gave me permission, after seeing his son, to talk to him again on the subject; but he never said that he would appoint Richard to any place, and he never authorized me to say so. On the morning of the 22nd, after leaving the Lord Chancellor, I saw Mr. Bethell. Speaking to him, of course, without any reticence, and without any caution (and I am afraid that I did it in a very incautious way), I have no doubt I told Mr. Bethell that I thought his wife's letter had done a great deal of good, and that the Lord Chancellor certainly was more courteous, and I told Mr. Bethell that he must immediately set to work and prepare a list of all the debts, how they were situated, and what could be done with them." "I should state, perhaps, which I had forgotten, that at the interview with the Lord Chancellor on the Wednesday morning my view was that the Lord Chancellor should transfer some person to London, and give Mr. Bethell a country appointment, and my mind was very much directed to Bristol, as Mrs. Bethell's family lives in that county. When I saw Mr. Bethell he said he
 1065 "I was naturally very unwilling to come back and serve again in the London Court where I had served so recently, and I thought that I would rather go out of London, and live quietly in the country, and I suggested to my wife, as she was going to pay a visit to the Lord Chancellor, that she should endeavour to get him to consent to bring up Mr. Welch from Leeds and allow me to succeed him at Leeds, and that we would live at Harrogate, and that I should be able to go in and out by train and perform my duties." "I had not time to call on you previous to leaving London, but I suppose you have heard that the Chancellor intends to transfer Mr. Welch from the Leeds district to London, and to appoint me to the district." "Were you at all aware of Mr. Bethell having any money transaction with Mr. Welch in May, 1864?" "I should say not; but I heard of so many people who had bills, and so many debts, that I could not positively swear that I never heard the name—but certainly it was never brought prominently before me." 1066 "Were you ever aware that Mr. Welch was a creditor of his?" "I saw many people in May, 1864, but it never was prominently brought before me. I had a great many personal interviews with people, but I never saw Mr. Welch." "But in the month of February of the present year his friends surrounded me, and his wife wrote to me, and I ascertained that there was no reproach attaching to him on the ground that he had neglected his duty; I found that it was a false imputation. I was then entreated to give him some appointment, provided he got a release from all his creditors. What I said upon that occasion was this, that I would make no promise, but that I would consider the matter when the release was obtained." 1067 "This was some time, if I recollect rightly, in the month of February in the present year. Ill-formation then reached me that there was so little hope of his being weaned from these courses that I found he had pursued the same thing at Paris. I then sent for Mr. Skirrow, and I begged him never to mention the subject to me again, for that I had determined never to appoint him." "Has your Lordship ever given Mr. Skirrow reason to suppose that you would be willing to appoint Mr. Bethell to Leeds and Mr. Welch to London?" "Mr. Skirrow was the gentleman who solicited me to appoint my son to an office in the country. Two places, I think, were mentioned to me by him on that occasion; one was, I think, Leeds, and the other, I think, was Bristol. I never told Mr. Skirrow anything more than this—that if my son succeeded in getting released from his creditors I would consider the matter." "On Sunday morning, the 26th, the Lord Chancellor sent for me. The moment I entered the room he was excessively violent, and he told me that he had deeply regretted that he had sent for me on Wednesday, as I had taken advantage of that interview, and had misrepresented to Richard what had taken place. He was very angry. I repeated to him exactly the conversation which had passed between Mr. Bethell and myself, and which I have stated here, but he positively told me that he would never listen, directly or indirectly, to any application about his son." 1068 1069 "Had your Lordship any knowledge that Mr. Welch had lent money to Mr. Bethel! before this appointment was made?—Answer. Not the least." "If your Lordship had been aware of it, would the appointment have been made?—It is difficult to say what I should have done, but I think I should not have appointed him." 1070 1071
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, as Chairman of the Committee upon that Ecclesiastical Commission of 1863, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government intend to pay any attention to the Report of that Commission, and its charges of land jobbing and other delinquencies?
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, that as a Member of the Committee he unfortunately could not take the same view that his hon. Friend the Chairman had just expressed. The Committee were entirely unanimous; the words proposed by the Lord Advocate that evening were copied from the Report of the Committee, and he felt bound to support there the very words which he had supported upstairs. A good deal more was implied in the Motion of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock. He thought it would be quite impossible for the Lord Chancellor to continue to occupy his high office if that right hon. Member's Motion were carried. Now, that either was or was not based on the investigation which the Committee had made. As a Member of that Committee he could not for one moment say that the evidence was in any way sufficient to cause him to give a vote which would have the effect of forcing the Lord Chancellor to resign his office. He said distinctly that neither in the case which was investigated in another place nor in the case which was investigated by their own Committee, could he conceive that the evidence was such as to warrant the House in adopting such words as would cause the Lord Chancellor to resign his office. He had not the slightest
 1120
 MR. SPEAKER  intimated to the hon. Member that that would be irregular.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member had not made a reference to a former debate in the sense of animadverting or commenting upon it, but had only mentioned it as a fact that had taken place.
 MR. SPEAKER : Order, order! The only subject matters before the House are the original Motion and the Amendment of the Lord Advocate. No other Motion has been put before the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman is not in order in discussing a Motion of which notice has been given, but which is not yet before the House.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the Amendment which the learned Lord had moved on the part of the Government related, as far as he could hear—for no notice had been given of it—only to the case of the Leeds Bankruptcy Court. Not one word was said in it about the Edmunds' case; and the House would have observed that the learned Lord had referred to that case very slightly in his speech, and not at all in his Motion. He (Mr. Hennessy) would take the liberty of recalling the attention of the House to that case, because it was one with which other Members of the Government were mixed up, and, as far as the conduct of Mr. Edmunds was contrasted with that of Mr. Wilde, it was a far worse case than that of the Leeds Bankruptcy Court. The circumstances attending the dismissal of Mr. Edmunds had been dwelt upon by the Report of the other House in language which was almost severe to the Lord Chancellor, and it was worthy of notice that, although that Report was only carried by the casting vote of the Chairman, an Amendment on that Report, which was negatived by the Chairman's casting vote, was much more severe. He found, also, that among the six Peers whose votes negatived that Amendment were the Lord President of the Council, the Duke of Somerset, the Earl of Clarendon, and Lord Stanley of Alderley, so that four out of the six Peers were Members of the Cabinet. He would further endeavour to show that whatever blame was attached to the conduct of the Lord Chancellor in reference to this matter attached equally to many other Members of the Government. One of the gravest accusations against the conduct of the Lord Chancellor was that
 1093 "You accordingly framed the charges which we have before us?—Yes; it was a sort of notice to show cause. And you were aware that he was summoned to show cause (so to speak) before the Lord Chancellor and two Vice Chancellors?—Yes. You knew the day when it was intended that he should appear, did you not?—I have no doubt I did, but I have not any distinct recollection of it. It was the 1st of August?—Yes. No doubt I knew what day was fixed. Before that day arrived was any communication made to you as to Mr. Edmunds having expressed a wish to be allowed to resign his office on paying all moneys due from him to the Treasury?—I remember that before the time had arrived when the hearing would have taken place, it was mentioned to me by the Lord Chancellor that Mr. Edmunds had proposed at once to give up that office. I do not recollect anything about paying; but I understood that he was to give such an undertaking as would leave the question of subsequent payment entirely unprejudiced by the acceptance of his resignation; that was what I understood at the time. I do not think that the form of any document came under my notice. I wanted to know whether you were consulted as to the propriety of allowing him to resign '—I have no doubt I was. My own personal recollection would hardly have enabled me to say whether the thing was actually resolved upon before it was mentioned to me, or whether it was mentioned to me first; it was about the same time, certainly; but I understand that the Lord Chancellor's re-
 1094 "Our first object was to get rid of him, and we might not have been able to do that for months, perhaps, if we had not accepted his resignation, because he would have had it in his power to make the usual delays which any one can make who is not ready with his defence, and all the time everything would have been in a state of confusion in the office. I daresay I may be wrong; but I cannot present to my mind a case in which, under such circumstances, the object of the dismissal not being criminal justice, but the sole object being to obtain a vacancy in the office, there would have been sufficient reason for insisting upon a form of trial for that purpose, when the man said, I will give you no more trouble about it; I will resign myself.'" "The Committee are compelled to express their regret that he was allowed to resign, and thereby withdraw himself from the impending inquiry before the Lord Chancellor and the Vice Chancellors. The Attorney General, indeed, stated that in his opinion it was desirable at once to remove Mr. Edmunds from his office, and that the acceptance of this enforced retirement was preferable to the delay which must have taken place in the inquiry. Notwithstanding this high authority, the Committee are still of opinion that the inquiry ought to have proceeded, and if the charges which Mr. Edmunds had been formerly called upon to answer had been proved (as it will be presently seen that in the judgment of the Committee the principal part of them must have been), be should at once have been dismissed, leaving it open to future consideration whether ulterior proceedings ought to be taken against him." 1095 "When the dreadful discovery, that he had for years been using public money for his private purposes, first came to light, Leman begged me to come up to London to assist and advise. I at once took the journey, and got to London on the 10th of August last. I did all in my power to help, especially by using my influence with Mr. Gladstone, and successfully; from that time forwards, both Lord B. and myself supported Edmunds, contending and fully believing that he had a satisfactory answer to the charges against him." 1096 "It is of the greatest possible consequence that they,"(the Members of the Government),"should be got at without delay, and for this purpose particularly I do entreat you will come to town, and as speedily as possible. In dealing with the Treasury it will be necessary to get at Lord Palmerston; and we do most urgently request your advice and help in the whole case." 1097 1098 "Whether Mr. Wilde, when Registrar at Leeds, was called upon by one of the Bankruptcy officers to resign his office; whether Mr. Welch was to make way for Mr. Richard Bethell; and whether Mr. R. Bethell's appointment was made out; and whether he attended the Bankruptcy Court at Leeds, and stated to officials that he was appointed registrar?" "Mr. Wilde was not called upon by any official to resign. As to the alleged arrangement for benefiting the Hon. Richard Bethell, the answer is that no such arrangement was ever made or proposed, or thought of." 1099 "With regard to Mr. Bethell, whom I understand to have been on a private visit to Mr. Welch, at Leeds, in February last, Mr. Welch says that Mr. Bethell did not attend at the Leeds Court of Bankruptcy in February or any other time, and all the officials to whom he has spoken deny that Mr. Bethell ever said he was appointed registrar, or that they ever said so; and they add that they do not even know his personal appearance. I may add that I have seen a letter from Mr. Bethell himself substantially to the same effect." "Do you remember on Friday, the 24th of February, attending the Court before Mr. Registrar Welch?—I do. Did anything take place between you and Mr. Welch on that day, with reference to himself or Mr. Bethell, and if so, be kind enough to state what it was?—Yes. Mr. Welch asked me on that day if I bad any objection to adjourn business which was standing for the following week, to the Friday in that week, in order that it might come before Mr. Bethell, as he himself was going to London, and Mr. Bethell was to have the appointment of registrar at the Bankruptcy Court at Leeds. Was it mentioned at all when Mr. Bethell would be at Leeds, or when he would take the business there?—Yes, on the Friday following the 24th of February, which would be the 3rd of March. Who told you that?—Mr. Welch asked me if I would adjourn the business I have mentioned till that day, in order that it might come before Mr. Bethell. Was the matter talked of in Leeds generally?—Yes, certainly; and I saw Mr. Bethell in court that day. Did Mr. Welch state that to you as a positive certainty, or merely as a possibility?—I did not understand it as a possibility; I understood that although Mr. Welch himself did not say he had got the appointment in London, he said he was going to London, but I understood
 1100 "My dear Sir,—I take the liberty to write to you as the Lord Chancellor's minister in these matters. I have been expecting to hear from you with my appointment to the London Court in the Hon. S. Bethell's place, and which I was informed on this day week that the Lord Chancellor had that morning been kind enough to transfer to me. The Hon. Richard Bethell was here with me on last Friday and Saturday, and he told several of the Chancellor's having appointed me to London, and that he himself was to succeed me here." "Whether he would lay upon the table the letters of Mr. Welch, the registrar, which he had read to the House on Tuesday last, as well as the letters of the Hon. Richard Bethell confirming the same." "I decline to produce them. I wholly decline, on my own responsibility, to produce them. Upon my own responsibility and good faith I gave to the House the information I had acquired from what I considered to be the proper quarter." 1101
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that a notice had been given.
 MR. HENNESSY  said, that the House had now before it two Motions—the Resolution of his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), and the Amendment, of which notice had been given by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. B. P. Bouverie). The main difference between the two consisted in the circumstance that the Resolution of his hon. Friend set out with the preamble that—
 "The evidence taken before a Committee of this House on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court discloses that a great facility exists for obtaining public appointments by corrupt means." "That such evidence, and also that taken before a Committee of the House of Lords in the case of Leonard Edmunds, and laid before this House, shows a laxity of practice and want of caution on the part of the Lord Chancellor in sanctioning the grant of retiring pensions to public officers over whose head grave charges are impending, and in filling up the vacancies made by the retirement of such officers, whereby great encouragement has been given to corrupt practices; that such laxity and want of caution, even in the absence of any improper motive, are, in the opinion
 1092
 SIR THOMAS BATESON  said, he had taken the following passages from the speech of the candidate for Dungarvan on the 17th of June, as given in the  Freeman's Journal. "I have learnt from my earliest youth to regard with undying hostility the arrogant and intolerant faction which so long has trampled upon and insulted my religion and my country … I regard the tenant farmer as the sole proprietor of the land, where he indutriously tills and labours upon it."
 MR. W. EWART  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council, Whether the attention of the Privy Council has been called to a Memorial from St. Mary's Hospital, and also a Report from the Paddington Vestry, respecting the nuisance to health arising from the foul state of the Grand Junction Canal Basin, and of the wharves adjoining, in the parish of Paddington, and whether they are about to take any steps in relation thereto?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the attention of the Government had been called to the Report of the Committee on the subject of the Ecclesiastical Commission, and he had called on the Commissioners, soon after the Report was presented, for an explanation of certain matters alluded to in that Report. He was under the impression that their reply had been laid on the table, but, if not, it should be, A Bill had been prepared, the object of which was to centre the responsibility in the Estates' Committee, but that Bill required a good deal of consideration, and during the recess he hoped to complete its details.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The right hon. Gentleman has suggested that the object of my noble Friend in moving the adjournment of the debate was to avoid a decision upon this question, and he professed ignorance whether the noble Lord did not intend to adjourn the discussion until next Parliament. My noble Friend, in making the Motion, said distinctly that all he wished for was an adjournment until tomorrow, in order to give the House an opportunity of considering the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock, which very few Members
 1135
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , in reply, said, he told the hon. Baronet on Friday night that he should be prepared to meet the Question. In the first place, he must disclaim altogether having it supposed that Mr. Barry was a Government candidate. Mr. Barry was a very eminent gentleman, and was one of the Commissioners who had been sent to Belfast, and every one acknowledged that the Report of the Commissioners was a most impartial and fair one. Mr. Barry was now candidate for Dungarvan; but in the present exciting times Mr. Barry, probably like other gentlemen, had language attributed to him which he had never made use of. He had Mr. Barry's authority for saying that he did not make use of the language attributed to him; and, moreover, Mr. Barry had, since the date of the observations referred to, issued an address to the electors of Dungarvan, on the 28th of June, in which he stated that language had been attributed to him which he had not uttered, and opinions which he never entertained. That was a satisfactory answer, he trusted, to the observations made by the hon. Baronet; and it was quite evident that the hon. Gentleman would have done better by privately asking him, whether the language attributed to Mr. Barry had been used before bringing the subject under the notice of the House?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Sir, since the hon. Member gave notice of his Question I have taken care to look to the proceedings referred to. The dinner was of a private character. ["No, no!"] At all events, it was a dinner to a gentleman who had been absent from Ireland for, I believe, many years. He was entertained at the private expense of the parties. Reporters were there, but I am not responsible for the observations of the hon. Members for Youghal and Dungarvan. I should suggest that the hon. Gentleman would address the inquiries he has made of me to those hon. Members. These two hon. Gentlemen, out of regard to Mr. Duffy, attended at the dinner and made speeches, but I see nothing in their speeches to find fault with. As regards the toast of "Her Majesty," I believe it was given; but really I am not in any way responsible for the course of the proceedings at an entertainment of this kind.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir, the course which has been taken with regard to the original Motion places this matter in an altogether new position. The Motion of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hunt) clearly implied a charge of corruption against the Lord Chancellor. ["No, no!" and 1133 1134 loud cries of" and and
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that the suggestion of the hon. Member near him (Mr. Percy Wyndham), that there should be attached to each train a breakage power proportioned to the length and weight, was well deserving of consideration; but to that the right hon. Gentleman had given no answer. Proper attention ought to be given to secure the proportionate amount of break power that ought to be applied. Care ought to be taken, before trains were despatched, that the public safety should be assured. He did not know whether any definite rule could be laid down; but he hoped that during the recess the Government would consider the subject with a view to legislation. As it was, in cases of neglect the unfortunate shareholders were those who bore the punishment, but he should be glad to see those who were guilty of neglect made penally responsible.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  believed that the very serious loss of life which had arisen from recent railway accidents might be traced to the want of three or four precautions, the observance of which should be made imperative on the companies. One great cause of these accidents proving so fatal was the insufficiency of the amount of break power employed, and he asked whether it would not be easy to enact that every train should have an amount of break power commensurate with its weight and length? Again, the officials engaged on railways were frequently overworked; and surely it might be enacted that they should not be employed more than a cetain number of hours out of the
 1169
 MR. LAYARD,  in reply, said, he had to state that intelligence had been received on the 29th of last month of Mr. Moens; his friends were in communication with him, and he hoped Mr. Moens would soon be out of the hands of the brigands.
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, there is no subject on which there will be a more unanimous feeling on the part of Members of this House than the appreciation of the valuable and important services rendered by those who conduct the Private Business of this House. And if there is any one point on which I differ from the noble Lord, it is only so far as to say that there is now in the public mind a more due estimate of the great labours of those Committees which do the work and conduct the Private Business which comes before this House than there was some years ago, when it was thought that the House of Commons met only for the purpose of
 1165
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, this was a subject of great importance, but it had been treated with indifference by the House. The right hon. Gentleman, notwithstanding his humane disposition, had given extremely unsatisfactory answers, both in matter and manner, when questioned on the subject. The right hon. Gentleman generally rose with a happy smile on his countenance, and addressed himself to the subject as to which he was about to speak with a levity, which he was ready to admit was not real but apparent; therefore, if the right hon. Gentleman really deplored these disasters, and desired to prevent them, he had good ground of action against his countenance, and might recover heavy damages against it. The other day a fatal accident occurred to the tidal train from Folkestone through the maladministration of the line. The causes of these accidents were patent, and it required nothing but common care to prevent them. The railway companies were not in the position of ordinary companies, for they constituted monopolies; and yet when accidents occurred the representatives of the Board of Trade in Parliament seemed to do nothing in the matter. A few days back a question arose about locking the doors of railway carriages in consequence of an accident occurring. A railway carriage being upset, the locked door happened to be placed uppermost, the unlocked door placed against the ground. What was the use of that door being unlocked? In old times when people travelled by coaches, post-chaises, and diligences,
 1168
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, without imprudence, he is able to give the House any further account of the probability of obtaining the liberation of the English gentleman who has fallen into the hands of Italian brigands?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, it seemed to him most unjust to attack the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade. He had served with the right hon. Gentleman on a Committee, and he must say that he could not imagine any more anxious and indefatigable public servant with respect to the duties intrusted to him. He believed that the true remedy for the evils adverted to consisted in the investigations instituted by the Board of Trade with respect to accidents, and in the establishment of rules, the best which ingenuity could devise, for the safety of the public. If those rules generally approved should be disregarded, of course the penalties imposed on railway companies in the event of accidents would be commensurately heavy. However, the best remedy was competition; but during the present Session nearly £2,000,000 of capital had left this country and gone elsewhere in consequence of ordinary facilities and ordinary fairness not being extended to schemes for making new competing railway lines. With regard to the Great Western Railway, to which the hon. Member had applied strong observations, he could only say that it always appeared to him that that line was exceedingly well managed, that the officers were sufficient in number, and efficient for the duties intrusted to them, and that accidents were not more frequent on that line than on our other railways.
 MR. MALINS  said, that one great cause of railway accidents was the want of punctuality, which put the public to very great inconvenience. Some railways were habitually unpunctual, and he would suggest that the Board of Trade should enforce punctuality. He would propose that every railway company should make a monthly return of the time that each train was behind its time; and, if necessary, the railway companies should be compelled to alter their time tables so that they might make the journeys within the specified times. It was the "hurry-scurry" which ensued in the endeavour to make up for lost time which occasioned many railway accidents. He remembered a case in
 1173
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was not to be wondered at that the accidents which had recently occurred on railways should have produced a good deal of uneasiness in the public mind, or that they should have been taken notice of in that House. But when the hon. Member for Devizes charged him with indifference to that subject and with treating it with levity—[Mr. DARBY GRIFFITH: Only apparent levity]—he was very sorry, because his manner must be very misleading if it induced any hon. Member to suppose that he felt indifferent to such dreadful casualties as had lately taken place. He could assure his hon. Friend, if he had the opinion he had expressed, that he was labouring under an entire misapprehension. He, for one, had never laid down or accepted any rule or abstract principle that Parliament was not to interfere on behalf of the public safety; but everybody must feel that it was very difficult to say how far Parliament ought to go, or could go, with advantage to the public, in the direction of interference with the management of railway travelling. Parliament had vested certain powers in the Board of Trade, and beyond these powers of course the Department could not go. Previous to the opening of any railway they were authorized to send an Inspector who should examine into the state of the rolling stock—which was not omitted from his review, as the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Percy Wyndham) seemed to suppose; also into the condition of the permanent way; into the sufficiency of the establishment, and into the state of the telegraphs and signals and such matters; and the Inspectors was to make a Report to the Board of Trade as to whether the condition of the line was such as to justify its being
 1170 1171 1172
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that from the nature of the case there could be no objection to produce the Correspondence. He did not know if it was yet complete; but
 1163
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK,  in calling the attention of the President of the Board of Trade to the verdict of the jury at the inquest on the bodies of Thomas Sweter, George Kent, and William Anderton, and to move for Papers relating thereto, said he could not admit the proposition laid down by the right hon. Gentleman, that it was very unwise for the Legislature to interfere with the management of railways, and that it was very much better to leave the public to the remedy which the Jaw put into their hands. The right hon. Gentleman was of opinion that the heavy damages which the railways would have to pay would be sufficient to protect the public. In that proposition he could not agree. On the contrary, that remedy would only add to the disease, for the constant imposition of heavy penalties might render the company less able to support such a number of servants and to maintain such care as might be required to prevent those accidents. In the case to which he now called attention he had the report of Captain Tyler, who stated that the accident happened chiefly from one of the engines being unfit to draw a train at the speed at which it was then going. He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman that it would be extremely unwise and injudicious for Government to interfere in the general ordering and management of railways; but he thought the Government was bound to lay down certain rules and regulations for the safety of human life; and he could prove that
 1166 1167 The Times
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, in the absence of his noble Friend (Earl Percy) he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Treasury will lay upon the Table of the House the Correspondence between the Board of Customs in London and the Reports of the Collector of the Tyne relating to the severance of the Ports of North and South Shields?
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : Sir,—it is right I should inform the House that the Chancellor, in deference to the vote of this House last night, and the expression of opinion which that vote implied, has deemed it his duty, through me, to tender to Her Majesty the resignation of his office; which accordingly I have done. I think it, at the same time, due to the Chancellor to state that as early as the beginning of the Session—of the year I may say—the Chancellor, stung in his feelings by the various attacks which were made upon him from different quarters, often pressed upon me that his resignation should be conveyed to Her Majesty. I, upon public and upon private and personal grounds, declined to be the channel of conveying the resignation to Her Majesty; and I urged upon the Chancellor to remain in his post, for this reason—that if he had resigned in consequence of these various—some of them anonymous—attacks, he would thereby be considered as in some sort admitting the various charges which had been made, and even other charges which never had been made. I, on the other hand, represented to him that if he remained at his post there would, no doubt, be a Parliamentary inquiry into the matters alleged; and, knowing and believing his motives to be perfectly pure and incorrupt, I believed that out of that inquiry would result, as has resulted, an entire acquittal of the Chancellor of any corrupt motive. It will be necessary that he should continue to hold the Great Seal until Friday mornings, in order that he may go through the proceedings and ceremonials in connection with the prorogation and dissolution of Parliament; but on Friday he will resign the seals into the hands of Her Majesty.
 VISCOUNT PALMERSTON : I am sure this House would be unwilling to close the Session without recording its sense of the zeal and assiduity with which many Members have performed duties totally independent of the Public Business, and confined to the transaction of that Private Business which necessarily falls under the jurisdiction of this House. The sacrifice of the time of Members which is required, the immense labour they have to give, and the inconvenience and sometimes injury to health which is threatened by the attendance of those who are actively engaged in this portion of the business of the House of Commons, are things very little understood by the public at large; but, nevertheless, those who perform these duties are entitled to the thanks of the House and the acknowledgment of the country. There is one Gentleman in particular to whom our thanks are due—I mean the hon. Member for Walsall (Mr. Charles Forster)—who has devoted all his time, in a Session which I believe has been more productive of Private Business than almost any other of this Parliament, to the discharge of these duties. There is, also, a body recently established which has likewise performed the arduous and responsible duties which devolved upon them to the entire satisfaction of those concerned—I mean the Referees, who were appointed under this year's arrangement. I am not proposing any Vote to those Gentlemen, but I think it right to state what I believe to be the feeling of the House; and if any other hon. Member shares in those opinions I am sure it will be gratifying to the persons referred to that an acknowledgment of their services should proceed from others besides myself.
 MR. HENNESSY  rose to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department of which he had given him notice privately. The Question was an important one as far as Ireland was concerned. He had mentioned the subject to the Chief Secretary, who referred him to the right hon. Baronet. The Question referred to negotiations supposed to be going on between the Government and the Irish Bishops respecting the proposal lately mentioned in the House as to the Catholic University in Ireland. In order to render the Question perfectly clear, he might mention that a Member of the Government
 1177 "The rumour is utterly without foundation. The Bishops have had no deliberation on the subject. What the private opinion of individuals may be I am not aware, but, whatever may be their opinions, they are not authorized in the name of the Irish Episeopacy to treat with the Government on important subjects affecting the interests of all. Such rumours should be received with the utmost caution, for it is not likely that any body of men would attach much importance to vague Ministerial declarations on the eve of an expiring Parliament, which cannot remind the speakers of such promises, or require their fulfilment. Besides, when the foundations of sound Catholic instruction are laid by the removal of the acknowledged evils of that portion of the mixed education under the National Board, it will then be high time for us to treat with the Government on those high branches of collegiate education which they have been labouring to establish, without any reference to episcopal authority, and to the injury of the Catholic people.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the hon. Member had given him no notice of this question till just before he rose to put it, He had no hesitation, however, in saying that since the time when he made the statement on the part of the Government in that House, on the Motion brought forward by the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue) he had had no formal communication with any persons on the subject of the change to be made in the Charter of the Queen's University in order to meet the views and wishes of the Roman Catholics in Ireland in relation to obtaining University degrees. He had communicated privately with the Lord Lieutenant and several friends connected with Ireland, members of the Roman Catholic Church, in order to ascertain in what manner the object
 1178
 THE LORD PRESIDENT  said—
