 The RIGHT HONOURABLE WILLIAM MONSELL , addressing himself to the Clerk (who, standing up, pointed to him, and then sat down), said:—Gentlemen, it is now our duty to proceed, in obedience to the commands of Her Majesty, to the exercise of our undoubted right and privilege of electing a Speaker. This duty is no trivial or merely formal one, for the dignity of the office is commensurate with the influence and the widely-extended power of the Assembly over which he is to preside; and our ancestors, through many generations, have shown their sense of the importance of the office by the eminent men they have successively placed in that Chair. Yet high and important as
 5 6 7 Hansard, "A thorough knowledge of the orders and methods of Parliament, a clearness and readiness in delivering opinions in matters of the greatest intricacy, an impartiality in judging on all occasions."
 EARL GROSVENOR : I rise to second the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the county of Limerick. Under other circumstances, I should have felt that the task had fallen into somewhat unworthy hands; but as I understand there is no opposition to the election of
 8
 MR. BRIGHT : I am well assured the House will not suppose that I rise to make any opposition to the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman behind me. If need were, I could say a good deal in its favour. I was not here at the time when the right hon. Gentleman below me was elected Speaker on the first occasion—I was not in England at the time; but I read of his election with great pleasure, and thought it about the very best choice the House could have made. After eight or nine years' experience, I believe, with the right hon. Member for Limerick, that the course of the right hon. Gentleman has been marked by impartiality, by dignity, and by success. In fact, without impartiality in such a position there could be no dignity, and without dignity there could be no success. I therefore give my hearty support to the proposition which has been made. But I rise for the purpose of making a suggestion with reference to a matter which I believe
 9 10 11
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not rise for the purpose of saying anything in addition to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Limerick, for that is quite unnecessary, but to say a single word, as definitely as the subject will admit of, to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Birmingham. He has incidentally called the attention of the House, as it may have been quite competent for him to do, to a matter which may undoubtedly he connected with the convenience, and probably also with the feelings and opinions, of some hon. Members of this House; but I think the House in general will feel that my right hon. Friend (Mr. Denison), whom it is proposed to elect to a most important office in this House, could not be expected by the House, and could not be expected especially by the hon. Member for Birmingham —I will not say to express off-hand a judgment on a matter of this grave importance, but to commit himself in any way with regard to it without having a very full opportunity for consideration. I would, therefore, only add that I am satisfied that any communication which any hon. Gentleman may have to make, either now or at any future time, to my right hon. Friend touching the dignity or the comfort of any Member of this House will receive the fullest consideration at the hands of the right hon. Gentleman, with his accustomed courtesy and kindness.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Speaker—I presume, Sir, in my own name, and I am sure I may say in the name of the whole of the Members of this House, to tender to you our most cordial congratulations on your having been for the third time, by the unanimous voice of this House, placed at the head of the Commons of England. Sir, you have succeeded to the Chair amid growing duties and growing responsibilities. The wants of modern society make themselves felt within these walls, both by the increasing amount of public business and by the increasing amount also of what we term the private business of the House. Your duties in the latter respect are in a great degree withdrawn from the observation of the world, and partially withdrawn even from the observation of the Members of this House; but the long experience of those conversant with that important branch of our occupations has convinced them that that department has never been more carefully and more efficiently attended to than during the period while you, Sir, have occupied the Chair. As regards the public business of the House, all those who hear me, and, I may add, the public out of doors, are competent judges of the manner in which you sustained your arduous functions, and which has been borne testimony to with a force far beyond any that can be expressed by words—by the silent and unanimous vote of the House which has now placed you in the Chair. But it is true that in some respects you have difficulties to confront even beyond those arising out of the constantly increasing calls on the time, diligence, and wisdom of the House. We have seen within a generation a great change in the composition of this House, and likewise a great change in the composition of those constituencies by whom it was chosen. At the period of the Reform Act the transition which this House then underwent (the effect of the important alterations of a constitutional character then made), was immensely softened by the continuing presence on the Benches of
 14 15
 MR. DISRAELI : I hope, Sir, I may be permitted, on behalf of Gentlemen on this side of the House, to offer you our congratulations on the event, so gratifying to the House, which has just occurred; and the more so, as from the mode in which the business of this morning has been conducted, you might, if I were silent, for a moment suppose that your elevation to the Chair has been a matter of indifference to us. I believe I am expressing a very general feeling on their part when I say that regret is felt here that your nomination to the Chair was not seconded from this side. On the previous occasion that mode was followed. There are, I believe, other precedents for such a course of proceeding under such circumstances; and if precedents did not exist, I think we ought to have made one, because this is an occasion on which the general and cordial feeling of the House could not be shown in too striking and significant a manner. You have to-day, Sir, been re-elected to the Chair for the third time. I have myself always been of opinion that re-election to the Chair is, in fact, a greater distinction than the original choice. Political manœuvres and Parliamentary
 16 17
 MR. EVELYN DENISON  stood up in his place and said: I offer my respectful thanks to the House for the honour they propose to confer upon me. I am much beholden to my right hon. Friend and my noble Friend for the manner in which they have proposed and seconded my nomination to the Chair. I can hardly venture to assume to myself much of the commendation which they have been pleased to pass upon me. The favour of the House, the gracious manner in which that favour has been bestowed by its choice of me to fill the Chair, for the third time,
 12 13
 MR. SPEAKER  said: I have to report to the House that, in the House of Peers, Her Majesty, by Her Commissioners, was pleased to approve the choice made of myself for your Speaker; and that I have, in your name and on your behalf, made claim and humble petition to Her Majesty for all your ancient and undoubted rights and privileges, particularly freedom from arrest of your persons and servants, freedom of speech in debate, free access to Her Majesty whenever occasion should require, and that the most favourable construction should be placed on all your proceedings. All these Her Majesty, by her Commissioners, has been pleased to grant and accede in as ample a manner as they have been granted and acceded to your predecessors on every former occasion. I have now to remind the House that it is their duty to take the oaths required by law.
 MR. SPEAKER  then took and subscribed the Oath, first alone; and after him several other Members took and subscribed the Oath; and several Members professing the Roman Catholic Religion took and subscribed the Roman Catholic Oath; and several Members professing the Jewish Religion took and subscribed the Jewish Oath.
 LORD FREDERICK CAVENDISH  said: Sir, I rise to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, in reply to the gracious Speech we have just heard read. Seldom, if ever, has there been a Speech from the Throne which has been delivered under circumstances so impressive, or which has dealt with topics of so grave an import, as that with which Her Majesty has just opened this the seventh Parliament of her reign. Her Majesty has this day, once more, disregarding the painful effort to herself, and at the cost of re-awakened memories too deep for me to touch upon, re-appeared amongst her people, and met them through their representatives in Parliament assembled. In the short interval since Her Majesty summoned this Parliament she had lost the counsels of that old and experienced statesman whom the country has mourned as one man. In her Speech, Her Majesty has had to call the attention of her Parliament to topics of so painful a nature as the recent events in Ja-
 108 109 "Thus it is that Jamaica at this moment presents, as I believe, at once the strongest proof of the complete success of the great measure of emancipation, as relates to the capacity of the emancipated race for freedom, and the most unfortunate instance of a descent in the scale of agricultural and commercial importance as a colonial community. 110 111 112 113 "the attention of Parliament will be called to the result, with a view to such improvements in those laws as may tend to strengthen our free institutions and conduce to the public welfare." 114 115 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, to convey the thanks of this House for Her Majesty's Most Gracious Speech from the Throne: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that She has recently declared Her consent to a Marriage between Her Majesty's Daughter the Princess Helena and Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein Sonderbourg-Augustenburg, and to assure Her Majesty that with Her we trust that this union may be prosperous and happy: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that we participate in the profound grief felt by Her Majesty at the death of Her Majesty's beloved Uncle, the King of the Belgians; but that we feel confident that the wisdom which he evinced during his Reign will animate his Successor, and preserve for Belgium her Independence and Prosperity: "Humbly to express our gratification at learning that Her Majesty's relations with Foreign Powers are friendly and satisfactory, and that Her Majesty sees no cause to fear any disturbance of the General Peace: "To assure Her Majesty that we trust that the meeting of the Fleets of France and England in the Ports of the respective Countries has tended to cement the amity of the two Nations, and to prove to the World their friendly concert in the promotion of Peace: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that we learn with satisfaction that the United States, after terminating successfully the severe struggle in which they were so long engaged, are wisely repairing the ravages of Civil War; and that, with Her Majesty, we regard the abolition of Slavery as an event calling forth the cordial sympathies and congratulations of this Country, which has always been foremost in showing its abhorrence of an institution repugnant to every feeling of justice and humanity: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that the exertions and perseverance of Her Majesty's Naval Squadron have reduced the Slave Trade on the West Coast of Africa within very narrow limits: "To thank Her Majesty for directing Copies to be laid before us of the Correspondence which has taken place between Her Majesty's Government and that of the United States, with respect to injuries inflicted on American Commerce by Cruisers under the Confederate Flag: "To express our thanks to Her Majesty for informing us that Diplomatic Relations with Brazil have been renewed, and that the good offices of Her Majesty's Ally the King of Portugal have contributed essentially to that happy result: 116 "To assure Her Majesty that, with Her Majesty, we regret the interruption of Peace between Spain and Chili, and that we earnestly trust, that through the good offices of Her Majesty's Government, in conjunction with those of the Emperor of the French, the causes of disagreement may be removed in a manner honourable and satisfactory to both Countries: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the Negotiations, which have long been pending in Japan, have been brought to a conclusion in such a manner as to receive Her Majesty's entire approbation; that the existing Treaties have been ratified by the Mikado; and that stipulations have been made for the revision of the Tariff in a manner favourable to Commerce, and for the punctual discharge of the Indemnity due under the terms of the Convention of October 1864: "Humbly to express our thanks to Her Majesty for informing us that Her Majesty has concluded a Treaty of Commerce with the Emperor of Austria, which Her Majesty trusts will open to that Empire the blessings of extended Commerce, and be productive of important benefits to both Countries: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for informing us that in consequence of the deplorable events which have occurred in the Island of Jamaica, Her Majesty has been induced to provide at once for an impartial Inquiry, by appointing a distinguished Military Officer as Governor and Commander of the Forces; that Her Majesty has given him the assistance of two able and learned Commissioners, who will aid him in examining into the origin, nature, and circumstances of the recent Outbreak, and the measures adopted in the course of its suppression; and that the Legislature of Jamaica has proposed that the present Political Constitution of the Island should be replaced by a new form of Government: "To assure Her Majesty that we will give our careful consideration to the Bill on this subject, which is to be submitted to us: "To thank Her Majesty for directing Papers on these occurrences, and on the present state of New Zealand, to be laid before us: "To convey our thanks to Her Majesty for informing us that directions have been given for the return to this Country of the greater portion of Her Majesty's Regular Forces employed in the Colony of New Zealand: "To assure Her Majesty that, with Her, we watch with interest the proceedings which are still in progress in British North America with a view to a closer union among the Provinces,
 117 "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that we have observed with great concern the extensive prevalence, during the last few months, of a virulent Distemper among Cattle in Great Britain; and that it is with deep regret, and with sincere sympathy for the sufferers, that we have learnt the severe losses which it has caused in many counties and districts: whilst it is satisfactory to know that Ireland and a considerable part of Scotland are as yet free from this calamity, which gives us reason to trust, with Her Majesty, that by the precautions suggested by experience, and by the Divine blessing on the means which are now being employed, its further extension may be arrested: "To thank Her Majesty for directing the Orders which have been made by the Lords of Her Majesty's Privy Council by virtue of the powers vested in them by Law, with a view to prevent the spreading of this disease, to be laid before us; and to assure Her Majesty that our best attention shall be given to the expediency of an Amendment of the Law relating to a subject so deeply affecting the interests of the People: "Humbly to thank Her Majesty for having directed that the Estimates of the ensuing year shall be laid before us, and for having caused them to be prepared with a due regard to economy, and to the maintenance of efficiency in the Public Service: "To thank Her Majesty for informing us that the condition of Trade is satisfactory: "Humbly to express our thanks to Her Majesty for informing us that a Conspiracy, adverse alike to Authority, Property, and Religion, and disapproved and condemned alike by all who are interested in their maintenance, without distinction of creed or class, has unhappily appeared in Ireland, and that the Constitutional Power of the ordinary Tribunals has been exerted for its repression, and the authority of the Law firmly and impartially vindicated: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that our serious consideration shall be given to the Bill to be submitted to us, founded on the Report of the Royal Commission on the subject of Capital Punishment; to the Bills for amending and consolidating the Laws relating to Bankruptcy, and for other improvements in the Law; to the measures for extending the system of Public Audit to branches of Receipt and Expenditure, which it has not hitherto reached, and for amending the provisions of the Law with respect to certain classes of Legal Pensions; and to the subject of the Oaths taken by Members of Parliament: 118 "To thank Her Majesty for directing that information should be procured in reference to the Rights of Voting in the Election of Members to serve in Parliament for Counties, Cities, and Boroughs, and to assure Her Majesty that, when that information is complete, our earnest attention will be given to the result thus obtained: "Humbly to assure Her Majesty that, with Her, we fervently pray that the blessing of Almighty God may guide our counsels to the promotion of the happiness of Her Majesty's People."
 MR. GRAHAM said : Mr. Speaker—Sir, I rise to second the Address which has now been proposed, profoundly sensible of the honour conferred on the great constituency which I represent, and on myself by my being invited to do so, and soliciting the patience and indulgence of the House, of my need of which in the discharge of that duty I am most painfully conscious, and which I am assured will not, in such circumstances, be denied me. There must be but one feeling of loyal satisfaction in all our minds in that the Queen has come down to-day in person to address us, and to inaugurate the new Parliament by her presence, and return to the more prominent engagements of public life, whose constrained absence from them has been regarded with so profound sympathy. And although in this new Parliament we miss the familiar face of one who had been so long the presiding spirit of the House of Commons—whose name had become a household word in all our homes—a watchword of our rights and liberties throughout the world, I rejoice to think that, great as is the loss we have sustained by his death, the prosperity and the progress of our country are not dependent on individual lives, however illustrious or gifted, and there is no inconsistency between the deepest and most earnest sense of that loss, and the most perfect confidence in the new leaderships for which it makes room. The Address refers to the subject of Parliamentary Reform, and promises a measure for its accomplishment; and for this department of the work before us these new leaderships seem peculiarly adapted—adapted alike by the acknowledged confidence of those at the head of Government in the wisdom and justice of Reform, and by their proved possession of the confidence of the country. Whatever truth there may have been in the allega-
 119 120 121 122 123 124 125
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE : I owe an apology to the House for taking up a position which my standing does not perfectly warrant; but there is one point in Her Majesty's Speech upon which I desire to offer a few remarks, and that is the allusion to the cattle plague. But in the first place, I must venture to congratulate the right, hon. Gentleman in the Chair—and the House—upon the fact that he has again been placed in that position—a position the duties of which I cordially wish him health and strength to carry out. Missing one familiar face on the Benches opposite, I may also be permitted to add that, opposed as I have always been to the Government of the late noble Viscount, I not the less sincerely regret the loss of that distinguished statesman. Further, I desire to congratulate the Seconder of the Address on the exceedingly able speech which he has just delivered, in doing which I am sure I am but expressing the feelings entertained by all who sit around me. I only intend to trouble the House on the present occasion with a reference to that part of Her Majesty's Speech which speaks of the cattle plague. I need hardly remind the House that it first showed itself in this country in July last, and I fear there is no one who can inform us how or where it came from, or how it will end. In dealing with this subject I will
 126 127 128 129 130 131 s. d. s. 132 s. s. 133 134
 MR. DENT  said, he concurred in the belief that much valuable time had been lost, and that the disease had made such inroads that those brought into contact with it were perplexed to know how to stop it. He could not acquit the Government of blame for this delay. The disease appeared in the month of June, a Royal Commission was appointed, and reported to the Government on the 30th of October. It stated the reasons on which it recommended the total suspension of the conveyance of cattle; but neither the country nor the agriculturists were at that time prepared for so strong a step. But the Government might have boldly carried out the recommendation of the minority of the Commission, especially when they were urged in December by deputations representing the Royal Agricultural Society, the Farmers' Club, and the Smithfield Club; and, through them, the bulk of the agriculturists of the country. These important bodies wished, above all things, to secure general action throughout the country, so that the matter should not be left to local authorities of different opinions. The result of these deputations was the giving of additional powers to magistrates in petty sessions, but so conflicting were the powers thus exercised that farmers were fairly perplexed and at a loss to know how to conduct their business. As a consequence, in districts he could name, the numbers of cattle had been reduced from thousands to hundreds. In a district where there should be nearly 2,000 head of cattle there were not fifty, and in three villages where there usually were 600 head of cattle not more than fifty were left, not because the cattle had perished from the disease, but because the farmers knew
 135 Leeds Mercury 136
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, there were two important matters which had to be considered with regard to the cattle plague—our future course of action, and the feebleness and incompetency which the Home Office had shown in attempting to deal with the calamity. Certainly, the former subject had received a great deal of elucidation in the able discussion of it by the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope). But there was the other point which had not yet been touched on in the discussion of the subject and which he trusted the House and the country in general would bear in mind, and that was the action taken by the Government to meet the emergency and restrain the plague. It should be remembered that the attack of the disease had not been so sudden that the Home Office was destitute of all knowledge of its nature, and could not have foreseen the necessity of initiating measures of prevention. It should be recollected that it had for many years been generally known in this country that the cattle plague always extended itself from Russia in the direction of every line of communication established by trade. It was known that as soon as trade was opened with Russia the disease would invade the shores of England. Acting upon that knowledge, the Government of the day sent Professor Symonds abroad to study and investigate the nature of the cattle plague. The result of his investigations and Report was that the Government—on the 7th of April, 1857—when Parliament was not sitting, passed an Order in Council to prevent the introduction of the rinderpest to this country, thereby showing that the Government had full power to pass such Order in Council. Now, bearing that in mind, let the House consider what has been the action of the present Government? The cattle
 137 138 foci 139 140 Laughter. 141 142 "This fortress framed by nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war." 143 144 The Times 145 The Times pro tanto 146
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, with a great portion of the speech of the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope) he fully concurred, particularly when he urged the immediate attention of the Government to this question. But he did not think that either the hon. Member or the noble Lord who had just sat down had done justice to the Government, inasmuch as they appeared to blame them for not having the gift of prophecy. ["No, no !"] It was, however, desirable that they should act upon one uniform system, because, without it, one district might be made to suffer from the conduct or negligence of the magistrates in another. It was owing, in a great measure, to the apathy of the magistrates in Stirlingshire, that the disease had been allowed to spread over the whole of Scotland. It appeared to him to be unfortunate that the measures introduced by the Government, some two years ago, for effecting certain alterations in the cattle plague of this country had fallen through from want of support in that House, and from the stringent opposition of certain bodies who now put themselves prominently forward in asking for the adoption of a measure which they had before opposed. One of those bodies was the Highland Society of Scotland, which had played fast and loose in relation to this matter. He hoped that the Government would act promptly and decisively on this subject. He thought that the proposition made by the hon. Member for North Lincolnshire for a double rate, in order to exempt those who had lost their stock, was objectionable, inasmuch as those who had already suffered by the loss of their cattle would have to pay as well as those who had not suffered any such loss. That would be manifestly unjust. If those who had had the misfortune of losing their stock were not to be compensated, they ought, at all events, to be exempted from future charges made with a view of stamping out the cattle plague.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, that in the opinion of the majority of those whom he represented, responsibility should have been assumed and action undertaken by the Government at a much earlier period. They were not accused of want of sufficient energy in the earliest period, but improved and uniform arrangements ought to have
 147 d. d. visa visa 148 149
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, that with the light of four months' experience it was very easy to point out how Her Majesty's Government might have done better; but it would be, perhaps, more useful to suggest how they should act in future. Several points had already been suggested for their consideration. There was another which he would take the liberty of mentioning, but which he was afraid would not be very palatable to Members of that House. He alluded to the carrying the infection by foxes. A number of cases had occurred in which it was very difficult to account for the way in which the infection had reached farms. The disease had appeared on farms eight or ten miles distant from the nearest centre of infection, and, as far as could be ascertained, no person had acted as the medium of communicating it. It was his belief that the only satisfactory way of accounting
 150 151
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he wished to point out the exceeding inconvenience to which local authorities were subjected through the Orders in Council. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had called on those authorities to perform duties which would have been more properly discharged by himself. In the first instance, the Orders in Council delegated those duties to the petty sessions. In the two Parliamentary divisions of his (Sir John Trollope's) county there were from eighteen to twenty petty sessions. Each of those sessions issued a separate order, without conference with the others, and much complexity was consequently produced. By a subsequent Order in Council the Government had thought proper to transfer these duties from the petty sessions to the quarter sessions. Great difficulty was experienced in carrying out that Order, as the quarter sessions was a body delegated for criminal and financial purposes only. Besides that, the Order in Council was dated the 3rd of January, whereas the quarter sessions had assembled in his county, and in several other counties, on the first of the same month. The consequence was that unless the sessions had been adjourned from day to day, and from time to time, all power would have ceased until the ensuing quarter. His (Sir John Trollope's) residence was fixed in a peculiar locality. He lived on the confines of three counties, and there were two other counties and a municipal borough within six miles, so that no less than six separate jurisdictions existed within six miles of one another, all issuing separate orders and acting upon different principles. The result is that the occupiers of land were put to very great inconvenience in carrying on their business, many of them holding lands in two or more of these counties. He believed the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) had given notice that he would, on an early day, bring forward some measure in reference to this subject. But he (Sir John Trollope) objected to be governed by Privy Council law. Indeed, he thought it con-
 152 153
 MR. BARING  said, he was sure that there was no one connected with any of the measures respecting the cattle plague during the last six months, who did not cordially sympathize with that part of the speech just addressed to the House, where the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Trollope) expressed the feeling prevalent in the county which he represented on account of the great and severe losses suffered by the owners of cattle in that county. He (Mr. Baring) was sure there was no one in the House who sympathized more truly and sincerely than himself with those who had suffered, and he was sure that the feelings of his right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department were the same as his own in this matter. He (Mr. Baring) ought, perhaps, to explain the
 154 Vict. 155 156 157 158 159 160 161 162 163 164 165
 MR. LOWE : I wish, Sir, that my hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Home Department had confined himself to a defence of the Government, and had not thought it necessary, in support of his case, to treat in the manner he has done the Report of the Cattle Plague Commission, because he has obliged me to make statements, and go into matters, which certainly I never would have dreamt of entering upon in this debate. The cattle plague made its appearance in the London market on the 19th of June. I do not know how it got there, and I do not think we have any evidence on the point; but there it
 166 167 168 169 The Times De minimis turn curat lex. 170
 MR. HENLEY : Sir, after the admirable speech of the right hon. Gentleman it will be only necessary for me to say a few words. There is no doubt the difficulties of the subject are very great. I am not going to conceal that for one moment. Neither am I going to be led away into the discussion as to whether this disease came from Revel, or whether it was generated in Hampstead in the cow-sheds of the President of the Council. No doubt in the month of July, if not in June, the fact was reported to the Government that the disease was in London. That, I believe, cannot be controverted. The only question is, whether it was certainly known to be the true rinderpest. I agree that the Government might have known this if they did not. Well, what was the course they took? Of all the statements I ever heard to show the utter weakness and shrinking from responsibility of Government, that made by the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary (Mr. Baring) is the most extraordinary. For what did he say? He stated that there were innumerable difficulties in dealing with the question of stopping the importation of foreign cattle, and innumerable difficulties in following the recommendation of the Commission. What was his difficulty in following the recommendation of the Commission? Why, that it was not a perfect remedy; and as this disease might be carried by the air, therefore they would not be justified in adopting it. Now that reasoning, if it comes to anything, comes to this—that it is idle to take any remedy at all if it be not entirely perfect. The hon. Gentleman said, "What! will you have a perfect cordon of soldiers as in Prussia, for if you don't do that you do nothing." Still, he talks of the responsibility of the Government. He further said, "The best thing we could do was to order the cattle to be killed." But how long did the Government maintain that order? What sort of resolution must they have on the subject. Why did they not stand to their guns? If they were right in their opinion, why did they not stick to it like men, and see whether it did any good or no? I am quite prepared to admit that all these things were tentative. There is one other point I wish to state, and it is this:—A great deal has been said by the Under Secretary about the impossibility of making general orders; but he did not touch upon the subject at all whether the Government
 172 173 Gazette 174
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : I would not have risen if I had seen any indication of an intention on the part of any occupant of the Treasury Bench to rise and address the House. It appears to me that not only was the Government prepared to inflict the greatest injury to the agricultural interest that they have suffered for the last century, but to treat with something like contempt their complaints. I do not intend to trouble the House at any length, for I feel that these matters as to the cattle disease, which are of so much importance to the occupiers of land, had better be dealt with by those who represent counties in this House. I wish to advert, however, to the conduct of the Government during this disease. If I understand the Under Secretary, there is still lurking in the mind
 175 176 177 178
 MR. WILLIAM LESLIE  said, that in the county which he represented, and to which several times allusion had been made (Aberdeenshire), they had, on the breaking out of the disease, slaughtered all cattle attacked by the plague. They made a rate which was divided equally between proprietors and tenants, and they were thus enabled to treat with every individual case that was presented to them, and to make such arrangements with the owners of stock that they were enabled to stamp out the disease. This plan had proved entirely successful, and they had succeeded in effectually checking the further progress of the disease in their county. He was not inclined to coincide with those who appeared disposed to blame Her Majesty's Government. He considered that the course which Her Majesty's Ministers had taken was the one befitting the free institutions of their country. The Orders in Council enabled the petty sessions throughout the country to take the proper steps to crush out the cattle plague in their respective districts. Those steps had been taken in Aberdeen, as he could
 179
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It is impossible, Sir, to overrate the gravity and importance of the subject that we have for some hours been debating. The ravages caused by the distemper which has now been prevailing for some time in this country fell, in the first instance, on the agricultural interest, or rather on portions of the agricultural interest, in particular districts of the country, with great severity; but there can be no doubt whatever that every class of the community has a deep interest in the preservation of that great article of food which enters so largely into general consumption. I am not, therefore, surprised to find that the debate on the Address has been almost exclusively confined to this subject. Looking to the multiplicity of topics embodied in the Speech from the Throne, I thought it not improbable that some others might be alluded to, upon which the House might expect me to say something. I therefore reserved myself for that pur-
 180 181 182 183 184 185 186 187
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Although it is rather earlier than the House is accustomed to adjourn a debate of this character, yet, as the attention of the House has been exclusively occupied by a question of great importance, and I believe the hon. Member intends to introduce to the notice of the House another subject demanding much consideration, I do not believe that we could in fairness ask him to proceed to-night. It will not be convenient for the House to proceed with the debate to-morrow, and it will, therefore, be adjourned until Thursday.
 Mr. SPEAKER  resumed the Chair at a Quarter before Four of the clock; and several other Members having taken and subscribed the Oath:—
 Mr. SPEAKER  laid upon the Table Rules, Orders, and Forms of Proceeding, of the House of Commons relating to Public Business, 1866.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that in early days the Votes were printed solely for the use of Members; but now they were published and circulated for the information of the public also. Perhaps, therefore, the use of one language throughout would be more convenient. With the concurrence of the House he should be happy to give directions to that effect.
 MR. SPEAKER   reported.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the matter was one quite within the discretion of the Speaker. If it were thought convenient that the days of the week should be printed in English instead of Latin, he did not think any one would raise an objection to the hon. Baronet's suggestion.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he had a suggestion to offer on the subject. The House was aware that in the heading of the Votes the days of the week to which they referred were printed in Latin. He thought the time had come when an alteration should be made in this respect. The matter might not be of much importance; but it was rather inconsistent that while the heading of the Votes, and the hour and day to which the House adjourned, and in the Notices the days of the week and month, were in English, in the Votes the days of the week and the months should be in Latin. There ought to be at least uniformity in the printing of their proceedings. There was a time when all legal proceedings were printed in the Latin language, but a hundred years ago that was changed. He knew it was in the power of the Speaker to direct the alteration which he suggested—namely, the printing of the headings in English; but he was sure the right hon. Gentleman would not be disposed to change the present system without an expression of the wish of the House.
 THE O'DONOGHUE : I am sure the right hon. Gentleman (the Attorney General for Ireland) would not attribute anything to me which I did not say. I beg to state that I did not express any condemnation.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he was sorry to be obliged to intrude for a very short time upon the attention of the House, and to take a course which perhaps might give an unexpected turn to this debate. While he fully recognized the importance of the question which was discussed for more than seven hours on Tuesday evening-while he deeply deplored the calamities which had been inflicted on England by the disastrous ravages of the cattle plague, and while he would do all in his power to abate and, if possible, to stay them—he thought the question of the state of Ireland was one of at least equal importance, and one which could not and ought not to be postponed. During the life of the last Parliament some of the causes of Irish discontent were more than once pointed out by his hon. Friend the now Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire), and by his hon. and learned Friend Mr. Hennessy, who he was sorry was not there to support him with his great ability. His hon. Friend (Mr. Maguire) was, he recollected, then told by the right hon. Baronet, who was at that time Chief Secretary for Ireland (Sir
 196 197 "Humbly to express our deep regret to Her Majesty that great disaffection exists in Ireland, and humbly to represent to Her Majesty that this wide-spread disaffection is the result of grave causes which it is the duty of Her Majesty's Ministers to examine into and remove." 198 199 200 201 202 203 204 205 206
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, agreeing in what had fallen from the hon. Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell), he could not support the Amendment. The preservation of order was the first and most essential thing, because society could not otherwise exist, and therefore the Government must be expected to maintain it. But though that was the case, the representatives of Irish constituencies would not be doing their duty if they abstained from saying that their country laboured under grievances which required redress at the hands of Her Majesty's Government. If the Amendment of the hon. Member for Tralee could be moved as an addition to the paragraph in the Queen's Speech, Irish Members might very fairly have voted for it. The Chief Secretary for Ireland, at the recent banquet of the Lord Mayor of Dublin, said—
 "It is the duty of the Imperial Parliament to take away from the disaffected in Ireland every
 237 238 "We have the Irish Protestant Church established as an existing institution in Ireland.….The firm belief of the Government is that it could not be subverted without revolution."—[3  Hansard, "We must bear in mind that this branch of the Church of England and Ireland is very dear to a large body of Protestants in Ireland, and they would not give it up without a struggle." "In a nation of between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000 people, 600,000 or 700,000 should have the exclusive possession of the ecclesiastical property of the country, intended to be applied to the religious instruction of all."—[3  Hansard, 239 "I conjure the Government not to be deterred by any of the difficulties into which this measure has brought them from going on in the path of which they have announced that this is only the commencement, but I do conjure them not to delay. I conjure them to lose no time in bringing forward those other measures which I am convinced they must have in their minds as a sequel to this Bill about Maynooth."—[3  Hansard,
 LORD NAAS : No one, I am sure, will find fault with the tone and temper of the hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House (Mr. Maguire); and if I differ from some of the conclusions at which he has arrived, I trust he will give me credit for taking as deep an interest as he does in the welfare of our common country. I wish, upon this occasion, to confine my observations—and they shall not be many—to one point, and to one point only. I wish to impress upon the House my firm opinion that those questions which have been referred to by the hon. Member for Tralee, and by many of the speakers this evening, as the foundation of the Fenian movement, are not the real causes of that unfortunate state of things which now prevails in Ireland. A new and disastrous state of things has arisen. I listened to the debate with considerable interest; and on seeing the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Tralee, I thought that he might introduce into the debate something which would go to show that the action of the Legislature and misgovernment on the part of this country had been the cause of this state of affairs. But I will appeal to every Member who has carefully attended to the discussion whether that position which was at first broadly laid down by the hon. Gentleman was maintained in argument. I believe that the causes of the Fenian movement, whatever they may be, do not lie here, but lie principally in a country over which we have no control. My belief is that this conspiracy did not originate in Ireland, and is not maintained by any causes that exist in Ireland. I believe it was created and is maintained by influences that arose in a foreign country, and is supported by money which does not come from the people of Ireland, and by men who are not subjects of Her Majesty. I have no hesitation in saying that the Fenian organization has been devised and carried on in America, and by men who have not the interests of Ireland at heart, but who are, I am sorry
 253 254 255 256 257
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he thought that no one who had read the Amendment offered that night could find anything in its phraseology calculated to excite animosity or opposition. At the moment he heard that an Amendment on Irish subjects was about to be introduced, he went to the hon. Member (The
 259 "That this poverty among the people is not attributable to the landlords; that no attempt had been made to drive the tenants from their holdings or to take from them any lands over which they had any real right; and it has been proved to your chairman that the statement in the appeal" "Which said that 'last year brought a sad change upon this warm-hearted peasantry, all the landlords of those districts save one simultaneously deprived them of the mountains, giving them to Scotch and English graziers as sheep walks, and at the same time doubled and trebled, and in many instances quadrupled, the rents on
 260 261
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that the discussion had assumed a very wide character, which was not unnatural considering the subject, but he ventured to recall the attention of the House to the proposal immediately before it. A paragraph in the Address treated of the Fenian conspiracy, and the Amendment proposed to be substituted for that paragraph had reference to the alleged causes of the sympathy which we were told, and which he believed, existed to a certain extent in Ireland with that conspiracy. Now, hon. Members who like himself were aware of the existence of those causes, but who, at the same time, were unwilling to give the slightest shadow of a reason for any one to believe that they did not entertain the utmost horror of the conspiracy itself, were placed by the Amendment in a very unpleasant position, for to vote for the omission of the clause would be as distasteful to them as to ignore the causes which led to this sympathy with Fenianism. There was another consideration which also influenced him in this matter, should his hon. Friend press his Motion to a division he would be in a very small minority. Now he feared this might be misunderstood in Ireland, and that the people of that country might, when they saw the body of English Liberals voting in the majority, mistake the significance of the division, and consider, however erroneously, that that party had refused to listen to their claims for redress; and that thus the union, or rather he might say re-union, which he was happy to say was taking place between English and Irish Liberals, might be in some sort endangered, and that good feeling which was growing up between them might run some risk of being impaired. He would, therefore, suggest to his hon. Friend the Member for Tralee, that should he succeed in eliciting from Her Majesty's Government a favourable expression of their views upon the subject of his Amendment, he would have done good service to his country and attained his object; and that he should not, under the circumstances, press it to a division. The Lord Lieutenant and his hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland at the Lord Mayor's dinner in Dublin the other day, gave utterance to certain sentiments as to the policy of the Government regarding Ireland. Should those sentiments be endorsed by the Government here
 265
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have been anxious to follow this debate to its close, and to be guided entirely by the convenience of the House, in either confining myself to the single subject which has as yet been introduced into the discussions of this evening, or in addressing myself at once to remarks which any Gentleman might wish to make on any other topic adverted to in the Address. As however, during the whole of the evening, the attention of the House has been confined to a subject well worthy of that attention, I will follow the example of those who have addressed us this evening, and offer a few remarks on the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue), reserving liberty to myself, if occasion should arise, and if other subjects should subsequently be introduced in the discussion on the entire question, to offer such explanation as may be required on the part of the Government. With respect to the debate of this evening, I cannot but begin by saying that I think those who have watched it through the many hours during which it has continued will agree with me in the belief that Ireland has no cause to be ashamed of the manner in which her case has been stated by her representatives; whether I look to the ability displayed; to the spirit of seriousness and earnestness which marked their speeches; to the strong and unequivocal language which they have held on the subject of the Fenian conspiracy; or last, and not least important, to the determined disposition they have shown to prefer the methods of constitutional action and discussion to other and less legitimate methods of advancing political ends. But, Sir, while acknowledging the ability, and even the spirit, of the hon. Member for Tralee, I must explain why it is impossible for the Government to accede
 266 267 268 269 270 271 272 273
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he had been urged by many of his hon. Friends to withdraw the Amendment, and to add the words to, instead of substituting them for, the paragraph in the Address. He wished, therefore, to withdraw the Amendment.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he moved that the Speaker leave the Chair, in order that he might submit to the House preliminary Resolutions for bringing in two Bills founded on principles which had obtained universal approval. The first of them aimed at the extinction of two small funds which belonged to the old Sinking Fund, which was cancelled by Parliament forty years ago. The other fund arose from the interest on unclaimed stock and unappropriated dividends. He also proposed, in connection with the Post Office savings banks, to pass a Resolution for the confirmation of permanent annuities, according to a plan peculiarly accepted by Parliament, at first in a formal manner, and which had the effect of contributing to defray the charges of the National Debt by a sum which exceeded £100,000 a year. By this means it was proposed to create £5,000,000 of stock, and the plan would operate advantageously on the annual charges of the country, and that was an operation to be
 275
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  presented a Bill to consolidate the duties of the Exchequer and Audit Departments, to regulate the receipt, custody, and issue of public monies, and to provide for the audit of the accounts thereof. He said, the course he proposed to take with regard to the Bill was to introduce it that night, and in consideration of its importance to allow a fortnight to elapse before he moved the second reading. He should next propose to refer it to the Select Committee on Public Accounts; and, as it was a Bill almost entirely relating to public accounts, it would receive a more impartial, authoritative, and searching examination before that Committee than it would in any other way. The object of the Bill was, first of all, to consolidate the departments of Exchequer and Audit, while the personal functions of the Controller of the Exchequer would not be interfered with. The next object of the Bill was to apply to what was called the Exchequer check the principles of modifications recommended by the very important Committee on Public Monies which sat some years ago, so as to preserve
 276
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government had no desire to avoid discussion upon all the points of the Speech; but they stood in a peculiar position. His right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) had given notice of a Bill upon the subject of the cattle plague for Monday, and another hon. Member (Mr. Hunt) had likewise expressed his intention of raising
 274
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that the system of audit had hitherto not been satisfactory. The ancient system had become obsolete, and lately had, in fact, been no check at all. Under these circumstances, he believed that the Bill now introduced would effect a very great improvement.
 MR. ADDERLEY  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies, What steps have been taken towards carrying out the recommendations of the West African Committee?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he must express his regret that the hon. Member for Sheffield thought it necessary to moot this question again; but he hoped the hon. Member, as he proposed the Bill in his capacity as an independent Member, would name the second reading for a Wednesday. When the second reading came on he should move that it be read a second time that day six months. The Bill had been several times rejected by the House of Lords, and carried in that House by very small majorities.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he had declined to act on the Committee, because he felt confident that it would find that which they did find—namely, that the Bill consisted entirely of principle, and that, with effect, they could not alter one word of the Bill. The explanation as to the majority on the previous Bill lay in the fact that the measure was brought on for third reading at so late an hour that its opponents were taken by surprise.
 COLONEL VANDELEUR  said, he regretted that hon. Members should feel so much interest in making it appear that Ireland was disaffected. Some hon. Gentlemen spoke as if disaffection existed all over three of the Irish provinces. The county of Clare, which he represented, was essentially a Roman Catholic county, and it was not disaffected. He had had conversations with the clergy of both denominations, especially with the Roman Catholic clergy—with shopkeepers, farmers—with all classes, in fact, and the feeling they expressed was one of extreme horror of the conspiracy. The conspiracy was one got up in America in 1857 by Mr. O'Mahony and others, who appeared to think that the whole of Ireland was ready to join them. It was sought to be established in Ireland by American agents; but far from there being anything like a universal feeling of sympathy in Ireland with Fenianism, the farmers in that country feared that if the Fenians came over they would be ejected themselves—that the small holdings of the poor would fare no better than the large ones of the rich. In 1832 and 1834 the division of the land was the object sought to be achieved; and in 1843 and 1844, when immense meetings were held, the people did not assemble for nothing. They took part in the agitation
 263 264
 MR. REARDEN  thought that the Government ought to be under an obligation to the hon. Member for Tralee for affording them an opportunity of amending the Speech from the Throne, because there was not in that Speech a single allusion to Ireland, except that which spoke of repressive measures for the Fenian conspiracy. As every one admitted, the bishops and clergy of the people had endeavoured to suppress the disaffection; but the best way to suppress Fenianism was to get possession of some of the "Head Centres," and this would be done if the British Government would adopt the same course of action as if they were at war with a foreign Power. Let Her Majesty's Government send to Washington, to Mr. Seward, a message that the British Ambassador would
 235
 MR. CARDWELL  replied, that orders had been given for the final abandonment of M'Carthy's Island not later than the end of June. As regarded the more general recommendations of the Committee, the Governor of Sierra Leone had been appointed Governor of the Lower Settlements. The estimates, including those for steam communication, had been approved by the Treasury, and would be submitted to Parliament. The Governor of Sierra Leone had received instructions to make arrangements for the reduction of the establishment at Lagos. That objectionable state of the law which was proved before the Committee to have existed with regard to domestic slavery would be met either by an alteration of the law or by a restriction of the area of territory.
 MR. SYNAN  said, he differed from the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bridgwater (Mr. Westropp) in describing the Government of Ireland a sham—English and Scotch Members might use such language, but the people of Ireland, at least, did not look upon the Lord Lieutenant as a sham. Nor could he without qualification agree with the Attorney General for Ireland, when he said that Ireland by her union with England was raised in the political scale. He so far agreed with the right hon. and learned Gentleman that if they governed Ireland as an integral portion of the Empire, and as they governed Scotland, it would raise her in the political scale:—but while Ireland was treated partly as a conquered province, and partly as an integral part of the Empire, she would not be elevated, but degraded. He desired to express his thanks to the Mover and the Seconder of the Address for the terms in which they had spoken of Ireland. If the representative of the Government in that House adopted the same tone in his observations as those hon. Members had done in theirs, he was satisfied that the object of the hon. Member for Tralee would be fully effected. Nobody who had studied the history of Ireland would hesitate to admit that causes of discontent existed in that country. He did not imagine that any Member of the Government would deny
 232 233
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he must remind the hon. Member that he had been invited to serve on the Select Committee to which the previous Bill had been referred, and that he had declined. The principle of the Bill had already been six times assented to by the House, and sought merely to repeal a qualification which had never been enforced. A noble Earl in another place (the Earl of Derby), had declared that the declaration, which had never been enforced for thirty-eight years, was not worth the paper on which it was written. He (Mr. Hadfield) was averse to having the second reading for a Wednesday, as he desired the Members of the Government to be present.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that so far as the Amendment related to an inquiry by the Government into the causes of discontent in Ireland he should gladly support it, but he had a few words to say in reference to the assertion that the disaffection would be remedied by what the hon. Member had proposed. They had been informed, for the first time that night, that there was any connection between the Fenian movement and the alleged grievances which it was proposed to remedy; but, notwithstanding the extraordinary demonstration of eloquence to which they had just listened, that connection was as questionable as the grievances were imaginary. No man was more anxious than he was to show respect and affection for the people of Ireland, but it appeared to him that all the propositions which had been put forward in their behalf were mere figures of speech. They were never entertained by the people of Ireland, and would afford not the slightest remedy, if adopted, for the distress in that country. Every one of the alleged grievances of Ireland applied equally to Wales, and a more loyal and peaceable portion of the Empire than Wales was not to be found. With respect to Fenianism, he thought the Government would not be doing its duty unless they inquired into its origin—whether in America or elsewhere—as well as into the progress and extent of it. He could not admit that the language used with respect to it in the Speech from the Throne was what it ought to have been. It spoke of it as a conspiracy against life and property, disapproved by all interested in the maintenance of peace without distinction of creed or class. Was there anyone who could believe that? It was notorious that the Fenian movement was a mere continuation of that of 1848. It would be, in his opinion, an excess of zeal on the part of the Government to attempt to conciliate those fifteen Members who—as the hon. Member (Sir Henry Barron) had said—had been returned by the people of Ireland in consequence of what had been done in another place. Whether the Roman Catholic priests had done that or not, he was not called upon to state. But let them see how matters stood with
 234
 SIR HENRY BARRON  said, he was unable to see that the Amendment of the hon. Member for Tralee gave the slightest support or countenance to that miserable conspiracy in Ireland called Fenianism. If it did, he would be the first man in the House to vote against it. But, looking carefully at the words of that Amendment, he thought that every Member of the House, on whichever side he sat, ought to support it. If he needed proof of this he found it in the words of the noble Lord who proposed the Address, and, even still stronger, in the words of the hon. Seconder, who represented one of the largest constituencies in Scotland. The noble Lord had said—
 "Had not the prosecutions unmistakably shown the loyalty of the class of men who composed the juries?…He did not think, if it was the first, it was the only duty to put down a conspiracy like this, disapproved as it was by the influential classes of the community. There could be no doubt it resulted from a strong feeling of disaffection among the low classes of Ireland, and if it did there must be some cause for it." 225 "It was surely the duty of the Government to endeavour to ascertain why this disaffection and discontent existed. They should endeavour to discover whether the reason of this feeling was the present condition of the landlord and tenant laws or the laws relating to education, or some grave wrong existing in the present relations of the religious institutions of the country." 226 Veni, vidi, vici," 227 Nil desperandum, 228 "Every man who does not shut his eyes against the truth must fully understand that Fenianism is not indeed a dangerous or powerful, but a foolish and a wicked conspiracy against the existing civil authorities, and still more against the divinely constituted authority of the Church of God. Its effects have been most injurious to the country, turning away the minds of the people from their legitimate occupation to wicked, wild, and impracticable projects, disturbing the course of trade, interrupting business, and giving a pretext to the Orange lodges of Ireland to arm all their members, to the great risk of the peace of the country. So far from being a Catholic movement it has been from its first onset conducted by leaders known to be infidels and avowed enemies of the Catholic Church."
 MR. WESTROPP  said, that reference had been made by several hon. Members who had addressed the House before him to what, whether correctly or not, were grievances in the opinion of the lower classes of the people in Ireland. It had been stated that the Protestant Church in Ireland was one cause of Fenianism; that the circumstance of the relations between landlord and tenant being in an unsatisfactory state had also conduced to Fenianism; and that the result of these two misfortunes to Ireland was the great emigration from the country. He would not now discuss the Irish Church question and the landlord and tenant question, as no doubt other occasions for so doing would present themselves; but with regard to the exodus of the population from Ireland, he maintained that, so far from being the consequence of grievances, it resulted from the natural order of things. He did not know personally the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), but he knew he stood in the presence of a distinguished political economist, the Mem-
 229 in limine, pro tanto par excellence s. s. s. 230 231
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (MR. LAWSON) : Sir, I am sure it is unnecessary for me to bespeak the kind indulgence of the House while I rise to make a few observations in answer to the speech of the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue), followed by one from the hon. Member for Waterford (Mr. Blake), and to state the grounds on which it appears to me that this House ought not to accede to the Amendment proposed. I was glad to hear from the hon. Member for Tralee the emphatic statement, which he repeated more than once, that he had no anti-English feeling. I am glad that the hon. Member has made that public declaration, for I think it will be of considerable value to himself. But I can only say that, however valuable it may be to himself, it is at the same time one by no means calculated to advance his popularity with the members of the Fenian Brotherhood. I am glad that the hon. Gentleman has made the observation, because—although I confess his speech was characterized—as his speeches always are—by great ability, nevertheless, I think that he has introduced into it some matters of the tone and temper of which, exhibited in the British House of Commons, I might fairly complain. Although, Sir, I am a new Member of the House of Commons, and this is the first occasion on which I have had the honour of speaking here, I have no hesitation in saying that I cannot give any credence to the statement of the hon. Gentleman that Ireland has entirely lost
 214 bonâ fide 215
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND : I am sorry I should have attributed to the hon. Gentleman anything that he has not said. I think if he did not condemn the Fenian organization he ought to have condemned it, for it is condemned by the unanimous opinion of every right-thinking man in the Empire. I was stating that this conspiracy existed; and then Her Majesty's Speech goes on to state that it has been dealt with by the ordinary legal and constitutional tribunals of the country, and, as I trust, in accordance with the facts. For this temperate expression of an undoubted fact contained in the Speech, the hon. Member for Tralee proposes to substitute the paragraph which he has submitted to the House; and to substitute for an undoubted fact, as to the existence of the conspiracy, another matter which it appears to me is not at all germane to the subject—namely, that wide-spread disaffection exists in Ireland, the result of grave causes which it is the duty of Her Majesty's Government to examine into and remove. I do not stand here to deny that it is the duty of Her Majesty's Ministers to examine into and remove, if they can, any cause or causes of disaffection, whether existing in Ireland or in any other part of the United Kingdom; and I am certain I express their sentiments when I say that it is their anxious wish and desire favourably to consider and entertain any reasonable proposition that might be put forward for the removal of any real grievance affecting Ireland. The consideration of such grievances, moreover, would not be in the slightest degree prejudiced as far as they were concerned by the existence of this conspiracy, calculated though it might well be to prejudice the minds of the English nation and of the English House of Commons against the country where that conspiracy had taken root. But for the House to accede to the Amendment of the hon. Member for Tralee would, I think, be a most dangerous thing; for its adoption would carry with it this consequence, if ingrafted on the statement in the Address with regard to the Fenian conspiracy, that this conspiracy resulted from those grave causes which it was the duty of Her Majesty's Ministers to examine into and remove.
 218 219 220
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND : That is totally different from what I supposed the hon. Gentleman to state. Those political prisoners must necessarily be subjected to the same system as other persons convicted of equally grave offences. Is British law, I ask, to have respect to persons, and to say, if one man is able to raise himself to the position of a State prisoner by compassing to overthrow the government and the institutions of the country, that, on that account, he is to be treated with more leniency and tenderness than an humbler individual guilty of a heinous crime, into which his ignorance may have led him, or his poverty tempted him to commit? Sir, I think it would be unworthy of any Government to treat such a man with greater severity than any offender of the former class; and, therefore, whilst the most scrupulous care has been taken to prevent any undue severity being practised, instructions were given that those political prisoners should be dealt with precisely in
 216
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he must accept the portion of Her Majesty's Speech to which exception was taken. Every one must acknowledge that a conspiracy existed in Ireland, and therefore it would be incorrect to expunge the paragraph in question. But if it were not so, it would be the necessary consequence that an enormous conspiracy existed, at the head of which was Her Majesty and Her Ministers, and over which presided two of the Judges, and to which the grand juries were accessory, as well as the independent juries, who had sent to prison, and to penal servitude worse than death, thirty-six persons. If the hon. Member for Tralee had moved his Amendment as an addendum he could not have found it in his heart, as an independent Member, to have voted against it, because what had been stated was the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. But there was a way of putting things. As now put, the Amendment would make the conspiracy not the work of the Fenians, but of the Government, in order to create a conspiracy for the purpose of crushing the Irish people. He (Mr. Bagwell) could not endorse such a view. He had always, he believed, found himself in the same lobby with his hon. Friend, and should continue to vote with him on any remedial measures for Ireland relating to the Established Church and education. But if it were the last vote that he had to give he should give it against this Amendment—not on its merits, but on account of the form in which it was introduced.
 MR. BLAKE : I wish to say a word in explanation. I did not say that the Irish political prisoners were compelled to herd with robbers, foot-pads, and other felons, because, being subjected to the separate system of punishment, it is of course obvious that such could not be the case. But what I said was, that at Pentonville the political prisoners were subjected to the same mode of treatment dealt out to the ordinary malefactors.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he had very great pleasure in seconding the Amendment of his hon. Friend, who had in his eloquent speech expressed himself so well on every topic connected with the subject before the House. It was not his (Mr. Blake's) intention to trespass long on the time of the House, for his main object in rising to second the Amendment was to interrogate the right hon. Gentleman, who was the representative of Her Majesty's Government in the House, as to what policy the Government intended to pursue in reference to the present state of Ireland. A considerable amount of surprise had been created by the only allusion made in Her Majesty's Speech to Ireland—an allusion which referred so much to measures of repression and prosecution, measures which had been resorted to a hundred times before, with a view to the pacification of
 207 "The gross value of the crops of 1846, had not this calamity (the famine) occurred, is estimated by Mr. Griffiths as follows:—Potatoes, 1,500,000 acres, value £15,000,000; oats, 4,000,000 acres, value £14,000,000; wheat, flax, and green crops, 2,000,000 acres, value £14,000,000; pasture and
 208 209 210 211 212 213
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the Amendment was in possession of the House, and that it was for the House to decide whether they would grant permission to the hon. Gentleman to make the change he proposed.
 MR. GEORGE  said, the paragraph in Her Majesty's Speech with reference to Ireland contained three distinct propositions to which no fair and reasonable man could dissent—namely, that a conspiracy dangerous to the prosperity and the welfare of Ireland existed in that country; secondly, that every man possessed of property in that country was hostile to it; and lastly, that (at the eleventh hour) all the ordinary constitutional means were put in force to repress it and put it down. Whilst he admitted that it was a most notorious conspiracy, he could not go so far as to say the Government were justified in postponing their measures until so late a period to put down the threatened rebellion. When they were taken they proved effectual, and he bore testimony to the able
 221 222 The People 223 224
 MR. MAGUIRE : Sir, before addressing myself to the subject under the consideration of the House, I desire, at the request of my hon. Friend the Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue), to make an explanation on his behalf, inasmuch as it is not in his power to reply to the observations of the Attorney General. My hon. Friend wishes me to state that he did not express any condemnation of Fenianism, for this reason—that, had he done so, such condemnation might be interpreted to mean, either that no cause for disaffection existed, or that the people of Ireland were bound to submit to an eternity of misrule. The hon. Member for Tralee said that he spoke in no anti-English spirit, and the Attorney General remarked thereon that that statement of the feeling of my hon. Friend would not make him popular among the Fenians. Now, I can inform the right hon. Gentleman and the House that my hon. Friend was not popular among the Fenians, and that he has, in the strongest and most marked manner, been assailed by the leaders and the organ of that movement. More than this I do not think it necessary to say on the part of my hon. Friend. For my own part, I rise in no anti-English spirit, but I do rise in an anti-Fenian spirit, I do not say this with the contemptible object in view of obtaining a momentary applause; for in my own country, in my own city, in the midst of a population deeply discontented and widely disaffected, I have done my utmost to impress upon my fellow-countrymen the folly, madness, and mischief of that insensate movement; not only at the risk of loss of popularity, but at the more serious risk of grave misapprehension. But although I oppose Fenianism, as injurious to the best interests of my country, I am not here to say that there are no real causes of discontent, or even disaffection—at least, for that state of the popular mind which leads to disaffection. Did I say that no cause for discontent existed in Ireland, I should state that which I do not believe. Before referring to some of the causes for discontent which unhappily abound in Ireland, I would offer a suggestion to my hon. Friend the Member for Tralee. I would advise him to add his Amendment to the paragraph in the Address, rather than move it as a substitute for that paragraph. But if my hon. Friend press his Motion to a division, I will certainly vote with him, as I prefer the terms of the Amendment to the paragraph in the Address; for while
 241 242 243 244 245 246 247 "I may state to the Committee that I never knew a period in which there was more estrangement, more dissatisfaction, more disaffection to the Government under which they live, than there is at the present moment. Amongst those that go away, there are expressions on their lips of burning hatred against what they complain of—the neglect and misrule of the English Government." "I do not think I could overrate the amount of discontent that is in the very depths of their souls." 248 25 249 250 251 252
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, believing that House to be the proper place for expressing his views as a representative of the people, he would not shrink from declaring his opinions upon the question submitted for their just consideration. He should be forgetting his
 258 Cries of Laughter.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he gave full credit to the Irish Government for the vigour it had shown in the Fenian prosecutions. Praise was due to the Lord Lieutenant especially; and it was gratifying to find that his Excellency was so well supported by the middle classes. In the county which he had the honour to represent, the law was still respected. It was one into which Fenianism had not penetrated to any great extent; but even there the bad effects of the conspiracy were felt. A stop had been put to the establishment of manufactories—capitalists being deterred from embarking their money in a country in which there did not appear to be ordinary security for commercial enterprize. His opinion was that the present was not the time for inquiry into political grievances. When the Fenian conspiracy was put an end to, and when the law was vindicated, then would be the time for an inquiry such as that suggested in the course of this debate. The landlords had been spoken of as if they were indifferent to the state of the country. Holding the stake they did in it, he was at a loss to see how that could be. In the county with which he was connected they had a large measure of tenant-right, and there were no religious feuds, and yet things were not as they ought to be there; he was sorry to say there did not prevail such a spirit of satisfaction as he should like to see. Within the last few years vast numbers of the population of Ireland had emigrated; and it could scarcely be expected that the lower classes, receiving as they did by every post, from their relatives and friends on the other side of the Atlantic, letters speaking of the prosperous condition of the emigrants and containing substantial proof of that prosperity in the shape of remittances, should fail to draw comparisons between their own position and that of Irishmen who had left their own country. Irishmen who came to England or who went to Scotland earned large wages, and those at home asked why it was that in Ireland wages were so small as compared with those paid to their countrymen elsewhere. That was a question which it was difficult to answer without going into political economy; but he believed that much discontent arose from the circum-
 262
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose to move the adjournment of the debate Although it had occupied the unusual period of two nights, the House bad only touched upon two subjects; but there was a question more important than either of them which had not yet been referred to—namely, the subject of Parliamentary Reform, concerning which they had had no information from Her Majesty's Government. He therefore thought it desirable they should adjourn the debate until tomorrow night.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he would assent to that course.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill in conformity with the recommendation of the Commissioners.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : I wish to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether he will state to the House the exact nature of the Returns upon the subject of the rights of voting, which are in course of collection by the Government? I hope I may ask Her Majesty's Government to give an answer in detail, as my object is to enable hon. Members to move for supplemental Returns in case those produced by the Government should not be deemed sufficient.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Will the right hon. Gentleman lay the circulars on the table?
 MR. CHARLES FORSTER  said, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is his intention, in the present Session, to re-introduce the measure which he proposed in the Session of 1864, relating to the collection of taxes? There was considerable grievance, both to taxpayers and collectors, under the present system, and gentlemen were often nominated to the office of tax collectors when such a nomination was not in accordance with their social position. In 1864, a measure had been brought forward with the view of providing a remedy, and though the measure was not successful, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed his readiness to apply a remedy on an early occasion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend who has put the Question to me is already aware that I take the same view of the merits of the case as he does himself. In my opinion the present system of assessing and collecting the Queen's taxes is a most defective one. To the local jurisdiction relating to the adjudication of the taxes my observation does not apply. This, I think, is not only not inconvenient, but most advantageous and essential as an auxiliary to our system of taxation; but as to the assessment and collection, I have always held it would be most desirable that those functions should be taken directly into the hands of the Queen's Government. The present method is hard upon the taxpayers, and in a large majority of cases upon the persons who discharge the functions of the collection, it being in general a laborious office, of a vexatious character, with small remuneration; the discharge of its duties, which is compulsory by law, amounting in many cases to a serious grievance to those on whom it is imposed. My hon. Friend has likewise alluded to the present state of the law in regard to the liability of parishes to re-assessment where the taxes are collected under the responsibility of officers not ap-
 309
 MR. HEADLAM  said, that the men alluded to would be put upon their trial by court-martial in the course of a very few days. One man, indeed, was put upon his trial yesterday, and another was to be tried to day. It might be true that a longer delay had taken place than would have been right under ordinary circumstances; but, at the same time, the circumstances surrounding the Fenian conspiracy were quite exceptional. The delay had arisen in consequence of the authorities in Ireland having considered it desirable that the trials should be postponed. Some time ago he had written a letter to Ireland to state that he thought it desirable that the trials should take place as soon as possible, and the following was the reply he received:—
 "I have the honour to state that the delay arises from the circumstance that the witnesses whose evidence is material to prove the existence of the Fenian conspiracy, including a man named Warner, and a number of other witnesses, are at present in attendance before the civilian commission sitting in Dublin, and therefore cannot take part in the proceedings before the court-martial."
 MR. HEADLAM : The 31st of January.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : May I ask the right hon. Gentleman who is responsible for its circulation?
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that I do not feel in the slightest degree sore at the censure which he has just passed upon me with regard to observations which I have made upon the events which have taken place in Jamaica. I am a good deal used to the criticism of the right hon. Gentleman. In fact, I believe there is nothing which I have said anywhere—hardly anything which I have said in this House or in the country for the last twenty years—which the right hon. Gentleman has not found it necessary to condemn. I can assure him that he is very much mistaken if he supposes that I was actuated by any party feeling in anything which I said upon this distressing subject. If I had any party feeling, as the right hon. Gentleman interprets that phrase, I presume I should have been rather disposed to have said nothing that would be unpleasant to the Government and to the Administration, with whose general policy I hope to agree. The right hon. Gentleman might just as well be charged with having made a party attack upon me, standing, as he does, on the other side of the table, and cheered, as he has been, by the party of which he is one of the recognized leaders. But he charges me with having prejudged this question. Does he recollect that nearly every paper which advocates his politics in this country has been writing strongly in favour of Governor Eyre, and applauding the sanguinary transactions which have taken place in Jamaica? Does he know, further, that several speakers, well-known Members of
 321 322 323
 MR. HENLEY  hoped that when the Bill had been brought in a reasonable time would be allowed to elapse after it was printed, so that Members might have a fair opportunity of considering it before the second reading. The matter was in some of its parts very technical.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am always desirous to bring forward Bills of this nature, which I have no reason to suppose would call forth much criticism, before the business of Parlia-
 334 335
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether it is his intention to bring in any measure in regard to the Law of Hypothec in Scotland?
 MR. BOUVERIE : It is quite clear, from the very oracular and mystical paragraph which closes Her Majesty's Speech, that there is to be a Reform Bill. That fact, at any rate, seems to be established. But as the information is not complete on which that Reform Bill is to be founded, I presume that Her Majesty's Government have not completely made up their minds as to what the nature of that Reform Bill is to be. Taking that to be the case, we had two glimmerings of light thrown upon this subject in the course of the last week. The noble Lord at the head
 328 329 330 en masse
 LORD ELCHO : I wish to ask the right hon Baronet whether the Returns referred to by the noble Lord the Member for Stamford will be laid on the table before the Reform Bill is introduced by the Government?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he should postpone till Monday his Question as to the intention of the Government in respect to giving compensation for stock, hides, horns, &c, destroyed or buried by direction of Cattle Plague Inspectors, acting under Orders in Council.
 MR. AYRTON  asked the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether he had any objection to lay upon the table the accounts relating to Post Office savings banks in a somewhat more satisfactory form than that in which they were now given. They appeared to show a profit of £40,000, whereas, in fact, there was a loss to that amount; for, as he understood the accounts, it appeared that the whole of the annuities and interest received from year to year was credited as income, while nothing was deducted for the depreciation of those annuities, which were terminable, and would soon come to an end. If, however, the amount of that depreciation, which was estimated at £80,000, was placed against the apparent profit, it would show a loss, instead of a profit, of £40,000. It was extremely to be regretted that the accounts were made up in such a manner that there should be room for misapprehension. Certainly, they were not presented to the House in the form adopted by joint-stock banks and other institutions which carry on business of a similar kind. It was necessary that there should be placed upon the table a proper annual account of profit and loss. Unless hon. Members saw that all charges and deductions were fairly set off against the income, they would be unable to ascertain the amount of profit and loss. He was anxious that the right hon. Gentleman should take into consideration the expediency of remodelling the form in which these accounts were presented.
 MR. NEATE  said, he concurred in the belief that the question of Reform would not have been satisfactorily settled until there was a re-distribution of seats, and an extinction of a considerable number of the smaller boroughs. Whether the measures for a complete Parliamentary Reform should all be brought in at one time was, however, quite another question. He thought the Ministry were acting rightly if they separated the question of an extension of the franchise from that of its re-distribution; because, before Parliament proceeded to re-distribute the franchise it ought to know what the increase of the constituencies would be. Again, he thought
 332
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked, When the second Report of the Cattle Plague Commission would be in the hands of Members? It was very desirable that hon. Gentlemen should have an opportunity of reading it before the discussion on the subject which was appointed to take place on Monday next.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is not by accident and inadvertence that, in giving notice lately of intended Motions, by Government precedence, he fixed one of them for a Members' ballot night, Tuesday, the 13th; and, whether he has any intention of claiming any right on the part of the Government to give such notice for Tuesdays, without taking their chance of the ballot in common with other Members?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that the right hon. Baronet's explanation was perfectly satisfactory.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, I can assure you that I have no desire to continue the discussion which has been raised with regard to Jamaica. The object which I have in view is identical with the course which Her Majesty's Government have endeavoured to pursue, and that has been, while insisting upon full inquiry into all matters which appeared to them to call for inquiry, to avoid prejudging any part of the question. I should ill fulfil that intention if I said anything which continued the discussion of the subject beyond the point to which it has been the pleasure of the House to entertain it. All, therefore, that I rise to say is, that like the right hon. Baronet opposite (Sir John Pakington), I have known Governor Eyre only by the reputation which he has obtained and preserved in the service of the Crown. When I first heard, by telegram through the United States, that these deplorable occurrences had taken place, I sent for the Governor of Barbadoes, who happened to be in this country, and asked whether he could give me any assistance in explaining what these transactions meant. His reply was, "I can give you no assistance in reading this
 326
 MR. H. BERKELEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in conjunction with
 306
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, he congratulated the Government on the very modest position which the question of Reform occupied in Her Majesty's Speech. In common with the great mass of his countrymen, he had had some apprehensions with reference to the Reform question, and the manner in which Her Majesty's Government were likely to deal with it; but those apprehensions were in a great degree removed when he saw the distant and modest manner in which the matter was alluded to in the Speech from the Throne. He knew that men of experience and tried patriotism may have taken the place of the veteran statesman they had been accustomed to; but, at the same time, they feared that a shadow behind the Treasury Benches might prove fatal to them. Those apprehensions were not entirely groundless; for there were certain indications which led men to fear that the Members of Her Majesty's Government might drift into the arms of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and that the offspring of this union might be the ruin of the Constitution. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bright) had told the great Whig party that if they shrunk from this question of Reform they would become extinct. Now, he believed that the Whig party would become extinct—that a Whig
 325 "When Glaucus of his judgment Jove deprived, His armour interchanging, gold for brass, A hundred oxen worth for that of nine," "Tam stupidus nunquam nec tu, puto, Glauce, fuisti, Chalcea donanti Chrysea qui dederas."
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he was not satisfied, and he was sure the army would not be, at this delay.
 COLONEL NORTH : What is the date of the letter?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to ask the Judge Advocate General, Why Drum-Major Farrell, 1st Battalion 2nd Queen's Regiment, and Sergeant Butler, 99th Regiment, have not been brought to trial, either before a military or civil tribunal, for the alleged offence of drilling parties of Fenians? It might, he said, be in there-collection of many hon. Members that at the very outbreak of the Fenian movement these non-commissioned officers were arrested and charged with having drilled Fenian recruits. To show the magnitude of such an offence on the part of a soldier, he would read to the House a portion of the oath of allegiance which these men took upon entering the army—
 "I—do make oath that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty, her heirs, and successors, and that I will, as in duty bound, honestly and faithfully defend Her Majesty, her heirs, and successors, in person, crown, and dignity, against all enemies, and will observe and obey all orders of Her Majesty, her heirs, and successors, and of the generals and officers set over me. So help me God." "If any person subject to this Act shall, at any time during the continuance of this Act, hold correspondence with or give advice or intelligence to any rebel or enemy of Her Majesty, either by letters, messages, signs, or tokens in any manner or way whatsoever, or shall treat or enter into any terms with such rebels or enemy without Her Majesty's licence or licence of the general or chief commander, shall suffer death or such other punishment as by a court-martial shall be awarded." 311
 MR. MARSH  said, that he was glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) bear testimony to the high character of Governor Eyre for moderation, justice, and humanity. He was glad that the right hon. Baronet had brought forward the subject, as he himself knew that Governor Eyre was remarkable for his kindness and humanity to the Natives of Australia. As to the question of Reform, he believed that no Bill would be passed that Session, and that it would be useless to bring one forward. For his own part, he was quite satisfied With the Bill of 1832, and with its marvellous results. Since the passing of that Bill a vast number of measures had been adopted by the House, calculated to improve the condition of the working man. At present, the taxation of the country was so arranged as to lean as lightly as possible on the working classes. While an income tax has been imposed on the
 324
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  agreed entirely with what had been said by previous speakers with regard to the unsatisfactory character of any Bill which should deal with the franchise only, and leave to the future the question of the re-distribution of seats. In his opinion, the coming Bill should be large enough to settle the question for some years to come. He quite admitted that there was an inconsistency in bringing in one Bill which should lower the franchise in certain boroughs and another which should deprive them of representation altogether; but he endorsed the opinion of the hon. Member for Birmingham, that the people who had waited so long and so patiently for Reform should be content with any step that was definite and positive, and not wait for any Utopian scheme of perfect Reform. He did not believe that any Bill dealing with the franchise only would be entirely satisfactory; but he would accept it, because he believed, with the hon. Member for Birmingham, that in the present constitution of the House it would be impossible to carry one of a more satisfactory character. There were, unfortunately, on our side of the House a number of men calling themselves Liberals, but who talked mere Toryism, and contended that legislation should be "for the people, not by the people." Again, there were Gentlemen on the opposite Benches who were unwilling to sacrifice the seats of nomination boroughs, or boroughs of corruption. He had no doubt that the hon. Member for Birmingham had been agreeably surprised at the exhibition of sentiment which had been made in the House that evening, every speaker having tacitly implied that there was a necessity for a Reform Bill, and that a Reform Bill,
 333
 MR. WALPOLE : Is my right hon. Friend aware that the first Report of the Commission is not yet in the hands of Members?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I have not received any information on the subject to which the right hon. Baronet refers. I shall, however, make inquiries, and give the right hon. Baronet a full reply on a future day.
 MR. T. B. POTTER  said, he had taken part in the great meeting held in Manchester on the subject of the Jamaica massacre. The antecedents of Governor Eyre were laid most fully before that meeting, and every credit was given to him for his conduct when he was in Australia. All that the meeting asked was for investigation, and the deputation to Earl Russell, of which he had the honour to be a member, preferred the same request. They judged Governor Eyre purely by the evidence contained in his own despatches. The meeting wished to do nothing condemnatory of him; they merely wished that the name of England might be vindicated from what they considered a blot on the national escutcheon.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : One word before the Question is put. In reference to the construction which the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich has placed upon an answer given by me to a question on the subject of Reform, it certainly never was the construction which I intended it should bear. The right hon. Baronet said it was very undesirable—and I entirely agree with him—that the question should be kept dangling before the House and the country as a party question from year to year; and I think he said the answer which I had given left it in complete uncertainty whether the Bill founded
 327
 SIR GEORGE GREY : That question should be addressed to the right hon. Gentleman in the Chair. Of course, I do not mean that the right hon. Gentleman is personally responsible for its circulation, but some officer of the House under the right hon. Gentleman's direction must be so.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I presented the first Report on the first day of the Session, but I am not responsible for its circulation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that a copy of that Report had been laid before Her Majesty, having been received by him only the day before yesterday. He had received a letter from the secretary to the Commission, stating that the Appendix, containing the opinions referred to in the Report, was not yet ready, but that it would he in a very few days. He had requested the secretary to send the Appendix without delay; but if that were not done, perhaps it might be convenient to place the Report itself in the hands of Members without waiting for the Appendix.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could assure the hon. Member that he had no intention of claiming any precedence for the Government on Tuesday nights. He gave his notice without reference to the fact of that particular day being the ballot day, and it was not until he knew of the hon. Member's notice that he had observed the coincidence. He had communicated privately with the right hon. Member for Droitwich to state that he should be quite willing that the right hon. Baronet's and hon. Members' notices should take precedence of his. [Sir JOHN PAKINGTON: Hear, hear!]
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Those Returns will be laid on the table as soon as they are in a condition to be laid before the House. I am not in a position to say when the Reform Bill will be introduced; and, therefore, it is impossible for me to
 307
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I can only say that Her Majesty's Government have called for such information as they think necessary in order to lay before the House a Bill on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : It will he better to lay the Returns, and all the papers connected with them, on the table at the same time.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Those Returns will, I hope, be soon completed; and it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to lay them before the House when they shall be completed. It is better, therefore, to wait for the Returns themselves, as it would be very difficult to give in detail correct information on the subject referred to by the noble Lord. Before communicating the Returns to the House we wish ourselves to be assured of their accuracy.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thanked his hon. Friend. It would be more convenient to postpone the Question till he made a general statement as to the intentions of the Government.
 SIR HENRY HOARE  claimed the indulgence of the House, whilst addressing a few observations to them for the first time. While deprecating the idea that he was about to prejudge or impugn the
 331 Nimium ne crede colori
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I readily assented to the suggestion made to me last night by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because I felt the force of the appeal which he made to me with regard to the possible postponement
 313 314 315 "I say from the beginning to the end it is a mass of illegality, and I believe there is not a Judge who sits upon the bench in the United Kingdom, who, speaking in his private capacity, would doubt for one single moment that Mr. Gordon was murdered." "I take my opinion only from documents furnished here by those whose interest it is to put the most favourable interpretation on their conduct, and I say that murder is foul, and that there is no murder more foul than that done by men in authority under the pretence of law; I say if murder has not yet changed its name, and be yet a crime visited with punishment in this country, then I hope that the Governor of Jamaica and his accomplices will have to stand at the bar of justice for the murder of Mr. Gordon." 316 317 318 319 "I have directed that information should be procured in reference to the rights of voting in the election of Members to serve in Parliament for counties, cities, and boroughs. When that information is complete, the attention of Parliament will be called to the result thus obtained, with a view to such improvements in the laws which regulate the rights of voting in the election of Members of the House of Commons, as may tend to strengthen our free institutions and conduce to the public welfare." 320
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade a Question of which I have not given him notice—namely, Whether it is true that counsel, who appeared on behalf of the relatives of persons lost in the  London,
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  asked the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it is his intention to introduce any measure for more effectually securing the execution of the Laws relating to the Poor in the Metropolis?
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, it was generally admitted that the present power was insufficient to cope with the private business of the House. There were two modes by either of which the difficulty might be met. One was, strengthening the machinery; the other, lessening the amount of the work. He was of opinion that the private business had increased in consequence of the Rules of the House not having been strictly observed. If hon. Members examined the Bills now being promoted, they would find that a number of them were continuance Bills; they would find that Bills had been granted to parties who were unable to carry them out; and they would also find that Bills were being promoted this Session to repeal parts of Bills passed last Session. A recurrence of such a state of things might be prevented in a great measure if the rules relating to private Bills were rigidly enforced. If the House did not agree with him as to the expediency of applying that remedy, there was the alternative of more powerful machinery. He thought the matter was one deserving the attention of his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Wilson Patten) and of the House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  observed, that it was quite impossible to look at the list of Private Bills before the House without feeling that, in the present Session, there would be very great difficulty in dealing with private business. He did not think they should take any other than the usual course in proceeding with the Bills; but, seeing that there were 633 Private Bills to be disposed of, he thought it was for the Speaker's consideration whether one Court before which these Bills came ought not to be strengthened—he alluded to the Court of Referees. He believed it must be admitted that this Court had saved the time of hon. Members during last Session; and as there were at present in the House nearly 200 Members inexperienced in the transaction of private business, he asked whether a second Court of Referees ought not to be appointed to sit at the same time with the other. It was customary with the Committee of Selection to send out circulars inquiring of hon. Members at what period of the Session it would be most convenient for them to give their services on Committees. He would request of hon. Members to send in their
 344
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he could not but think that the suggestion of the hon. and gallant Gentleman was well worthy of consideration, regard being had to the state of the private business. He must say, however, that increasing the numbers of the Referees would be virtually doing that which, though it had been more than once recommended, the House had not sanctioned—namely, taking the Private Bills out of the hands of the House. If this should be done, and those Bills handed over to other tribunals, he thought there ought to be a more general measure. He thought that during the present Session they must go on as usual; but the matter ought to be attentively considered in time for next Session.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he must remind the House that with the view of facilitating the despatch of private business the number of Members on Committees had been reduced last Session.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, that he, for one, thought that the House was fully competent to discharge its own business. Last Session he was so struck with the alarm expressed on the subject of Private Bills that he went to his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Wilson Patten) and said that, in order to facilitate business, he was ready to serve twice during the Session; but instead of any such additional service having been required of him, he had not been called upon to serve even once.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  seconded the Motion.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I must say I am somewhat surprised that the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets should have lent the influence of his authority to the course he has proposed. I have great respect for the abilities of my hon. Friend, and I am quite sure on all occasions he is actuated by a desire to discharge his duty faithfully. Yet, speaking for my own part, I must say I think it would be a matter most deeply to be lamented if the House of Commons gave its sanction, even for a single moment, to such a course. It is equally opposed to all the principles upon which we ought to act; to the rules which guide the proceedings of the House; and to all the interests of every Member of the House, which are, as I think, involved in its rules and practice, as well as in the law on the subject. My hon. Friend has attempted to draw a distinction between the privileges of the House and the law of the land. He says this House is not to consider itself debarred from exercising its powers of interference with matters of election, and that those powers cannot be taken away except by the most express terms of an Act of Parliament. Sir, I venture to say, when this House is a party to the passing of an Act of Parliament to regulate its own practice, in matters connected with its own privileges, which experience has shown to be most delicate, liable to abuse, and liable also to the suspicion of abuse, the House is best consulting its dignity, and best preserving its own privileges in the truest sense of the word, by showing the highest degree of jealousy in maintaining those several rules and regulations which have been established by that Act of Parliament. The real question, viewing it on this and on all like occasions as one of principle, is, whether the course upon which you are now invited to enter is or is not in substance an evasion of the laws which we have laid down for the government of our proceedings, and by which we are bound, even although there be no authority to compel their observance except our own sense of what is due to ourselves and to the law. For what is the principle involved in this case? The Act of Parliament enacts that every complaint of any improper election or any improper return with respect to an election, whether preferred by a candidate or an
 353 354 355
 SIR GEORGE GERY : We propose that they shall not be put on a railway without a licence, the conditions of which are to be prescribed by the local authorities; but this will not apply to cattle passing through. Thus, if cattle should be passing through Northamptonshire, the magistrates would not have power to stop them  in transitu
 MR. BRIGHT  wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman whether in cases of compensation each county would be independent within its own boundary; or whether the funds of all the counties would be put into one joint fund for general assistance throughout the country.
 THE CHAIRMAN : I am bound to point out to the hon. Member that the House is now in Committee upon the Bill introduced by the right hon. Baronet. The hon. Member for Northampton has given notice of a separate Bill, which he will naturally introduce on another occasion.
 THE CHAIRMAN : The question before the Committee is, that I be directed to move the House that leave be given to bring in a Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : They will not be prevented from shutting them out.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) has referred to the educational progress which my right hon. Friend the Home Secretary has made on the subject before the House, but I think that taunt might have been well spared. I rise for the purpose of removing all manner of doubt as to the course which the Government are disposed to take with respect to this question. So far from being inclined to offer any opposition to the hon. Gentleman's Bill, the Government will regard it as a very great advantage to have that Bill laid on the table. I am sure I may say on the part of my right hon. Friend that he will be exceedingly happy still to receive any lesson from the hon. Gentleman upon this question, a question which to some is so practically plain and simple as that no rational man can differ about the proper course to be pursued, but which, in fact, in every day's experience, appears to be more
 398 399
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am not venturing upon this as mere criticism, but the stringent part of the plan of the hon. Member, the prohibition of the movement of cattle to a man's own farm, except along 200 yards of a highway, was to expire on the 25th of March. But it is during the interval while that stringent provision is to be in operation that the difficulty will be most felt with respect to the supply of meat and with regard to the slaughtering of animals in farms and farm buildings. I confess it seems to me that the difficulty of carrying on the slaughter of beasts freely in farms as they are now constituted would be enormous. But what I want to call the attention of the hon. Gentleman to is this, he having paid great attention to this subject, and having studied it thoroughly with reference to the circumstance in his own neighbourhood. I think the hon. Gentleman in some degree forgets that in coming down to this House he will meet the representatives of every portion of the country, and he will find himself in conflict not with my right hon. Friend, but with them. I do not speak now of the representatives of towns, but of the representatives of different portions of the country, and from many parts which are free from disease. Now, Sir, if we are to approach this subject in the spirit and with the intention of every Gentleman stating strongly and warmly insisting upon his own particular view, we may just as well not approach it at all; because it is perfectly plain that the question we have to consider now is not merely what plan is the best in the abstract, but which is the plan which, being good in itself and promising on the whole the most important effects, can rapidly secure the approbation
 401 402
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That is what I thought the hon. Gentleman described as a period of two months. But he appeared to me to be considerably hampered and entangled with exceptions, and to make proposals with a view to giving effect to his own plan which were totally inconsistent with its character as a remedial measure. The hon. Gentleman said he felt himself pressed by the difficulty which had been stated by my right hon. Friend in a very clear and effective manner as respects the general introduction of a system of slaughter in the farms, which if it could be done would no doubt be the most effectual, for the slaughter of cattle in that way has been proved to be so. But the hon. Gentleman appeared greatly to underrate the difficulties of the plan which he proposed of a total prohibition of the movement of cattle, with respect to its requiring general or at least very extensive conversion of farms into slaughterhouses. The hon. Gentleman recommended that new slaughterhouses should be provided after the passing of this Act, and be built in time to be brought into operation, so as to enable all the arrangements of the past trade of the butcher to be adapted to
 400
 MR. CUMMLNG-BRUCE  said, he could not express any decided opinion upon the clauses of the Bill; but he was quite sure that every Gentleman on both sides of the House would concur in rejoicing that Her Majesty's Government had at last, even at the eleventh hour, introduced a measure which would have the effect of relieving those concerned from the confusion caused by a multitude of authorities and jurisdictions from whom no uniform, consistent, or harmonious directions could be expected. It was only that morning that he had received a letter from the clerk of the peace for the county which he represented (Elginshire). The magistrates of the county had forbidden the use of the markets in the county up to a certain date, but the clerk to the magistrates at Elgin had stated in a letter that, unless the Morayshire Farmers' Club would guarantee compensation to those who sustained losses through the suspension of the cattle market, the magistrates of the town had resolved to take no steps to prevent the holding of the ensuing cattle market. He thought they might congratulate themselves on getting rid of this kind of local self-government. He was no more an advocate for centralization than was his hon. Friend the Member for Aberdeenshire (Mr. Leslie); but it should be remembered that the present case was exceptional, and of a character which could only be met by what his hon. Friend might term despotic, or, certainly, central action. He must say that he felt extremely glad that they had at last a measure presented by the Government which he thought might be made efficient and useful. Some points, however, he had hoped to see dealt with with greater force, and one of these was disinfection, which might be made very serviceable, and would certainly be regarded with greater satisfaction than the rude system of slaughter with the pole-axe. An eminent professional gentleman (Dr. Dewar) had detailed in a Stirling paper a simple and efficacious process of disinfection which he had tried with exceedingly satisfactory results on twenty homesteads in the counties of Fife and Forfar, where the disease had been very prevalent. It was grounded upon the fact that no disinfectant was so successful as sulphurous acid. A piece of sulphur about the size of a man's thumb, burnt in a brazier introduced into a fire, would entirely destroy the vitality or germ of infec-
 407 408
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he rose not to take part in the general discussion, but simply to explain with respect to Scot-
 422
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, he preferred the Bill of his hon. Friend the Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt). The radical evil of the Government Bill was that it said "you may" do such and such things. The result would be that if the magistrates at quarter sessions in one county kindly chose to yield to the feeling of a number of farmers, the farmers in the next county might find themselves placed in an unfair position by a different bench of magistrates. As to giving facilities for transmitting live cattle to the markets in London and Manchester a difference would be made between the live-meat market and the dead-meat market, which would cause considerable dissatisfaction. The Government appeared to be trying to put an end to the disease by acting pretty nearly on the same system as that which had been found so thoroughly useless and absurd. He was astonished at one thing which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey). Under his Bill there was to be a new system of extended licence and extended movement for cattle—whether for fat, lean, or store cattle. At present, in Lincolnshire, cattle only meant for slaughter might be sent to the butcher or to the station. The consequence of the system was that instead of isolation there was propagation. Another point on which the Bill of his hon. Friend was superior to that of the Government was, that by providing for a month's cessation of the transit ample time would be given for properly cleansing the trucks, an operation for which the right hon. Baronet's Bill did not give sufficient time. With regard to the introduction of Irish cattle, it had been asked what objection could there be to letting them come into the country provided a sufficient licence was obtained at Liverpool. But on arriving at Liverpool they might meet with other cattle who might communicate the disease to them; and if they travelled two or three hundred miles who was to certify that the cattle on their arrival at their destination were perfectly pure. Last year there was a fair at Peterborough, from which place the disease was spread through Northamptonshire, Huntingdonshire, Lincolnshire, and Bedfordshire, by menus of cattle bought at
 423
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, with reference to the powers to be vested in the local authorities, that it was the part of the Government to issue the necessary Orders throughout the country. In reference to one remark which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey), who said that the Government had conceived that the compulsory slaughter of infected animals was the best course to be taken, and that they had given orders to that effect, but the farmers would not consent to it, he wished to observe that many of the individuals appointed as inspectors were not qualified to judge as to whether beasts had the rinderpest or not; moreover, no compensation was offered by the Government for this compulsory slaughter, and of course everybody objected to it. The right hon. Baronet had also said that there could not be found in our ports a sufficient number of slaughterhouses in which to slaughter so large a number of beasts in so short a time. He would remind the House, however, that the rinderpest was not a plague indigenous to this country, but it had been imported from abroad. Every year the extension of railways into those countries where the Steppe murrain is indigenous brings the plague
 427
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to
 428
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he could hardly express the satisfaction with which he heard the proposal of the Government to meet an evil admitted on all hands, and proved by the statistics which the hon. Gentleman had quoted. He had stated that he was far from deprecating any of those improvements in the metropolis which must follow upon the great demolition of houses which was going on. While glad that Government proposed to meet the immediately resulting evil, he would suggest whether, as there were large districts which were nothing better than fever-producing and pauper-producing districts, compulsory powers, such as those conferred on railways, could not be vested
 432
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, it was not his intention to go into the merits of the Bill of the Government further than to remark that it appeared to him that by the principle of compensation proposed those counties which had suffered most from the cattle plague would suffer most by the assessment. The benefit to be derived would be in exact inverse ratio to the assessment. Therefore in some counties, as in the one he himself represented (Forfarshire), where nearly all the cattle had been swept away, the people would be called on to pay very large rates for stamping out the plague; whereas those counties where the disease did not exist would have to pay absolutely nothing. Now that was manifestly unfair and unjust. The rate should be a general one extending over the whole country. This was not only a stockowners', but a consumers' question, and therefore extending over the whole country. The consumers were at this moment paying for the effects of the cattle plague—it was answered—in the increased price of meat. To a certain extent they were; but if the cattle plague were not stamped out they would have to pay twice as much. To a certain extent the burden ought to fall on them, but that that burden should fall on those localities least able to pay was manifestly unjust, and he should oppose any such proposal to the utmost of his power. He could not see the justice of the distinction sought to be drawn by the right hon. Gentleman between compensating the owners of
 414
 MR. COWPER  said, he rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to authorize the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Works and Public Buildings to acquire, by compulsory purchase or otherwise, certain lands, houses, and premises in the Parish of St. Margaret, Westminster, The houses in question were those lying between Parliament Street, King Street, and Charles Street, and their removal become necessary to enable the front of the quadrangle formed by the new Government Offices to be completed. The purchase of these houses had been in contemplation for a considerable time, but they had not been interfered with till the progress in the erection of the Public Offices rendered it actually necessarry to remove them.
 MR. COWPER  said, the Bill which he desired to introduce did all that was necessary for providing the site which was wanted for Public Offices. The widening of the southern end of Parliament Street would be an important metropolitan improvement, but it could not be included among the purposes of this Bill.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he congratulated the House on the question before them not having become a party one. He believed that Members of that House were all, without any distinction of party, determined to put their shoulders to the wheel to do all in their power to check the spread of a disease which had already done so much injury to the country. He took the earliest opportunity of directing the attention of the Government to what really was
 409 s
 LOUD JOHN MANNERS : The right hon. Gentleman loudly cheered the proposition contained in the speech of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire that it would be necessary to have an open time after Lady Day next, when transfers of stock might be effected in cases where there was a change of tenancy. The conclusion I draw from this admission is that Her Majesty's Government acted wrongly in not calling Parliament together at an earlier date, as it is obvious that in so short a period as must elapse before the restriction is removed much good cannot be effected. We are told that the reason why Parliament has not been called together earlier is that at the end of last year public opinion was so immature upon the subject that had we been assembled the action of Her Majesty's Government would have been found far in advance of the proceedings Parliament would have been inclined to sanction. That is begging the entire question. I am prepared, on behalf of myself and of every Member present, to repudiate the charge that our ideas were behind those of the Government. Why, in what frame of mind, and with what knowledge, should we have come to the consideration of any measure which the Government might have proposed at the end of October and the beginning of November? We should have had in our hands the whole of that
 410 411 412 413
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to offer two suggestions, by the adoption of which the Government might, he considered, improve their measure. The right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) proposed that all diseased animals should, of necessity, be killed; but that as to those animals which had come into contact with disease animals, and had thereby become infected, it should he left to the local authorities to decide whether they should be slaughtered or not. This, he thought, was radically wrong. If they desired to stamp out the plague they must do as other countries had done, and slaughter not only the diseased but also the infected animals. The example of Aberdeenshire had been adduced as perfect; but what had they done there? They were not content with destroying merely such animals as had the disease, but they bought up the whole herd and killed it. He now came to his second suggestion. He agreed with the noble Lord the Member for North Leicestershire (Lord John Manners), that they must entirely stop all movement of cattle. The right hon. Baronet had warned them that if they did that they must resort to a dead-meat market; but he did not show that any evil would result from adopting that alternative. Many advantages would, in his (Lord Robert Montagu's) opinion, attend the establishing of a dead-meat market. At present, animals often suffered a great deal in travelling to market; and, moreover, the bones, hides, hoofs, and offal of cattle, to the extent of many thousands of tons, were now brought long distances into large towns, where they were utterly useless, and therefore they had
 415 416
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked, with regard to store cattle from Ireland, if they would be allowed to be sent to the graziers in England?
 MR. AYRTON  said, after the statement of the Attorney General, he would not adhere to his proposition. He had proceeded upon what he considered unquestionable matter of fact. He asked leave to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. AYRTON : I claim the attention of the House for a short time whilst I bring under its attention a question which concerns most deeply not only the privileges of the House in its collective capacity, but also the rights and privileges of individuals elected to sit in this House. I believe that there is some misapprehension in the minds of some hon. Members as to
 346 347 "That although the return of the indenture to the Crown Office has always been required by the House as the best evidence of a Member's title to be sworn, yet that the absence of that proof cannot affect the validity of the election, nor the right of a person duly elected to be held a Member of this House." 348 "With reference to your communication to me this morning, to the effect that Mr. Longworth authorized you to tell me that he had inspected the King's County poll book since the election, and was now satisfied that I had the majority of votes over Sir Patrick O'Brien, may I trouble you to let me know whether you have also cast up the books, and can corroborate the statement of the high sheriff that I have the majority." "My dear Sir,—I have just received yours of yesterday's date, asking me if I can corroborate the statement of the high sheriff that you had a majority of votes over Sir Patrick O'Brien, and in reply beg to state that I myself inspected the poll books at the Hanaper Office on the 31 at of July last, and was then satisfied that there had been a mistake in the totting up, and that you had a majority of votes. My conversation with the high sheriff to which you allude took place only a few weeks ago." 349 350 351
 MR. AYRTON  said, that if hon. Gentlemen opposite were wise, they were wise after the event. He had no wisdom; and he had risen to ask for some information as to what was proposed to be done relative to the metropolis. The circumstances of the metropolis were very peculiar, and it had, no doubt justly, come in for a large share of condemnation in regard to the propagation of the disease. No doubt the metropolis and the large towns had been the centres and sources of the disease in this country. The manner in which the cattle had been imported was most unsatisfactory. The metropolis had, unfortunately, no municipal institutions strong enough to deal with the circumstances of the case, for the cattle had been brought together under the best conditions for allowing any infected animal to give the disease to the rest. He went to see the cattle on their arrival, and it was surprising to find what was left undone when so little authority would have cured the evil. The place in which the cattle were collected was not paved; and they were wallowing knee-deep in compost, under circumstances most favourable to the diffusion of the disorder. He had not heard the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) say anything of the way in which the Bill proposed to deal with the dairies of London. They obtained much of the food of the cows from the London breweries, but they received other food from the country. This food was brought in carts, and the manure of the cattle was taken back in the same
 420
 MR. LAYARD : In reply to the Question of my hon. Friend, I have to state that the award of the Emperor is not yet complete. Certain inquiries have yet to be made, aided by a Commission appointed by the Turkish, Egyptian, and French Governments, and the Suez Canal Company. Those Commissioners are engaged in their inquiries; and when those inquiries are completed, I shall be in a better position to speak on the subject.
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I am one of those who are unable to join in the inculpation of the Government for want of promptitude to the extent that other hon. Members have expressed dissatisfaction, for it happens that I am connected with the Governorship of the Royal Veterinary College, and, therefore, had the earliest information of the danger which is now fully perceived. Yet, when in August, September, and October, in my own neighbourhood, I endeavoured to sound an alarm, I gained but little attention, even among my friends. Veterinary surgeons also, when they endeavoured to impress their clients with the danger that was impending, were treated as though they were only seeking for practice and for fees. But after the Report of the Royal Commission, I think that the Government showed less promptitude than I had expected. I think that after that Report, they should have enforced greater stringency. Now, let the House consider the nature of the Bill which the Government have introduced. This is a Bill not merely for an emergency; it comprehends provisions that are to last for years. I do not say that the provisions of the Bill are altogether inadequate, though I think that some of the provisions should be more stringent, and that there are some serious omissions. But my belief is that, if the Government intends to deal fairly with the House, and to act with that promptitude which I think necessary, it would have been far better to have proposed certain Resolutions to the House, and on the adoption of Resolutions with respect to cattle traffic and importation, that the Government should then have issued Orders in Council, based upon the Resolutions of Parliament in the first instance, and then should have based their Bill on these same Resolutions; such a course would have ensured a prompt passage through the House. My own opinion goes to a great extent with that of my hon. Friend (Mr. Hunt). Hitherto, I have concurred with my brother justices in thinking that the present restrictions upon the transit of cattle were enough; but the effect of the concurrent testimony given by the agricultural body, and the opinions expressed in this House, have shaken
 403 404 405
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : In answer to the inquiry of the noble Lord, I beg to say that it is my intention to introduce a measure for more effectually securing the execution of the laws relating to the relief of the poor in the metropolis, and that this measure will be substantially based on the Report of the Select Committee appointed by the last Parliament to inquire into this matter.
 SIR PITZROY KELLY  said, the disposal of manure was undoubtedly a very important question, and he hoped that it would receive the best consideration of the Government. It was not his intention to occupy, upon that occasion, the time of the Committee in arraigning the conduct of the Government further than by making the single observation that he believed it would hardly be denied by any one that if they had called Parliament together three months ago they might have pro-vented the loss which the country had since sustained of 120,000 head of cattle. He had listened with much attention to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary; and he believed that it referred mainly to three points to which he (Sir FitzRoy Kelly) proposed at that moment to confine his observations. He felt convinced that if the Government had adopted the three measures—first, of the destruction of all diseased cattle; secondly, of the isolation of cattle suspected of having been exposed to the infection; and, thirdly, of the absolute, total, and immediate stoppage of the passage of all cattle from one part of Great Britain to another—he felt convinced that if the Government had adopted those measures many mouths ago,
 421
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : I wish, Sir, to call attention to one part of the right hon. Baronet's statement, which I confess does not appear to me altogether clear. I cannot but think that if Her Majesty's Government consider that the plague requires a short and sharp remedy they must feel that the delay which has already taken place is very much to be deplored. We are legislating when nearly arriving at a period when the movement of cattle is an absolute necessity. Therefore we are legislating under difficulties, and so far as I can understand from the right hon. Baronet's speech, very much in the same way as we have been going on under the Orders in Council which have preceded it. A great deal is to be
 417 418
 MR. HUNT : The right hon. Gentleman is perfectly right in that criticism as I expressed my views; but the fact was, I was several times interrupted from the Treasury Bench when I proposed to go more fully into the matter. I do not blame the right hon. Gentleman (Sir George Grey) for the interruptions, as he was anxious to obtain information about my plan. It was my fault. But I intended to say that there should be a difference of duration for part one and part two of the scheme; part two relating to compulsory slaughter, and that that part should extend to two years certain, and to the end of the Session of Parliament then next ensuing.
 MR. HUNT : I divided it into two parts. The prohibition should be absolute, except for 200 yards along the road, up to the 25th of March, except upon a man's own farm.
 MR. HUNT : I think not. Not in most counties, at least.
 MR. HUNT : I do not attach much value to the declaration of a man at Liverpool, for instance, who has just seen the cattle arrive. The owner in Ireland might say he knew the beasts for a certain length of time and that they were free from disease, but after they were put on board the vessel, who is to give them a bill of health at Liverpool? Is a cattle jobber to be trusted to give this necessary licence? It appears to me that licences granted on declarations made by people who know nothing at all about the cattle which are the subject of them are not worth the paper on which they are written. I think it will be a considerable risk to have Irish cattle landed under declarations such as I have described, and then removed to all parts of England. I have gone through the different portions of the scheme, which I should like to see introduced to the House. It has often been a reproach, upon the Opposition Benches
 397
 MR. HUNT : But there will be no necessity to put them in uniform; so that this expense may be saved to the counties. A badge to distinguish them will be sufficient. With regard to the fund out of which the compensation ought to come, the measure which at first recommended itself to my mind was different; that a county rate should be raised for animals fed and slaughtered in the county, and a borough rate for animals fed and slaughtered in the boroughs; but the general fund proposed by the right hon. Gentleman satisfies me, though I will not pledge myself to the details. I cannot see my way to the machinery by which we should ascertain, in time for the working of such a measure, the head of cattle of each county, with the view of putting a poll tax upon them; but if the right hon. Gentleman does see his way to it I am very glad, and such a plan will have my concurrence. There was one part on which the right hon. Gentleman did not touch—namely, that with regard to the movement of manure. This is an important question; for the plague has been carried into various parts of the country by manure being brought from London by railway from infected sheds and yards. Up to a certain time there should be a prohibition against such manure being carried by railways. The right hon. Gentleman seems to think that I have a grudge against railways; but, in the case of cattle travelling by the road, you can find out the drover and stop the progress of other animals; but when they are once put on the railways they can defy the entire  posse comitatus 396
 MR. HUNT : Will Irish cattle be allowed to be sent by railway from the port at which they land to any part of the country?
 MR. HUNT : No doubt the cattle might have left Ireland with a clean bill of health, but the vessel which conveys them might have previously carried infected beasts, or the cattle might acquire the disease in the transit. I do not think such an exception ought to be made with regard to cattle arriving from Ireland.
 MR. HUNT : The licensing system is based on declarations. Are such declarations to be made in Ireland?
 MR. HUNT : I feel that I have taken a very unusual course in giving notice that I should, notwithstanding the announcement of the Government measure, move for leave to introduce a Bill on the same subject, but the circumstances of the case are very peculiar, and I trust the Committee will think they are such as justify me in the course I have taken. We have been for weeks and months using every endeavour to induce the Government to
 384 385 386 387 388
 MR. HUNT : Although most counties may favour relaxations in favour of cattle going to the railway or to the slaughterhouse, I hardly think they will endorse the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman, according to which cattle will be free to traverse the country under licence for any purpose. Ear from such a measure being satisfactory to the wishes and opinions of the agricultural community, I am sure they will almost regret that such a Bill was ever put upon the table.
 MR. HUNT : I was about to explain that branch of the subject when I was led away from it by an observation of the right hon. Gentleman. Were I preparing a Bill one of the provisions which I should like to see introduced would be that between the 25th of March and 6th of April, inclusive, the owner or purchaser of stock on any farm where the occupation was abandoned or a change made in the tenancy should under licence from the magistrates, and upon a declaration as to a clean bill of health, be allowed to move his stock either to the farm belonging to such purchaser, or to the place to which such owner of stock removed upon the change of tenancy. The measure which I have sketched out I should like to see continued during the month of April. By that time warmer weather would be due, and a certain experience in the working of the measure would have been acquired. If Parliament were then sitting the Government should come to them for a further measure; if not, they should have power to issue an Order in Council discontinuing the measure, or reviving its operation, if that proved to be expedient. If the measure which I suggest were carried out and enforced, it would be necessary at certain periods of the year to allow movements of cattle for the purpose of stocking the land. [Sir GEORGE GREY: How about breeding?] I shall come to that question in its proper order; or I had better say at once that an exception for that purpose must find a place in any scheme. I believe it to be absolutely necessary to the carrying on the business of a farmer or grazier that there should be periods of relaxation, during which the occupiers of land should he able to purchase cattle to stock their land with. Fourteen days appears to be the most suitable period of relaxation, which should not be uniform all over the country, but the fixing of which should be left to the local authorities. With regard to these periods of relaxation, I should insist on very strict conditions. The cattle should only travel by railway, and by licence, and by that time railway travelling would be very different from the system now pursued. Every pen, cattle truck, and platform would before then have been thoroughly disinfected under official supervision. With regard to the second part of the Bill—namely, that which relates to the slaughter of beasts and to compensations,
 395
 MR. HUNT : Am I to understand that under licence cattle would be allowed to travel during the whole of the period supposed to be covered by the restrictions?
 MR. HUNT : I had not read the provisions of the Bill in that light originally; but, as now explained, the Bill is far more dangerous than I had imagined. Magistrates, it seems, are to have the power of passing animals up and down through whole counties for any purpose whatever under a declaration as to a clean bill of health.
 MR. HUNT : I am always anxious to keep myself within the limits of order, and to support the authority of the Chair. Perhaps, therefore, I may be permitted to put the matter in this way:—If I were going to introduce a scheme, instead of that proposed by the right hon. Baronet, I should do so after this fashion. The scheme would divide itself into two points—the first having relation to the localization or restriction on the movement of cattle, the other to their compulsory slaughter and the amount of compensation to be paid for them. From the 1st of March, when the
 392 393
 MR. HUNT : I was under the impression that we bad gone into Committee on the question of the cattle plague, and that the right hon. Gentleman opposite had moved for leave to introduce a Bill upon the subject.
 MR. HUNT : I was not going to contradict the right hon. Gentleman, but I understood him to say that all the counties allowed some movement of cattle.
 MR. HUNT  wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether he proposed that in all the counties throughout Great Britain, independently of the will of the local authorities, animals should not be removed by railway without a licence.
 MR. HUNT : That is done in my own county, with my consent, and I am myself responsible for the wording of the orders which are in force in Northamptonshire. But consider the position we were in. At the time we were asked to make the order we found that cattle were removed without check throughout our county. At that time under the Orders of the Government we could not stop cattle going by railway through the county, we could not stop animals that had been to London and came back infected from entering the boroughs in the county, where they would be handled by butchers, who would proceed from those boroughs to the farms. It was with reference to those Orders of the Government which we could not contravene that we made these exceptions, allowing the movements of cattle under certain conditions. If we had prohibited the movements of cattle, the owners would have said that the butchers could go to London, buy beasts, and slaughter them in the boroughs of Northampton and Peterborough. That is stopped now; but we had besieged the Government with letters and representations, and the prohibitive Order was issued only on the 6th instant. But for the Orders made by Government those relating to cattle traffic in Northamptonshire would have been different. In moving cattle under licence we have two evils to guard against—fraudulent declarations, and declarations untrue in
 389 390 391
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he wished to ask if, inasmuch as the county rate was levied solely upon the occupiers and not upon the owners of property; and as the evils that result from the cattle plague must, if it continue, fall largely upon the owners of property, and especially of agricultural property; the Government contemplated by this Bill giving to the tenant power to deduct any portion of the rate from his rent, and, if so, for what period?
 MR. GEORGE CORNWALL LEGH  asked whether power would be given to the local authorities to superintend the burial of cattle condemned and destroyed. In the county which he had the honour to represent (North Cheshire) the cattle are dying at the rate of 700 or 800 a week, and unless great powers were given to the quarter sessions he feared the mode of disposing of the carcases might occasion danger.
 MR. SANDFORD  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the award of the Emperor of the French in the affairs of the Suez Canal has been definitely accepted; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government adhered to that award, and whether they will lay the papers relating to it upon the table of the House?
 THE COMPTROLLER OF THE HOUSEHOLD (LORD PROBY)   reported
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to enable the Public Works Loan Commissioners to make advances towards the erection of dwellings for the labouring classes in populous places. He would describe in a few words the present state of the law as to facilities for the erection of houses for the
 429 Vict Vict Vict 430 "At the present moment, owing to the vast changes in the metropolis, by which the houses of the labouring poor have been demolished to so great an extent, the cost of accommodation for them has been greatly increased. It, of course, varies in different localities; but, on an average, the weekly charge for a single room of a very poor description is from 2 s d s.; s s d.; s d s "In London, unless steps are taken, the poor bid fair to be thrust out of house and home, and to have no place left to dwell in. Our Street Improvement Acts and our railway demolitions are turning out the poor by thousands. Even in our crowded and deplorable districts, such as the streets and alleys running out of Drury Lane and in the region of Seven Dials, apartments are not to be had; and the rents in some neighbourhoods have been raised SO per cent. A respectable omnibus conductor in our neighbourhood, who seeks to have two rooms, dingy and small, to accommodate five persons, pays 7 s s 431 s s d s s "The effect, however, of all metropolitan railway and street improvements is the destruction of large masses of houses, the occupants of which are driven towards the suburbs, and the area of London is thereby extended. The Railway Bills of the present Session include within their limits of deviation about 16,000 houses. Now, assuming one-half of that number of houses only to be destroyed, this would amount to one-sixtieth part of all the houses in London, and the occupants of these must find homes nearer to the suburbs, and will require ready means of access to the centre."
 MR. LOCKE  said, that the granting of compulsory powers for public purposes had not always proceeded on consistent, or even beneficial, principles. But, as applied to the removal of nests of fever and the creation of suitable dwelling places for the labouring classes, the question became of general interest and acquired an importance second to none. Dr. Ferguson had shown the effects of overcrowding in fever generating districts; and when such districts were discovered, compulsory powers ought to be given to the municipal authorities to take down the dwellings in which the fever lodged, and erect others in their stead. Local boards, vestries, and similar public bodies had not the means, even supposing them to possess the will, to make advances for the erection of these dwellings; in proposing to find the money the Government, therefore, were taking steps to confer on the metropolis a boon long and ardently desired, and difficult if not incapable of attainment by any other means. In furtherance of the object in view, he thought by judicious arrangements it would be possible likewise to secure the co-operation of influential public companies.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was of opinion that this was a very bit-by-bit mode of proceeding which was proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. All the houses down to Westminster Abbey must ultimately come down, and would it not, therefore, be better to purchase them at once? When the new Offices were built the houses in the vicinity would immediately become more valuable.
 MR. LOCKE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to the present state of the Law as to the Licensing of Theatres and other places of amusement in the Metropolis, and whether it is his intention to bring in a Bill on the subject?
 MR. REBOW  said, he wished to briefly draw the attention of the House to a circumstance which had recently come under his notice, and which he thought of considerable importance. A short time since a vessel belonging to the Great Eastern Railway Company arrived at Harwich, in Essex, with cattle. One of these cattle was found, immediately after the vessel's arrival, to be suffering from the cattle plague, and the Government inspector directed the beast to be slaughtered and buried where it had landed. A hole was dug on the quay to receive the carcass, and the animal was just about to be slaughtered when the town authorities interfered, and refused to allow it to be killed or buried in Harwich. The animal was then put into a railway truck, carried seven miles along the line to the next station, and there slaughtered and buried. Now, he need not inform any practical agriculturist—any man who knew how contagious this disease was—that nothing was more calculated to cause the spread of infection than what had been done in this case by the servants of the railway company. It caused a regular panic among the farmers who lived in the neighbourhood of the station where the cow had been brought to, and the next day they crowded to the petty sessions, of which he was chairman, to complain of what certainly was a most improper act, an act for which the servants of the company had been brought up before the petty sessions bench and fined. As to the general question under discussion, he believed that the only way to check the epidemic was to entirely prohibit the moving of cattle, and to provide a quarantine and cemetery for all store cattle imported. He hoped that the Bill would contain a provision that all fat stock imported should be immediately slaughtered at the port of debarkation, and that quarantine ground and a cemetery should be provided for the store stock near the place.
 MR. MARSH  said, he quite concurred with the noble Lord as to the expediency of killing all cattle which had come into contact with those which happened to have been diseased. A committee of the Legislative Council of New South Wales, of which he was a member, had succeeded in completely stamping out disease in that way. He did not know how it was with cattle; but from his experience in the management of sheep, he was able to state that the disorder by which they were attacked sometimes remained latent for five or six months before breaking out.
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, he should not for a moment attempt to put forward his own personal opposition against the wish of the House; but having been elected by a large number of the King's County constituency, he should be forgetting his position as their representative if he did not venture to address the House after the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Ayrton), of course with the kindest possible view—being connected with himself (Sir Patrick O'Brien) in politics—had brought forward this Motion. He recollected some nine years ago, when a young man in that House, he had the honour to differ from the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and on that occasion he said a thing to that Gentleman which in those days was considered to be inappropriate. The hon. Member seemed not to have forgotten that occurrence of nine years ago, and had selected him (Sir Patrick O'Brien)—he being a Member of the Liberal Party—for his (Mr. Ayrton's) attentions on that occasion. [ Cries of "from the Opposition 352
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, that in the county he had the honour to represent (Berkshire), so soon as the Orders in Council permitted, the magistrates put into effect the most stringent regulations, so as not even to allow the moving of cattle across a road. At that time the disease prevailed in five different portions of the county, and in the eastern part of the county not less than 3,000 cattle had died of the disease. From the moment, however, the stringent orders of the magistrates were carried into operation the disease began to die out, and it had now completely and entirely died out, except in the borough of Windsor, over which the orders of the county justices had no control. Unfortunately, a diseased animal had been brought by railway from the Metropolitan Market to Windsor, and the disease still continued to prevail there. He should not have ventured to offer any suggestions to the Committee if he had not had reason to think that the difficulty of a dead-meat market was not so serious as it appeared. In his parish, where the orders against removal were so stringent that the cattle could not be moved across the road, the farmers sent for the butcher and had their beasts slaughtered on the spot. One farmer who had twelve fat beasts sent for a butcher from Reading, who slaughtered them. He said, "I was not able to dress them quite up to the town pattern." He (Sir Charles Russell) asked the butcher whether, as matter of food and good meat, the flesh was inferior to that dressed under the most careful process. The butcher said it was not; and added, that it would be as saleable as the town pattern if they had the advantage of dressing it in the same way. He had been that day in communication with the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Great Western Railway Company on this very subject of the dead-meat supply, and had been told
 419
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL : Because the disease had been stamped out.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL : It is only with regard to Windsor, which is returned in the other list, and that I thought I had explained.
 MR. WATKIN  inquired whether the Bill proposed to tax property in the towns and counties for the purposes of the Act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the incidence of the county rate would apply as in any other case. It might not be necessary in some cases to make a new rate, because in some counties the expenses under the Act might be very small. In others it might be necessary to levy a new rate, and it was clearly intended that it should be levied in accordance with the ordinary incidence.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I did not say that no county had prohibited removal. I said that almost all had allowed the movement of cattle to a certain extent. There may be one county which has prohibited it entirely, but I am not aware of it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that one of the provisions of the Bill required that in every case, whether of an animal which had been slaughtered in consequence of being affected with the disease, or of an animal which had died of the disease, an Order was to be issued for the burial of such animal. There was also a provision giving local authorities power to acquire land in which to bury diseased cattle. This latter provision had been introduced in consequence of persons having refused to allow diseased animals to be buried on their land.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the funds would be locally raised and locally distributed. When he spoke of a Joint Committee, he did not mean one to act for
 383
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in rising to move that the Cattle Diseases Act be considered in Committee, with the view of asking for leave to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to contagious or infectious diseases in cattle or other animals, said: Sir, the object of the Bill which I have given notice that I shall ask leave to introduce is one which, in the terms of the Speech from the Throne, "deeply affects the interests of the people of this country;" and when I speak of the interests of the people of this country, I do not mean the interests of one class or another, but of the interests of the whole community. That virulent distemper which has appeared within the last few months in this country affects, no doubt, primarily and immediately the agricultural interest, in so far as they are the producers of that great supply of food with which the country is furnished. But it is quite obvious that the supply of food [intimately concerns the interests in the future of the great consuming population of the country. It cannot, therefore,
 356 357 358 359 "That no method of dealing with the cattle plague at the present time will be of any avail unless it provides for—1 The immediate slaughter and burial at least six feet deep of all cattle suffering from the disease, making compensation to the owners in such mode and to such extent as shall be considered advisable." "That the immediate destruction of all plague stricken animals and those in direct contact with them, and the complete isolation and official watching and control of all animals that have been within the influence of contagion, ought by Act of Parliament to be provided for." "That the partial remuneration of the owners of animals affected by those measures be provided by Act of Parliament." 360 "Should the plague break out in a farm, at once kill and bury the animal affected; slaughter, also, all cattle that have been in immediate contact with any beast affected with the plague. Let the inspector in whose sight these operations are conducted make an inventory of the number and value of the remaining cattle. The inventory will afford means of preventing the removal of cattle affected, and may be useful in assessing future compensation if necessary. No cattle ought to be allowed to leave the affected farm alive until the lapse of such time from the last case of plague as may be considered safe." 361 "That simultaneously with the destruction of diseased cattle the transit of all animals, whether by rail or road, be entirely prohibited, with, "they add," such exceptions only as may absolutely be necessary." "Resolved, that the removal of all live cattle from one place in Great Britain to another over highways, and that the removal of all live cattle by railways through Great Britain, ought to be prohibited for a limited time." 362 "With reference to the question of the removal of healthy cattle for slaughter, the opinion of the Chamber of Agriculture and Scottish Farmers' Club, when assembled in Edinburgh on the 13th of December last, at a special and general meeting called to consider the cattle plague, and upon the resolutions passed at which their petition to Parliament was framed, was that healthy cattle which had not been in direct contact with diseased animals might be allowed, under proper certificate, to be sent to the Metropolitan or other licensed markets, or to slaughterhouses to be licensed for the purpose, and that no animal so sent should ever be removed alive from the police boundaries of the said licensed markets or slaughterhouses. The deputation believe that this is at present the opinion of the great majority of the practical farmers of Scotland. Since coming to London the deputation has had repeated interviews with the feeders and breeders of the midland counties, who maintain that the transit of live cattle without exception should be stopped for a limited time. The chief arguments in support of this are—1. That so long as live animals are allowed to be sent at all the risk from evasion of the regulations is great; 2. That disinfectant measures in connection with railway trucks, Ac, cannot altogether be trusted to, and that no complete security can be afforded without the entire stoppage of transit for a time. The deputation is disposed now to think that more weight ought to be given to these arguments than has hitherto been done in Scotland. The deputation, on their part, think that all danger will not be avoided even were this course adopted, as slaughtering in general on the farms in Scotland will be carried out by the employment of butchers and material from the towns, who may be the means of carrying infection along with them. No doubt there is considerable difference between England and Scotland in the arrangement of farms and public highways, which last are more numerous, and in general intersect the land much more in England than in Scotland—thus exposing the English stockowner to greater hazard from the movement of cattle than the Scotch stockowner. But it is extremely desirable that any restrictive measure with regard to transit should apply to the whole of Great Britain without exception, as such would be more likely to be successful. The deputation have stated these views to the members of the conference, but did not consider it necessary to move an amendment to the resolution themselves, although they voted for the amendment moved by Mr. Snow, and seconded by Mr. Duncan (Scotland)—'That healthy fat cattle, under proper restrictions, be allowed to go to market for immediate slaughter.'" 363 "That during the existence of the cattle plague, all imported cattle, sheep, or swine shall be slaughtered forthwith at the port where they are landed; and their hides, skins, and offal disinfected there." 364 365 366 367 "Having been elected Chairman of the Committee appointed to draw up a Report containing suggestions for the regulation of the cattle traffic in the West Riding, and having carried our Report, which was based on the recommendations submitted to Lord Granville and yourself last - month by a deputation from the Royal Agricultural Society, I think you may like to hear briefly the reasons for our decisions, especially as you will be strongly urged to issue a general Order of the Council placing the whole country under one uniform system. In the first place I may mention that, as Chairman of the Cattle Plague Committee of Magistrates, I have placed myself in communication with the mayors of all the corporate towns in the West Riding, and have received numerous letters from them, as well as from secretaries of local agricultural associations, farmers, butchers, &c. As chairman of a railway company permeating a great part of all three Ridings, I
 368 369 370 371 372 373 374
 SIR GEORGE GREY : There is no provision expressly applying to that subject, but the restrictions in force in any district will apply to this class of cattle. The Bill will be limited as to the time of its operation, and will continue in
 375 376 377 378 379 5s 380 381 de die in diem 382
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Yes, and I used it as an argument to show that those gentlemen who are most conversant with the practice of counties, and who are quite as desirous of checking the disease as the hon. Gentleman, did not feel it right to enforce absolute prohibition.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The hon. Gentleman is quite mistaken. I said that in no case should cattle be moved by night, and that in other cases they should not be moved without a licence, which was to be granted by the local authorities in accordance with certain prescribed conditions. I hope the form of licence will be scheduled to the Bill. The provisions with regard to slaughter only affect the markets.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : So they do now.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Yes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The local authorities have already this power, and, in some instances, have availed themselves of it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : How do you propose to arrange as to cattle going from
 394
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am glad to hear that; but I am afraid Berkshire is not returned among the counties entirely free from the disease.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I wish to answer two or three questions which have been put to me during the course of this discussion; and first, as to the local authority in counties, I have to explain what that local authority is. It is intended that the local authority in a county shall be the quarter or general sessions. The hon. Gentleman who put a question on this subject (Mr. Hardy), said that there was a total want of uniformity in the regulations made by the justices in petty sessions. The hon. Gentleman is no doubt aware that I wrote a circular to the chairmen of quarter sessions in October last pointing out the importance of concert, and the desirableness of securing as much uniformity as possible. I do not know whether there is throughout the country generally such a total want of uniformity as the hon. Member supposes; but I may instance, as an example of success in obtaining uniformity of action, the county of Sussex, where uniform regulations had been made by common action amongst the justices of the petty sessions. With this view the quarter sessions were substituted for the petty sessions, throwing the jurisdiction over a wider area and securing greater uniformity. But, said the hon. Gentleman, what are quarter sessions? They consist of a great many gentlemen who come some from one part of the county and some from another, knowing only what is connected with their own districts. Now, that is precisely the rcommendation of the quarter sessions. You secure the agency of a body of gentlemen thoroughly conversant with the agricultural operations of every part of the county. Then as to the formation of committees, it is impossible for large bodies to act in a matter of this kind with the promptitude and decision required; it is therefore proposed that there shall be power of appointing at quarter sessions an executive committee, authorized to associate with them, if they think fit, a certain number of persons qualified as rated occupiers in their respective districts. Nor can there be any objection to the
 424
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Bill provided that a tenant should be allowed to deduct half the amount of the
 406
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Once the cattle arrive in this country they lose their Irish character. They come to Great Britain subject to the licensing system, and the licence must be given on this side. The hon. Gentleman will find in the Bill a form of the licence.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : When they come to this country the licensing system will apply to them.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Yes, provided they do not enter the market of the port at which they landed.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Yes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : As to dead-meat markets being substituted for cattle markets, I expressed an opinion the other day that such a change would be desirable; but I believe it will take a considerable time to effect it throughout the country. I do not think it can be done in a week or a month. Whenever it can be done now let it be done at once. It is in the power of the local authorities to prevent the removal of cattle. The hon. Member for North Lincolnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope) seems to be under the impression that by this Bill we are taking away from the local authorities power to keep cattle from coming into districts within their jurisdiction, or to regulate their movements. His mistake must arise from some want of clearness in my statement. He appears to think that Irish cattle, for instance, might go into any part of the country; but cattle coming from Ireland will be subject to the same restrictions as all other cattle, and can only go to places open for the sale of cattle with the permission of the local authorities. As to my hon. and learned Friend the Member for East Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), I
 425 426
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for West Sussex would draw up a Bill of five clauses which would contain every provision necessary for the stamping out of the cattle plague, the Government would feel much indebted to him.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that his attention had been called to the subject, which was a very complicated one—the more so because the law rested upon old statutes, which, to a certain extent, had become obsolete. His hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Home Depart-
 345
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that while concurring heartily in any proposal having for its aim to benefit the poor, it should not be forgotten that, if all new buildings for the accommodation of the poor were as lofty as those recently erected, London, as a place of residence, would be much less healthy than it had been hitherto. Light and air would no longer penetrate as freely into the streets. If it were possible to introduce some stipulations, that when the
 433
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that the Order referred to by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary as having been made in Sussex was one for the eastern division only. Another and a different Order was made for the western division. This showed that local authorities did not all agree, and that difficulties were sure to arise under a permissive Bill. He had hoped that this class of legislation would have gone out with the last Parliament. During the last Parliament they had nothing but permissive Bills; but it seemed they were to have them still. If the right hon. Gentleman had brought in a Bill of five clauses, in such a measure he might have embraced all that was necessary. Though he might have caused inconvenience to some persons, he would have stamped out the disease. He believed, from the length of the right hon. Gentleman's speech in introducing it, that his Bill would consist of, at least, 100 clauses. It would take a long time to go through it, and the magistrates would require a long time to enable them to master its details.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that considering the state and prospects of public business, he was more than doubtful whether it would be in the power of the Government, during the present Session, to make any proposal relating to the difficult subject of the issue of bank notes. As regarded the particular Question put by the hon. Member, if it implied that the Government might have an intention of enabling the Bank of England to resume the discretionary system which prevailed prior to the passing of the Act of 1844, he was bound not to limit his answer to the present Session; and he would, therefore, say that the Government would not be disposed to enable the Bank of England to resume that system either in the present Session or in any other.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that in accordance with the recommendation of the Select Committee appointed by the last Parliament, and with the engagement which the Government gave at that time, criminal informations were filed last Michaelmas Term against Mr. Welch and the Hon. Richard Bethell, and they now stood on the list for trial at the present sittings; and as far as the Crown was concerned, they were ready to proceed to trial. As to the Rev. Mr. Harding, I think that the hon. Gentleman will feel that if the Crown had prosecuted him it would have thrown delay and difficulty in the way of a proper investigation of the matter; because Mr. Hording will be a most necessary witness, and it would indeed be impossible to proceed with the prosecution without his evidence.
 LORD NAAS , in rising to move for "Copy of the Report of the Committee convened by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to consider the measures that might be adopted for arresting the progress of the Cattle Plague, in case of its appearance in Ireland," and to ask when the Bill promised by the Secretary of State will be laid upon the table, said, he hoped the great importance of the matter would excuse the few remarks he proposed to address to the House. Ireland was now placed in presence of one of the greatest dangers that ever menaced a country. The destructive effects of the cattle plague in England had been very great; but if, unfortunately, the plague should extend to Ireland, the misfortune would be fifty times as disastrous to that country. He could not help, therefore,
 452 453
 MR. COWPER  replied, that it was his intention to propose a Bill on the subject. He had it in preparation, and he hoped that he should be able to introduce it very shortly.
 MR. SAMUELSON  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he intends, during the present Session, to introduce an Amendment of the Bank Charter Act of 1844, enabling the Bank of England to increase its issues against securities, beyond the amount to which they were at present limited by that Act?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that considering the nature of the Bill which the right hon. Baronet had proposed, the tone of his speech was singularly smooth. He seemed to treat his proposal as though it dealt with matters of but slight importance—matters almost of indifference. No one who heard the right hon. Gentleman could, from his tone or his manner, have believed that he was proposing the disturbance of a great constitutional settlement. He (Mr. Newdegate) did not intend to take the sense of the House at present on the subject-matter of the intended Bill, though
 457 Brief Suggestions as to the Oaths taken by Members of Parliament and Others—Her Majesty's Subjects. 458 ex animo 459 Laughter.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he was entirely in the hands of the House in regard to this matter. It was certainly important that early provision should be made for the Government of the colony; but the Cattle Diseases Bill would have the precedence of other business on Thursday, and if the Bill relating to Jamaica should be called on at so late an hour that the House would be unwilling to hear his statement, he should not of course press it. He was, however, anxious that the Government of the colony should receive early legislation in that House.
 MR. HOWES  asked the Attorney General, Whether any steps have been taken to prosecute the Reverend George Rogers Harding, Patrick Robert Welch, and the Hon. Richard Bethell, or any of them, for corrupt practices in obtaining, or attempting to obtain, a judicial appointment, as suggested by the Report of the Select Committee on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court; and, if no such steps have yet been taken, what is the cause of the delay?
 MR. DOULTON  asked the First Commissioner of the Board of Works, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, early this Session, a Bill having for its object the preservation of Commons and Open Spaces in and around the Metropolis?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought it would be more convenient to leave all details as to the mode of raising the money for compensation, in order that they might be dealt with in a separate Bill.
 MR. FAWCETT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, viewing the deplorable condition of the Children employed in many of the Trades in Sheffield and other towns, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a measure for regulating the Employment and securing the Education of those Children.
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  asked, if he was to understand that the right hon. Gentleman definitively declined to accede to the request which he had just made?
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, when the House is in Committee on the Cattle Diseases Bill, he will consent to separate the compensation clauses from the other portions of the Bill, and to embody such clauses in a separate Bill? Cheshire would be greatly affected by the compensation clauses; but he had had no opportunity of consulting with any persons connected with that county respecting those clauses, as he had not yet received a copy of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it would be impossible for him to accede to such a request. The payment of compensation for animals slaughtered, by order of the local authorities, and the power to cause such animals to be slaughtered, were essentially connected. The power to slaughter could not be given without a power to award compensation. At all events, he thought it would be better to postpone, to a future occasion, any consideration of the question of separating the Bill into two parts.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  repeated that he thought it would be impossible to separate those two provisions of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that the Act which applied to the metropolis had had a most beneficial effect, and it was desirable to extend it to the whole country. No Bill had been at present prepared with that object, but he felt the importance of the subject. He hoped it might be possible to extend the provisions of that Act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that there was no objection to the production of the Report. The Government had been in communication with the Lord Lieutenant on the subject of the measures that it was desirable should be adopted in the event of the cattle plague appearing in Ireland, and the Attorney General and the Solicitor General had been instructed to draw up a Bill founded on the report of the committee and on the views of the Lord Lieutenant. It was, however, quite necessary that the Bill should be seen by Lord Wodehouse and the Irish Government, and he could not therefore fix the day when it would be brought in; but it would be introduced on an early day. There was this difference between Ireland and this country, that in Ireland there was an army of police directly responsible to the central Government and not to the local authorities, and therefore that could be done in Ireland which there was no means of doing here.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the subject he was about to introduce was one which, like several others that had been adverted to that evening, had been frequently brought under the notice of the House. A considerable discussion had taken place on it only so recently as last Session. He did not propose, therefore, to trouble the House at any length, but should reserve a fuller statement of the objects of the Bill for the second reading, provided as he hoped that the House allowed him to bring it in. But he would state shortly
 454 "The object of this oath had long ceased. The descendants of the Pretender had long been extinct. What, then, was the course which every man of common sense would consider ought, under those circumstances, to be pursued? Simply to repeal the oath framed for a particular purpose, and the utility of which was now at an end." 455 456 "I A. B., do swear that I will bear faithful and true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and defend her to the utmost of my power against all attempts and conspiracies whatever that shall be made against her crown, power, and dignity." "That the Chairman be directed to move the House, that leave be given to bring in a Bill to amend the law relating to Parliamentary oaths."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that his hon. Friend the Under Secretary for the Home Department intended to give notice on an early day of his intention to ask leave to introduce a Bill to give effect to some further recommendations, beyond those which had already formed the subject of legislation, made by the Commission on the employment of women and children.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON , in moving that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the constitution of the Committee of Council on Education, &c, said, that the Motion was, in fact, for the renewal of a Committee which sat during the whole of last Session, and which was engaged in the investigation of the two Questions stated. The scope of the inquiry proved to be so extended, and the evidence so voluminous, that the Committee were unable to conclude their labours and present their Report; and, under these circumstances, he contented himself by merely moving for the re-appointment of the Committee.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  asked the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he intends to bring on his measure for the Government of Jamaica on Thursday next? He suggested that neither the Jamaica Bill nor any other business ought to impede the progress of the Cattle Diseases Bill, and he trusted the Government would proceed with that Bill  de die in diem.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  asked, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce, during the present Session, a measure for the purpose of abating nuisances arising from the smoke
 449
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I am really sorry for some of the observations made by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hunt), because, notwithstanding his disclaimer to-day, it appears to me that there was a good deal of party feeling mingled with the anxiety he evinces with regard to this distressing question. Now, I think nothing could more lower the estimate of the House of Commons in the eyes of everybody outside its walls than the mixing up of any political and party feeling with a question of this nature. I have read the Government Bill with some minuteness, and I have come to the conclusion—which is confirmed by what I heard fall from the hon. Gentleman on the former occasion and to-day—that the House is doing what is generally a very unwise thing—that is, about to legislate on a panic. There is hardly anything more common, and for myself I do not think anything is more absurd and pernicious, than a panic. The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary has, I think, been rather hustled in this matter, and I doubt whether he, and, still more, whether his Colleague the Chancellor of the Exchequer, entirely approve some portions of the Bill. We are now on the second reading, and though I shall mention one or two things which are matters of detail, yet they are at the same time matters that can only be discussed at this stage of the measure. On looking over the Bill, it appears to me to involve three things—first, an attempt at isolation, in which the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hunt) thinks it does not go far enough; secondly, a general provision to slaughter cattle which are either attacked by the disease, or likely to be attacked, or suspected of
 473 474 "Every local authority shall have power by order to prohibit altogether or to impose restrictions or conditions on the introduction into its district, and also on the removal from place to place within its district, first, of animals or any specified description thereof, excepting for a distance not exceeding 200 yards from part to part of the same farm." 475 "The inspector of my district told me distinctly, a week or two ago, not only that in his own opinion (that of a graduate of the Veterinary College) foxhunting might, but that it had, in some instances, introduced the murrain from infected into healthy districts. I met, on my return from Northampton, on Saturday last, a farmer whose brother, living in our neighbourhood, had recently lost some cattle from the plague. I in-
 476 477 478 "I look upon it that the House of Commons will consider this visitation as a loss in stock in trade of a class, and that such measures as they pass are for the ultimate benefit of that class, and that any losses sustained from those measures must be paid by the class interested and not from taxation or rates." "The loss is a farmer's loss, generally speaking, and cannot be paid out of the public purse any more than an unusual series of disasters at sea could be paid to the shipping interest. I consider that the tenantry have it in their power to help themselves, and were they to help themselves, and were they to unite in forming a general system of epidemic stock insurance, they would he able to meet losses and secure themselves as effectively as shipowners now do through their underwriters." "I venture to hope that you will use your influence to prevent the House of Commons from agreeing to recompense in any way the loss that may arise from measures passed to arrest the progress of the rinderpest. I do so under the thorough conviction that such losses are in many cases quite unnecessary, particularly where slaughtering is resorted to, and that as the class who lose could cover their losses by adopting such precautionary measures as are practised in other trades, you will confer a benefit upon us by making it a virtual necessity our mutually providing against loss by insurance, which will only be done when we find we can get no assistance elsewhere." 479 480
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, there were two Bills before the House, one went to the extent of positively prohibiting any removal of cattle, while the other admitted the desirability of cattle being removed under certain circumstances by licence, the latter Bill to which he referred, and which had been introduced by the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary, was the one which would receive the sanction of the country. He believed that the system of licences was a proper system to adopt, as it was very important that the
 481 s. s. 482 483
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : This debate, Sir, has wandered over a wide range. We have indulged in disquisitions on the merits of foxhounds, and we have gone into the question whether the hon. Member for Birmingham can consider himself superior or inferior to the cows which are perishing. I am too polite to question the estimate of his own claims by the hon. Gentleman, and therefore I will turn to the speech of the hon. Member who has last spoken. The hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. J. S. Mill) has read the history of aristocracies, but lie says that he is not aware of any which is conformable to the ideal aristocracy which he has conceived. I would ask the hon. Gentleman whether his idea of an aristocracy involves their paying the debts of the other classes of the community. My impression is that this is rather a pressing emergency, and that we had better devote onrselves to the question of the cattle plague and leave the question of aristocracies to a future time. The hon. Member for Westminster addressed himself to some important practical questions, and particularly to the question of compensation. Now, it appears to me that, with all his undoubted power of reasoning, he rather mistook the object of the Bill of the Government, and indeed of any Bill that might be proposed on the subject. One of his grounds of objection was that the compensation proposed would be an inducement to the farmer to slaughter his cattle. But the farmer is not asked to slaughter his cattle; the power to slaughter is placed in the hands of the local authorities and the inspectors appointed by them; and the local authorities have a direct interest to keep the slaughter at the lowest possible point, because they will have to pay for their dead. Therefore, instead of stimulating the slaughter of cattle by appealing to the cupidity of the farmer, we really restrain the slaughter by appealing to the economy of the local authorities. Again, the hon. Gentleman seemed to look at the question of compensation in what I venture to say is not a thoroughly practical light, lie seemed to treat it as if he were one of a jury appointed to assess compensation in a case of accident. But the point for the House of Commons to consider is whether there is a great public object to be served, whether a great public benefit will be attained, if that compensation be paid.
 493 494 495 496 497
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, that representing one of the largest agricultural constituencies in the kingdom (East Somerset), he should be sorry to allow the Bill to pass into Committee without saying a few words on the subject. He represented a large cheesemaking county, and were the plague to inflict it, it would perhaps suffer more than any other county in England. It was a county where the most stringent regulations had been carried out. His experience, however, convinced him that Government action was decidedly necessary. However strict were the orders of quarter sessions, they were found to work most inconveniently, as they differed materially from those of the different boroughs in their districts. The very transit of cattle by railways created great confusion; and he had heard farmers say that from the vexation arising from the different regulations on the one side and the other, the remedy was almost worse than the disease. A farmer within his district had been recently summoned before the petty sessions on a charge of having transgressed the orders of the magistrates. For his defence the farmer produced the letter which he (Mr. Grenville) would now read to the House—
 "Sir,—In reference to your letter of the 18th I am directed by Sir G. Grey to inform you that farmers may drive fat cattle to a railway station not situated in their own parish, provided it be the nearest available for the purpose.—I am yours, H. WADDINGION." 501 nolens volens s. s. s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that if at such very short notice the House determined on having a morning sitting to-morrow, many hon. Members might be prevented from attending. Should the Bill not make rapid progress in Committee, he would consider the propriety of having a morning sitting.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that considering the great importance of the Bill, he would suggest that there should be a morning sitting to-morrow.
 MR. AYRTON  deprecated any attempt, in the discussion of this question, to cause a feeling of irritation and antagonism to spring up between town and country. When the cotton famine took place in Lancashire, he most strenuously supported the measure then adopted by the House, by which the wants caused by distress felt only in the towns were relieved by funds raised in the country as well as in the town districts. It had been said that the funds raised for the purpose of relieving the distress in Lancashire were beneficial to the poor alone. Now this was not the case, for had the support of the poor fallen on the ordinary poor rates alone, the rich taxpayers would have most severely suffered. Such being the case, he did not see how hon. Gentlemen could complain so strongly of the principle of compensation recommended by the Bill. He agreed that they should not be carried away by reverence for local traditions and authorities, but should confer power only on such authorities as were sufficiently strong to grapple with a great question like this. There was, however, one thing in the Government Bill of which he should complain—namely, the disposition evinced by the Government to respect every petty and narrow interest. They had, for instance, in dealing with the different municipalities of London, excluded the City. The result of this omission was to entirely exclude the City of London from the provisions of the Bill; whilst of all bodies responsible for the propagation of the disease the City authorities were, perhaps, the most responsible. There was no reason whatever that the City of London should be thus excluded, and he hoped the Government would direct their attention to the matter. There was another point to which he also wished to direct the attention the Government. By the Bill which the right hon. Baronet had introduced, it was proposed to give compensation to the owners of all animals slaughtered, where-ever that slaughter may have taken place. Now, in the Bill by which, on a former
 498
 MR. HUNT : Sir, in common with those Gentlemen who have been kind enough to assist me in the preparation of the measure which I laid on the table the other night, I have had the greatest difficulty in arriving at a conclusion as to what course I ought to take with regard to the Bill now before the House, in consequence of the very great delay which took place before
 461 462 463 "All cattle brought by sea from any place in Great Britain or from any place out of the United Kingdom into any town or place in Great Britain shall be marked by clipping the hair off the end of the tail, and no such cattle shall be removed alive from such town or place by land." 464 "No cattle shall be moved, except by railway, after sunset and before sunrise, except within the limits of the metropolis, inclusive of the City of London." "No animal shall be taken into the district of any local authority contrary to any prohibition of that local authority for the time being in force." "No cattle shall be moved along any highway within the district of a local authority, except for a distance not exceeding 200 yards from part to part of the same farm, where the local authority has prohibited such movement; and where no such prohibition exists, no cattle shall be moved along any highway within the district of a local authority, except as aforesaid, without the licence or contrary to the tenor of the licence of such local authority." 465 466 "A licence under this section may be given by the local authority, or by some person duly authorized in writing by such local authority to give such licence, and such licence shall be in such form and subject to such conditions as the local authority may think expedient." "Every local authority shall have power by Order to prohibit altogether or to impose restrictions or conditions on the introduction into its district, and also on the removal from place to place within its district, of—1. Animals, or any specified description thereof, excepting for a dis-
 467 "No market, fair, auction, exhibition, or public sale of cattle, shall be held during the time that this part of the Act is in force, except as hereinafter mentioned—that is to say, a market for the sale of cattle intended for immediate slaughter may be held, with the licence of the local authority of the district; provided, that in case of boroughs or burghs containing less than 40,000 inhabitants, according to the last census, a licence to hold a market in such borough or burgh shall not be valid unless confirmed by the local authority of the county in which such borough or burgh is geographically situate; or, if it adjoins more than one county, by the local authority of each of such counties." 468 "Every railway, canal, or other company that carries animals for hire within any part of Great Britain shall, after any animals have been taken out of, and before putting any other animals into, any pen, truck, or boat, cause the said pen, truck, or boat to be properly cleansed, and to be disinfected by a washing of lime-water, or by some other effcient means. Any company making default in so cleansing and disinfecting any pen, truck, or boat, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds in respect of each such pen, truck, or boat." "We at present are free from disease, but every day I see cattle trucks in a filthy state. I remonstrate with the railway company, but though they always promise to clean them, I never see a clean truck coming into the station." 469 470 471 472 Gazette,
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that in the course of the discussion on the Bill many important points had been raised, respecting some of which he was not in a
 489 490 491 492
 MR. LOWE : Sir, the speech of the hon. Member for Birmingham is a specimen of a manufacture with which we are all, unhappily, and through his own agency, too familiar—the manufacture of grievances. The hon. Gentleman has just depicted to us, in the most graphic manner, a crowd of aristocrats, sweeping over the country with their dogs and horses, and spreading infection far and wide among the flocks and homesteads. Nay, so inveterate is his habit of setting one class against another, that he does not confine himself to the human race in these things, but he
 484 485 486 487 488
 MR. ACLAND  felt convinced that the remarks of the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Cranbourne) would not prevent Her Majesty's Government from carrying into effect a Bill which, instead of being the result of three or four days' incubation, was the result of long experience and serious deliberation. He did not pretend to be in the secrets of Government, but he could bear testimony to the fact that every practical question relating to this measure had been carefully considered. The principles of the two Bills were these. The hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) proposed to stop all cattle traffic by road or rail for the next six weeks, with certain exceptions; while the Bill of the Government drew a distinction between the infected and the non-infected districts. Now, he believed that no measures, however stringent they might be, would be sufficient to stop the progress of the plague if they were in force for six weeks only. He had been in communication with many landowners and farmers upon the subject, and he believed that a very large number of practical farmers thought what the Government should do should be to enact something that would work not merely for six weeks, but for many months to come,
 499 500
 SIR GEORGE GREY : On one point the House is unanimous, whatever difference of opinion exists respecting the Bills that have been introduced—that is that
 502
 MAJOR KNOX  wished to put a Question to the Home Secretary on a subject which had excited great alarm in the north of Ireland. He wished to know whether it was true that an Order in Council had been issued, or was about to be issued, for the admission of hides and skins of sheep and lambs into Ireland in a disinfected state?
 THE O'DONOGHUE  asked the Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he did not think there was great danger in delaying the introduction of a measure to meet the requirement of Ireland, should the cattle plague extend there?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, his object was to ascertain the views of Scotch Members, respecting those clauses of the Cattle Diseases Bill which applied to Scotland, and especially with respect to the machinery for carrying out the provisions of the Bill in Scotland.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he quite believed in the soundness of the principle advocated by the right hon. Gentleman, but suggested the desirability of striking out in Committee the 4th clause, which gave unlimited power to the Treasury to carry out the same system in future. He thought that Parliament ought from time to time to be informed of the manner in which Government was acting.
 MR. PUGH  said, he wished to say a word with reference to that part of the country (Carmarthenshire) with which he was connected; that was at present uninfected, as were, he was happy to Bay, ten counties in Wales. All, of course, were for preventing diseased cattle from being brought into the district, but there seemed to be no reason for stopping the free movement of cattle throughout the whole of that uninfected area. In the interesting memorandum published in  The Times improvedé emanavit.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that on Tuesday last, before the adjournment of the House, he had made a suggestion which he thought it would be well to adopt. It was—That the compensation clauses, which excited much diversity of opinion, should be made into a separate Bill, and that the stamp-
 512
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  rose to address the Committee—
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to ask, with a view to the progress of the public business, whether the explanation which the Lord Advocate was about to give was the same as that which he intended to give at the meeting in the tea-room to-morrow. It was his object to facilitate the progress of the Bill, which he had been in hopes would be passed through Committee that night. But if there were an arrangement by which a section of the Government was to meet a section of the Members of that House to-morrow it might have the effect of preventing the passing of the Bill through Committee that night. He trusted that the Lord Advocate would make his explanation then with the view of expediting the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, the explanation which he intended to give had reference not to the meeting to be held tomorrow, but to one which had been held two or three days ago, in which the Scotch Members were unanimously of opinion that tenant-farmers should be associated with the local authorities in working the Bill.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would not delay the Committee on any matter which was not of first-rate importance, but to his mind there were some points in the clause which were highly objectionable, and which he would have eliminated. In the first place the tenant-farmers, who were properly disposed to associate with the justices of counties in forming County Boards, and whom it was proposed very justly to associate with the Commissioners of Supply, were to be nominated by the lord-lieutenant. That was not respectful to the tenant-farmers, who were quite as capable of electing their representatives to the Board as the magistrates themselves. In the second place, it was proposed that in case the county authorities should be remiss in enforcing the Act, the Secretary of State, through the sheriff of the county, should have power to do so.
 513
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, he would recommend the postponement of the clause until after the meeting to be held to-morrow, as it involved questions of great importance.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that as it was desirable that the measure should be proceeded with without delay, this clause, which applied only to Scotland, and was likely to raise some discussion among Scotch Members, should be postponed.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he did not see how the postponement of the clause would expedite the progress of the Bill.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, that celerity was the object which they had in view, and he did not see how it was possible in a short time to get tenants to hold mass meetings to elect representatives.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that it was the universal opinion on this subject that whatever was to be done should be done without the slightest delay. Now, the tenant-farmers of Scotland were not a legally-constituted body, and if they were to elect the members of the County Board, providing the machinery for that election would cause much loss of time. He therefore thought it would be better to leave the election of the Board to the Lords Lieutenant and Commissioners of Supply. With regard to the latter part of the clause, he had no desire to retain it if the feeling of the Committee was against it.
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  said, he should support the Amendment. The election of the County Board ought to be left in the hands of the tenant-farmers, who were the persons interested, and not intrusted to the Lords Lieutenant, whose appointments were based on purely political grounds.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate what number of persons the proposed County Boards were to consist of?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Not less than four, nor more than ten.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he thought that the numbers proposed were, especially for large counties, too small. He moved, as an Amendment, that the words
 514
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he desired to draw attention to the omission of any qualification for the tenant-farmers who were to be nominated by the Lord Lieutenant. He would move an Amendment to insert the words "valued in the valuation roll in force for the time at £100 a year or upwards."
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he consented to the proposed change.
 The LORD ADVOCATE  said, he could not agree to the Amendment. The clause was framed like the similar clause relating to England. If the burghs were to be legislated for by the County Board, it would be necessary for them to be represented at the Board.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that if Edinburgh and Glasgow were to be exempted, he should claim a similar exemption for Aberdeen.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that unless his Amendment were agreed to, it would be possible for the boroughs to neglect carrying out the regulations. In some of the Scotch boroughs the Orders in Council and those of the county local authorities had been set at naught. If the Government objected to his Amendment in its present shape, he would suggest that the chief magistrate in the boroughs should be associated with the county authorities.
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  said, he hoped that the Amendment would be accepted; although he admitted that, if Edinburgh and Glasgow were exempted, Aberdeen, Dundee, and one or two other of the larger towns should enjoy a similar exemption.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he trusted that the operation of the Bill would not be frustrated by the clashing of the local authorities. He thought that the Lord Advocate might frame a proviso that would meet the wishes of the hon. Member for Ayrshire.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that if the Government would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) and define the powers to be exercised, then these discretionary powers would not be required; but if the Bill were to remain in its present shape, the Amendment of the hon. Baronet would defeat the whole object of the Bill.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, there appeared to be an intentional omission in this clause. By the clause it would appear that the justices would have power to convene a general sessions at any time. What he would propose was, that it should be confined to the first convening of the sessions, they having power to adjourn from time to time. The object of the Bill was simplification; but he was afraid confusion would be increased if general sessions could be convened by any two justices, each session acting independently and antagonistic to the other.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the clause ran thus—
 "Any two or more Justices of a County may, by writing under their hands, require the Clerk of the Peace to summon a General Sessions of the Justices of the County for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act." 516
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the object of the clause was to facilitate the meeting of a general sessions without delay where the quarter sessions have not been adjourned, and to obviate the inconvenience arising from the necessity of giving a lengthened notice. He had addressed a letter to the chairmen of quarter sessions, pointing out the expediency of adjourning for short periods, and in many cases they had done that. Where that was so, it was not necessary that these general sessions should be convened, because the quarter sessions could meet from time to time. In some counties that had not been done, and in these it was necessary there should be power to convene a general sessions. Perhaps it would be better to provide that where no adjourned sessions was appointed to be held within two or three days from the passing of that Act a general sessions should be convened forthwith. He would prepare a clause which should meet the object of the Amendment.
 MR. HUNT  said, it would be better to postpone the clause and bring up a fresh one on the Report.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would do so.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped that care would be taken not to set up two authorities, for as the Bill was now drawn it was very doubtful whether the general sessions and the quarter sessions would not be in existence both together.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  suggested that the Secretary of State should insert the words "in England and Wales," so as to make it clear that the provisions should not clash with those of Clause 5.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that under this clause there might he an unlimited number of committees, leading to greater confusion than that which even now existed. At first the Government began with the petty sessions; afterwards they felt it necessary to extend the area to the quarter sessions; but even then they found that every quarter sessions throughout the kingdom drew up a set of orders all more or less differing. The object of having an Act of Parliament, therefore, was to go a step further, and make the action national and uniform. The existing machinery was sufficient in all respects except uniformty; but that clause, as it stood, was actually a retrograde step, for it disintegrated the quartet-sessions, and introduced confusion worse confounded. The proper course would be to enable the quarter session of a county to delegate its authority to only one standing committee. He would have only one committee in each county except in particular cases, such as in the county of Hants, including the Isle of Wight, in which case he would have a second committee, taking care, however, to prevent the two from clashing. In that way they would avoid the issuing of clashing orders, and the committee could act within proper restrictions in the intervals between the general meetings. He hoped that that clause would also be postponed for re-construction.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that in order to make the Bill popular it would be best that the executive committees should be of mixed composition, having non-magisterial members upon them.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that if the local authorities were to have the power of granting licences for the removal of cattle, of issuing orders for their slaughter and of regulating matters of that kind, it was absurd to suppose that one committee in the centre of a county would be sufficient in cases where immediate action was necessary at any particular spot. He suggested that the clause should be postponed.
 MR. DENT  said, that the powers to be given to the committee would he very large. He thought there should be only one committee from whom all the directions should emanate. If there were other committees they should be only executive.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the object of the clause was merely to afford
 518
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  said, that the Isle of Wight eminently required to be left to deal with the case by itself, and as far as that island was concerned the Orders in Council gave a convenient authority. The Isle of Wight was a petty sessional division of the county of Hants; and it would be a great inconvenience for the inhabitants to have to receive their orders from a central committee for the whole county, sitting probably at Winchester.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, that a considerable section of his constituents living in a district containing large herds of high bred short-horned cattle, varying in value from £25 to £500 each, complained bitterly of the arbitrary power of the local authorities contemplated by the Government Bill. It appeared to him that by the provisions of that Bill the Board would have power to destroy all the animals in one farm or farm-stead, if in one solitary instance infection was proved or even suspected. He (Colonel Edwards) deprecated this arbitrary power as a gross injustice and a virtual confiscation of property when the amount of compensation was to be so disproportionate to its value. His constituents feel that as in many cases where the rinderpest has broken out, and where isolation has been resorted to at the earliest stage, many cures have been effected—also, that in cases where the immediate slaughter of the suspected animal has taken place the disease has been arrested—that exceptions might fairly be made where such an amount of property was involved, and where no proportionate compensation was allowed to the owners, many of whom must otherwise be utterly ruined.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it would perhaps be better to postpone the whole of the first part of the Bill until the House had determined what the temporary provisions should be.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE : We should in that case come to the temporary provisions of the Bill at once. If you do not have such a clause as this you will not carry out the provisions of the Bill at all.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no intention of abandoning this clause.
 MR. HUNT  proposed the addition of words continuing in office inspectors already appointed under the Orders in Council.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had no objection.
 MR. LONG  said, he hoped that when this clause should come under consideration, the right hon. Gentleman would mate provision for the compulsory disinfection of cattle inspectors, it being strongly felt in many counties that the greatest carriers of cattle disease were the cattle plague inspectors.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would suggest the addition of words providing for the revival of any provisions which might have been discontinued.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he assented to the proposal.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the clause, as it stood, held out a premium on the shifting of diseased cattle from one place to another, inasmuch as while it provided that compensation for the slaughter of a diseased animal should be paid by the local authority, it contained no condition that the animal should have been in the particular locality for a certain number of days previous to its being killed. The point was a very important one for the Metropolitan Market, for he was afraid that if any one in the country districts suspected that his cattle were diseased, he would immediately hurry them up to that market, where of course it would soon be discovered that they were attacked by the plague. They would, upon that discovery being made, be at once slaughtered, and the
 520
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that anybody bringing diseased cattle to the metropolitan or any other market would be liable to a penalty. He had prepared a proviso in reference to compensation, the effect of which was that it should not be given in the case of any animals removed from one place to another in contravention of the Act.
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish, before we go further, to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary whether he does not think it desirable to postpone for the present the clauses relating to compensation. It is admitted on both sides of the House that it would be well to pass as quickly as possible a measure which is meant to put an end to the plague; but then this question of compensation might be discussed more at leisure. I beg hon. Gentlemen to bear in mind that the purport of this Bill is almost entirely unknown in the country. There are hundreds of thousands of persons who may be called upon to pay the tax under this Bill who have never seen the Bill and do not know in the least what we are discussing at this moment. I have never known, since I have been in Parliament, a general measure of taxation, as many feel, of a very doubtful character, hurried through the House in the manner in which from the pressure of the case—I am not blaming anyone for it —but from the pressure of the case it is sought to hurry this. I yesterday made some observations to the House upon this question. I feel we are in danger in our haste of committing a mistake, which, after all, is of no great pecuniary importance probably to anyone, but is of great importance as establishing a precedent on which this House, may be called upon in future times to do that which we shall find it difficult to refuse, and I hope still more difficult to grant. The three clauses which touch the question of compensation are the 13th, the 16th, and the 18th. The 31st has reference to the rate. The 13th says that every animal diseased shall be slaughtered, and that the owner shall receive, providing the amount does not exceed £20, for any beast a sum equal to two-thirds of its value. Now, bear in mind that this is an animal already ill of this complaint. It is not a sound beast—as we call it in Lancashire—in the "shippen" or in the field. It is a beast that, judging
 521 522 523 524 525 526 527
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my hon. Friend has just laid down the principle that the clauses of this Bill are so connected together that it is impossible to discuss any one of them without considering the others at the same time, and I must say he has acted very largely in accordance with that principle. I must, however, be allowed to say, that if his impression be shared by many Members of the House, we have but little chance of gaining the object most of us have at heart —namely, that of passing this Bill quickly. Differing respectfully from him, there appears to me no reason whatever why the various questions, doubtless very important ones, referred to by my hon. Friend, should be discussed on the consideration of the clause before us. My hon. Friend has spoken upon the amount of compensation, if any, that should be given; upon the sources from whence that compensation is to be raised; upon the question as to whether the Bill ought to be hastily passed; upon the principles of isolation and of slaughtering, and of the manner in which I am disposed to treat the question. Now, these questions are entirely distinct from each other. In the first place, I will answer the question addressed to myself. My hon. Friend says I have no interest or care for any expenditure, so long as such expenditure is local and derived from local resources. To show how far that accusation is from being correct, I will at once acknowledge that, in my opinion, both my hon. Friend and the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) hit a blot in the Bill when they pointed out that the rate of compensation for the slaughter of sick animals was too high. Still it would be a great mistake, in my opinion, to fix the rate of compensation in such cases too low. The hon. Member for Westminster says that the outside value of the sick animals is to be ascertained by taking the ratio of the number of animals that recover to those that die. No doubt the value of the animal might be easily ascertained in that manner, but there is something else to be considered before you determine this question. You must take into consideration the natural
 528 529
 MR. BRIGHT : I do not wish to delay the progress of the Bill; but I thought that upon the two points as to the amount of compensation and the sources from whence it was to be derived, considering their importance, and that there was a difference of opinion in the House, it might be as well for the Government to take another day for their consideration, so as not to commit the House to a hasty determination. The House will doubtless divide upon the question of the sources from whence the compensation is to be derived, and the majority can then take whatever course it thinks fit. But I think it would be wise of the House to alter the Bill in that respect. I will now withdraw my Motion.
 MR. JOHN HARDY  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham was mistaken in thinking that simple isolation of a farm would preserve it from the disease. He differed from the hon. Member in the opinion which he entertained, that the slaughtering of cattle was merely for the benefit of the farmer. He might mention an instance which occurred in the county with which he was connected, in which a farmer, finding that the plague had broken out amongst his cattle, slaughtered the whole of them in order that the disease might not spread throughout the district. The Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to think that the compensation proposed was too high. The hon. Member for Westminster considered that it was much beyond the value of the animal. Now he (Mr. Hardy) thought it improper to take the valuation of an animal in a dying state, which might not be worth the value of its skin. When a man had kept cattle through the winter and they were ready for market, £20 would scarcely pay for the value of any one of them. When the disease made its appearance on a farm everything was thrown into confusion, and nothing could compensate the farmer for the failure of his trade. The hon. Member for Birmingham seemed to have decided in
 530
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  proposed to insert the word "immediately" or the words "with all convenient speed," after the words directing all animals affected with the plague to be slaughtered. If the diseased animals were to be slaughtered, there should be no delay about their slaughter, any more than about their burial, which the succeeding clause directed to be done as soon as possible.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the word "immediately" was a relative term. To what would it have reference in this clause? Immediately, after what? If they attempted to be very minute they would defeat the object of the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to ask whether hon. Gentlemen were desirous of adding to the force of the words compelling a slaughter. He saw in the public papers that some gentleman had discovered a treatment for the disease which was supposed to have been effectual in several cases. If an intelligent farmer found that a certain course of treatment was successful, would it not be a monstrous proposition to say that he was to slaughter his diseased cattle at once under a heavy penalty? Certainly this was an odd sort of legislation.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, a remark had been made on the other side of the House, that those who had not suffered ought to pay. But nine-tenths of the population had suffered by the cattle plague. Had they not suffered by it in the payment of at least 2 d.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he did not see the slightest advantage in putting off the question of compensation till they came to the schedule.
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not want a maximum amount for every animal, but a maximum amount for each class of animals. He therefore thought it desirable to have a schedule. He was of opinion that the clause should contain words to the effect, "not exceeding in any case the amount provided in the schedule to this Act with reference to beasts of the class to which the certificate relates." He thought it was desirable to have a schedule in which the amount of compensation should be divided into classes, taking yearlings, two-year-olds, three-year-olds, and, perhaps, making a difference between milch cows and steers as separate classes. He also called attention to the fact, that Clause 13 related not only to neat stock, but to sheep, lambs, goats, and swine, the interpretation clause providing that the word "animals" should relate to all those beasts, and that only the word "cattle" should relate to neat cattle alone. In that case, if there were no distinction between the separate classes, they might have to pay as much as £20 in compensation for the loss of a ram. A bull calf of a few days old, if it came of a valuable breed, might be worth 100 guineas. Were they to pay only £20 for it? He should support the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Aberdeen.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that if they were to go into all these details they never would get on with the Bill. Clause 17 provided that the local authority might require the value of any animal slaughtered under the Act to be ascertained by officers of the local authority, or by arbitration. He thought the object of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hunt) would be attained by this clause. He did not think there was any fear of more than the value of the animal being given, seeing the source from which the compensation was to come.
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not think it would be right to pay the value of every animal. They ought to take the average value of an animal of the class.
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that in Warsaw thirty-five Russian roubles were given for a bull, twenty-five for a cow, and fifteen for a calf—a much lower rate than that proposed by the Bill.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, he thought his hon. Friend had forgotten what the question of compensation meant. The object of it was to induce the owners of cattle to declare the disease. It was not merely to compensate him but to save the country. Now, if the owner of a valuable beast knew that he would get nothing like the value of his cattle after they were slaughtered, of course he would not declare the disease, and the object of this Bill, to stop the spread of the plague, would be foiled. If we were to go to the precedents of foreign countries, which in the interest of the agricultural community was much to be desired, because abroad agriculturalists were better treated than in England, he thought it would be preferable to have recourse to Belgium than to Poland. In Belgium the amount of compensation, according to the declaration recently made by the Minister of State, amounted to more than the value of the animal itself, for two-thirds of the value was allowed to the owners, who were also permitted to sell the meat when not unfit for human food. The result was that in the majority of cases the compensation amounted to the value of the animals. If the hon. Gentleman had devoted as much attention to the subject as it was to be wished he had done, he would have found that the great majority of the animals killed are perfectly fit for human food. The Commission, indeed, was wholly unable to discover any case of human disease resulting from the consumption of this meat. He particularly wished to direct the attention of the right
 533
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he should oppose the Amendment. If it were proposed that the compensation should be divided into classes it ought to be done at once, and the Bill proceeded with.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he trusted that the provision would be so made, that if an animal destroyed were of any value afterwards it might be sold, and allowance made for the sale in the compensation which was provided. He also called the attention of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) to the fact that different kinds of stock in different counties were of different values. He thought provision should be made for that, and that they ought to have two scales, so that the local authorities might be allowed to distinguish between the different values, and place the animals in those different scales. If they only laid down one scale it would not be found to work properly.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he should support the Amendment of the hon. Member for Aberdeen, because it embodied the recommendation put forward by the hon. Member for Birmingham—a recommendation which deserved a greater amount of consideration than it had met with in the House. When the right hon. Gentleman (the Secretary of State for the Home Department) announced this measure, he said it would be a matter for the consideration of the House whether it might not be desirable to deal at once with those parts of the question in which all were agreed, and postpone those with regard to which there existed differences of opinion. Now, these questions of slaughtering and compensation involved such difficulties that he would even now press on the Government whether they ought not to be embodied in different Bills, and whether it would not be desirable to deal at once with that portion of the subject on which a large proportion of the House was agreed. He was surprised at the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) asking whether isolation had not failed. He might, perhaps, refer to localities where the system of isolation had led to a great diminution in the amount of disease; but
 534 The Times "Farmers here have generally been in favour of the 'stamping out' on the same plan as in Aberdeenshire, but within the last week a change of opinion has taken place, in consequence of the successful treatment of the cattle disease by Mr. Alexander. Mr. Garland, of Cairnton, has followed the same treatment; he has a stock of seventy-five, forty of which were attacked, and only one died. In my parish, of which I am convener of the plague committee, I find one herd all recovering from similar treatment, while, at another farm, where no salt had been given, but as much straw and turnips laid before the beasts as they could eat, all had died. As far as our experience has gone, all who have used salt for some time and liberally have had no losses. I have been using it for three months, and have had only one case. I killed the beast because I was in front of the advance, but I believe it would have recovered," 535 "We find the treatment so successful in some instances that we are not at all in favour of the killing principle now." Cries of
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE : I think that it would be comparatively easy for those Members of the House who are connected with the farming interest to draw up a compensation schedule, stating a maximum sum per head to be allowed for cows, for three-year-olds, for two-year-olds, for one-year-olds, and for animals above and under six months. Any arrangement such as that alluded to by the hon. Member (Mr. Hunt) in which £20 would be given as compensation for a bull calf would be objectionable. Calves often are worth £40, £50, or £60; but at the same time great dissatisfaction would be engendered if a difference in favour of fancy cattle were made as compared with tenants' cattle. After what has passed, I \must say a few words on the subject of compensation, but not in the spirit of the hon. Member for Birmingham, who, whatever his own feelings may be—and all must give him credit for honesty—has on two successive days discussed a subject which is felt to be outside of party in speeches more provocative of angry feelings than any speeches I have ever heard. Yesterday I think the hon. Member for Birmingham could not have read the Bill at all, for he talked of farmers receiving compensation for losses. They do not ask for that, and the moment it is admitted that they do not seek to be secured against accident or misfortune, all that the hon. Member for Birmingham has said on that head vanishes into air. The farmers do not ask the
 536 s. s. 537 538
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Lanarkshire (Sir Edward Colebrooke) had suggested that they might proceed with those portions of the Bill upon which they were all agreed. If there was one point more than another on which such agreement appeared to exist, it was that a system of slaughter in the case of diseased animals should be adopted. That opinion had been expressed in the most unqualified terms by the Royal Agricultural Society, the conference at St. James' Hall, the Scottish Farmers' Club, the Highland Society, and by the agricultural interest generally. Now, nobody could recommend the adoption of a system of slaughter without some system of compensation. The only question, therefore, was whether the subject of compensation should be disposed of at once, or its consideration postponed till they came to
 539
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he thought it would be a great mistake and a great evil if they made this in any way appear a compensation Bill. It would give dissatisfaction to every agricultural interest, and everybody connected with land ought to take care that not a shadow of pretence was suffered to exist for calling it a compensation Bill. If his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had only followed up his observations by making some definite proposal as to the amount, he thought the question might have been easily settled. The question of compensation ought only to be entertained so far as it bore on the means of inducing the proprietors of stock to assist in getting the cattle disease extirpated promptly by the most stringent measures, that being the sole object of the Bill. If they carried the money question at all further than this, they placed themselves in a false position. The payment of so large an amount as two-thirds of the value might give a wrong impression as to the true object of the measure.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was very desirable to detach the various points of the discussion, and to keep them apart from each other as much as possible. They were not now discussing the amount of compensation to be awarded, but simply whether it should be dealt with at once or deferred till they came to the schedule. Having settled that point, two others remained—namely, that raised by the words "not exceeding £20," and next, whether the words "two-thirds" should be adopted.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) having improved upon the phraseology of the Amendment, as originally submitted, with
 540
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he thought they ought to come at once to some definite conclusion as to whether they would name a maximum price for all beasts slaughtered, or whether a fixed proportion should be allowed of the value in each case, whatever that value might happen to be. The question was a very simple one, but they must face it at last.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to know on what principle that sum had been fixed?
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the Motion made by the hon. Member for Northampton was that the words "not exceeding £20" be omitted. If it was intended to move subsequently the insertion of any words instead of £20, it might be convenient to put the Question on the words "not exceeding," but if it was the wish of the Committee that he should put the Question on the words "not exceeding £20," he should do so.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as the clause now stood it left no discretion to the persons whose duty it might be to ascertain the value of the animals. He was of opinion, that independently of the question raised by the hon. Member for Westminster there ought to be some discretion in the matter. In Aberdeenshire one of the rules of the association allowed the owner to claim an indemnity of two-thirds of the value of his cattle that died of the disease. But when they took into account the great difference as to the chances of an animal recovering when seen in the first attack and when it had reached the last stage of the disease, it was clear that there must be a great difference in the estimate of its value at those different stages. He did not see how to meet that except by introducing
 541
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to ask were animals to be slaughtered compulsorily, and yet compensation be paid to only half the value?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he had heard with great surprise and regret the proposition of the right hon. Gentleman to alter the Bill of the Government in deference to the views of the hon. Member for Birmingham. It was now sought to cut down the compensation which might be given to a person whose beast was destroyed against his will, to a sum which might be far less than the value to him of that beast. Now, in what position did they place the owners of cattle in the county which he had the honour to represent? If no Act was passed at all, they left the owner of cattle to do what he could for himself. In Suffolk they had a system of voluntary assurance, under which any one whose cattle died of the plague was entitled to compensation to the amount of two-thirds the value of the beast. But now it was proposed to pass an Act by which officers of the Government could go to a man's farm and kill his cattle, and yet they would not compensate him to the value of three-fourths or two-thirds, or even one-half, because by the substitution of words which were not in the clause as originally framed it was absolutely left open to those who had to assess the compensa-
 542
 MR. BARING  said, that the difficulty set up by the hon. and learned Member would in no wise be affected, whether the compensation were fixed at two-thirds or one-half. It would be the same if three-fourths of the value were fixed upon as the maximum of compensation. The difficulty might be overcome by an alteration in the rules of the insurance society, and they could make their rate of compensation accord with the rate of compensation fixed by this Bill.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he very much regretted the course taken by the right hon. Gentleman, which was evidently founded upon the fallacy conceived by the hon. Member for Birmingham, who had asserted that the Bill bad been framed solely for the benefit of cattle owners. If the assertion were a correct one, then the course taken would have been justified; but, as a matter of fact, the Bill established a great principle of public policy. When men were called upon to destroy their property for the public good, they should be
 543
 MR. DENT  said, in his opinion, as a practical man, knowing something of the value of cattle, one-half of the value of a sound beast was a sum sufficiently ample to induce an owner of cattle to come forward. Indeed, £20 was the highest value that could reasonably be placed upon any animal except bulls, and he did not think the House should be influenced by the prices of high-bred stock, valued according to the caprice of fashion. He thought the proposal of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was a very fair one. Many farmers had complained to him of shameful oppression in having their animals slaughtered without compensation, but he had never met with any one who would be a stickler for having more than half the value of the animal.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he quite agreed with the principle of a liberal compensation, on the ground of compulsory slaughter. When a man's property was taken from him for the purpose of carrying out some public work, he was given more than the value by way of compensation perhaps 20 per cent more, because of the compulsory sale. The principle upon which that practice was founded should not be lost sight of in the case under consideration. He also thought something should be done to induce farmers to give information. Then they came to the application of the two principles. The right hon. Baronet had admitted that the value of a beast attacked by rinderpest was reduced to next to nothing. One-half of its value when sound was, in his opinion, an ample advance upon next to nothing, and would, no doubt, act as a powerful motive upon the mind of every owner of cattle.
 MR. A. W. YOUNG  said, the question
 544
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he would suggest the insertion of the words "when sound." That would make the matter quite clear.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he would remind the House that the assessment was not made by the Government but by the local authorities, who would, no doubt, be a mixed body of ratepayers with some farmers among them. They would certainly not fix a higher value than was just, because the compensation would come out of their own local rates. He certainly thought the right hon. Gentleman would do well if he allowed the clause to stand as it was.
 MR. W. DUNCOMBE  said, the phrase "next to nothing," in reference to value, had been used. But in the county he had the honour of representing a mild form of the disease existed. Many animals which had been attacked afterwards recovered; and it would be unfair to the owners of these to reduce the compensation proposed from two-thirds to one-half. It should always be borne in mind that an animal may possibly recover from the disease if attacked. He very much regretted that the Government had listened to the solicitations of the hon. Member for Birmingham. He certainly never expected to get much from the right hon. Gentleman for the agriculturists, but he had hoped for a more liberal suggestion than that last made. He did not expect the right hon. Gentleman would have proposed to dole out the moiety of compensation in any meagre spirit.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he hoped the right hon Gentleman would
 545
 MR. DUTTON  said, he thought that two-thirds of the value of an animal, compulsorily slaughtered by a Government inspector, was certainly not too much to offer its owner. That was the proportion fixed in Aberdeenshire. At the same time, he thought it was just to limit the amount of compensation to be paid for any single animal destroyed to a sum not exceeding £20. It was true that there were many animals in the country of far greater value than £20, but such fancy animals were entirely in the hands of rich proprietors of stock.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, that the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had informed the House that the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) was an authority on every subject. Now, he (Colonel Gilpin) thought that it was the hon. Member for Birmingham who had an opinion on every subject, opinions for the utterance of which it should be remembered the hon. Gentleman had no official responsibility. It did appear that those opinions had great weight with her Majesty's Government, for on that night they had seen the Chancellor of the Exchequer yield on the important subject of compensation to the advice of the hon. Member for Birmingham. He had already heard something about divided counsels in Her Majesty's Government, and in the change which had taken place the House had an example of them. He entered the House that night with the full intention of giving his support to the Bill introduced by the Home Secretary, but he should oppose the change which the Chancellor of the Exchequer, yielding to the advice of others, proposed to make in it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that the hon. Member for Birmingham had advised the farmers to protect themselves from the losses which they may suffer from the cattle plague by mutual assurance societies. The hon. Gentleman was probably not aware that in Warwickshire there were many mutual assurance societies in operation, largely profited by the farmers of that county. These assurance societies —though compulsory slaughter was not enforced—paid to the owners of all cattle destroyed by the plague the very sum which the Government had originally proposed— namely, two-thirds of the value of each animal. There surely was no reason for the Government reducing the scale of com-
 546
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he must call attention to the strangeness of the course pursued by Her Majesty's Government. After one of the illogical and violent speeches of the hon. Member for Birmingham, the Chancellor of the Exchequer suddenly, without notice, announced his intention to alter the proposal of the Government. But the Home Secretary, who was responsible far the contents of the Bill, had not given the slightest inkling of his intention to yield on this point, or any indication that he had based his calculations upon an erroneous principle. The right hon. Gentleman stated that those animals which were to be slaughtered were purchased by the State, and called upon the Committee to decide whether that principle was right or wrong. But was the House now to be told that the principle on which the Government had acted was erroneous, and that they were wrong? The Government were prepared to obey the hon. Member for Birmingham, who seemed on this and other occasions to be virtually the Government. This was a surprise on the House of Commons, and he hoped that the Committee would vindicate the conduct of the Government up to within half an hour ago, and carry this clause as it originally stood in the Bill.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the noble Lord ought to bear in mind that he had made no proposition to the House, and that the proposition of the Government received the support of the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten), whose opinion on the subject was as valuable as that of any other Member. The hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) said the insurance association of that county gave two-thirds as compensation; but there it was given in return for a premium of insurance which the farmers had paid. He maintained that it was a monstrous proposition that there should be paid out of the rates the same proportion as was given in return for premiums. He hoped the Committee would accept the proposition of the Government, as a reasonable settlement of a question of some difficulty.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had listened with attention to the debate, and thought the reasons advanced by the hon. and gallant Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) were sound. The hon. Member had said, and with this he (Mr.
 547
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am much interested in this question in common with the hon. Member for Birmingham and other hon. Members. For myself I have endeavoured to consider it with reference to the country generally, and not merely with reference to my own constituents. Some of them are more deeply involved in this great disaster and calamity than any other body of her Majesty's subjects, for they own or occupy at this moment a greater portion of grazing land of a peculiar character than probably exists elsewhere in England. They have thousands of acres—which not merely in the memory of man, but for countless generations, have never been mown—the richest and finest land in England. Giving credit to the Government from the beginning for determination to act in the manner most advantageous to the public interest, I have endeavoured as far as I could to support it in the course which it should recommend Parliament to adopt. But, notwithstanding this endeavour, I am perplexed by the position in which I am placed; because, within the last twenty-four hours, many Gentlemen on this side of the House have deigned to consult me what course they ought to adopt under circumstances of extreme difficulty, and especially with reference to the clause before us, and the principle involved in it. I have avoided all abstract consideration of the circumstances, and have said to them, "I think on the whole your best policy and duty is to support the Government under the difficult circumstances in their attempt to do their best." It is in some degree influenced by the general counsels which I have thus given that we find ourselves in the present position. But I am astonished at what I have
 548 harum-scarum 549
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am happy to have to thank the right hon. Gentleman for the moderation of his language during the recess, which was calculated to strengthen the hands of the Government, and I am glad that he is now prepared to give a general support to the Bill. I cannot help thinking, however, that the right hon. Gentleman has attached undue importance to the course now taken by the Government. The alteration, after all, is merely one of detail in the Bill. Having laid the Bill before the House, the Government could not refuse to agree to any modification of its clauses. Influenced by the opinion on both sides of the House, the Government have come to the conclusion that the object of the Bill will be better accomplished by proposing compensation to the extent of one-half rather than two-thirds. This is a matter on which the House has a right to express an opinion, and the Government would have been wrong to say they would insist upon their original proposal. If the object had been only to ascertain the value with a view to compensation it would have been fixed at a much lower rate, but the object is to induce owners to declare the existence of the disease with a view to the destruction of the animals infected. It was urged that this object could be effected by substituting one-half for two-thirds, and the Government accepted the alteration.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would not divide the House.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, there was reason to believe that the flesh of animals in the early stage of the disease was not unfit for human food. If, however, the present clause passed, the animal would have to be buried, flesh, skin, and all. Would it not be well now the compensation was reduced to a half, to leave some discretion to the local authority to decide whether the flesh might not be used for food?
 MR. BARING  said, that admitting such flesh to be fit for food, it would be unwise to allow it to be circulated. The course suggested would be the most likely means of disseminating the disease.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he had heard at Manchester of a case in which a farmer had buried a diseased beast with six feet of soil over it, but earth heaped up above the level of the ground. The dogs had subsequently scratched away the earth and devoured the carcass. He would propose an addition to the clause, enacting that the cattle should be buried with not less than six feet of earth below the natural surface of the ground.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, he concurred in the suggestion, and wished to know whether any penalty was attached to a non-performance of the provisions of the Act? The local authorities were to "take care" that certain things were done, but no penalties, so far as he had observed, were leviable upon the owners of cattle for breach of the provisions of the Act.
 MR. BARING  said, that the penalties were provided for by a separate clause.
 MR. HUNT  said, he doubted whether it would be possible in all cases to carry out the Amendment of the hon. Member for Birmingham. In certain soils it would be utterly impossible to bury the animals eight feet deep, which would be necessary if there was to be not less than six feet of earth between the animal and the surface. Not only was such a course impracticable, but it was also undesirable. Within twelve miles of his own neighbourhood the soil was of such a character that the inhabitants objected to the burying of the dead cattle, on the ground that the springs which supplied their wells would be rendered unserviceable. Even the words in the section, as they originally stood, he thought too strict. They ought to have some other and more suitable mode of disposing of the
 551
 MR. AYRTON  said, that carcases which could not be buried might be burnt, and that such a contingency should be met by a paragraph in the Bill to that effect.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was perfectly prepared to acknowledge the beauty of the theory, but had objections to its being put in practice. He had paid a visit to one of the London cowsheds, and was informed that the carcases of the dead animals had at first been burnt, but the result was so offensive to the neighbours that the proprietors were threatened with indictments for nuisances.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he thought the clause had better remain in its original form; for all knew that with a sufficient quantity of quicklime the carcases were speedily consumed. He apprehended that in the case alluded to by the hon. Member for Birmingham the dogs had got at the remains of the buried animals because no quicklime had been used.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not coincide with the summary process by which the hon. Member for Birmingham proposed to surmount the difficulty. In many places they could not dig six feet into the ground without penetrating far into the gravel, and thus affecting the purity of the springs, and the consequence of the burial of thirty, forty, or sixty beasts under such circumstances would be the poisoning of the whole of the people in the neighbourhood—a result which he believed would hardly be advocated by the hon. Member for Birmingham. Wherever the carcases could be buried at a sufficient depth without inconvenience people would be glad enough to do so, because hillocks were regarded with no favour. Where, however, the ground from its nature could not permit of so deep a burial they ought to insist upon having the ground heaped over the carcases, and then trust to the quicklime for preventing further mischief. He hoped that the hon. Member for Birmingham would not press his Amendment, because he believed that its adoption would lead to many inconveniences. To drag cattle any distance, and through other fields, for instance, would be tantamount to incurring great risk of spreading the infection.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he thought the object sought by the hon.
 552
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he was satisfied with this suggestion, and would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said. He hoped those words would compass the object. He might, however, state that in Cheshire many of the cows had been buried immediately outside the cowhouses, close to the villages, and the stench proceeding from the soil was so great that there were grave apprehensions it might breed a pestilence. He thought that some clause should be introduced forbidding the burial of the carcases in the vicinity of dwelling-houses.
 MR. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, he could bear personal testimony to the inconvenience and unpleasantness arising from the burial of some of these animals in the Isle of Wight.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he thought that, remembering the varying nature of the soil, the local authorities might be trusted as far as regarded digging the trenches sufficiently deep. In Cheshire the nature of the soil was clayey, and in the Isle of Wight chalky, and in order to avoid the inconveniences alluded to by hon. Gentlemen it would be better to leave the matter to the discretion of those whose duty it would be to see after these matters.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he would remind the House that the Bill provided for difficulties of that nature by allowing the local authorities to acquire suitable ground for burying the carcases.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he believed that the provision for enforcing the employment of sufficient quick-lime would be found to answer every purpose. It was the best disinfectant which could be used.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that any such provisions should be dealt with in discussing those clauses which related to the duties of the inspectors.
 MR. DENT  said, he wished to know, as many of the cattle owners were poor people, whether the expenses attending the burials would be borne by the local authorities.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that where animals were ordered to be slaughtered by the local authorities the expense of their burial would not be borne by the owner.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was necessary, if a diseased animal were slaughtered in a field, that the place where the animal was killed should be cleansed.
 CAPTAIN CARNEGIE  suggested that some penalty should be provided in the case of inspectors and others neglecting to disinfect themselves.
 MR. HUNT  said, the language of the clause required all hay, straw, litter, or other articles with which a diseased animal had been in contact to be burnt or destroyed. In some cases that would be impossible. An animal might die in a farmyard which was full of wet manure, and he thought they should require that manure to be disinfected.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that the clause already provided for such disinfection.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would suggest the insertion of some words of limitation after "burnt or destroyed," as, for example, the words "if necessary."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the last part of the Amendment should be postponed till they came to the duties of the inspectors, and the Committee had just given power to the local authorities to direct the mode in which officers employed by them should be disinfected. The first part would create serious inconveniences. The great difficulty hitherto had been to get competent persons as inspectors, and if they were not allowed to make more than four visits in a day the number must be so multiplied that they could not hope to get men fit for the duty.
 MR. BRIGHT : I have to suggest an alteration in accordance with the view I have taken of the Bill altogether. I am against the system of indiscriminate slaughter, and I believe the time will come when we shall look back on this Bill as not very wisely framed in this respect. I propose the second line shall run thus—
 "The local authority may cause to be slaughtered, with the consent of the owner, any animal that has been in the same shed," "Aylesbury, Feb. 15th, 1866. "Sir,—In reply to yours respecting the cattle plague at your farm at Pribor, I beg to inform you that there are 119 head of stock there, and
 555 "I am adopting the same treatment on other farms with the same success. In fact, I would now as soon attend cattle labouring under the plague as any other disease, feeling assured that I should not lose a greater percentage.—I have the honour to be, your obedient servant, "GEO. A. LEPPER. "P.S.—Altogether I have treated twenty-seven calls, and I find great benefit from repeating the medicine in half doses every twelve hours in severe cases." 556
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, does it require an Act of Parliament to produce the effect sought for by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Birmingham? I should fancy that any animal might be slaughtered with the consent of its owner. On that ground I think the Amendment of the hon. Member quite unnecessary. It also appears to me that such an Amendment would do away with the principle of compensation, a result, probably, the hon. Member would not regret. Now, I hope it will be understood that I uphold the principle of compensation, not merely as a matter of justice to those whose property is destroyed by order of the local authority, but also as a matter of public prudence, and for the general advantage of the country. I confess that unless I believed it to be necessary for the general advantage I should not support the principle of compensation, I admit that those who suffer under visitations like that we are endeavouring to mitigate ought to receive some assistance extra from that which they may acquire by their own exertions. But I must also admit that public subscriptions are the natural resource to appeal to under ordinary circumstances, and if all we had to consider were the losses of the farmers, it would be, I think, a legitimate question to discuss whether their losses should not be supplied by their own exertions and by private sympathy and charity. But a great principle is here involved. I believe that by admitting the principle of compensation you are indirectly preventing the spread of the calamity which we are now endeavouring to eradicate. It is, Sir, on that ground, I support the provisions of this Bill. The hon. Member for Birmingham seems to think this is a question of private justice and not one of public policy. But, looking at it, as I do, in the latter point of view, I shall support the principle of compensation. The Amendment of the hon. Member for Birmingham is quite unnecessary, inasmuch as it requires no legislation to allow an animal to be slaughtered with the consent of its proprietor.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that the right hon. Gentleman had totally misunderstood what he had said. By the clause as it stood, the local authorities could kill all these cattle without the consent of the owners.
 557
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, according to the present reasoning of the hon. Member for Birmingham, it was possible to cure diseased cattle, and that the time might come when they would repent of having framed an enactment requiring those animals to be slaughtered. Now, unless the cure on which the hon. Member so much relied proved effective before two months, being the period to which the operation of the Bill was limited, there was very little ground for supposing that they would repent of their legislation. But the hon. Member for Birmingham on a former occasion said he thought the chances of the recovery of diseased animals were so slight he did not think that they ought to grant the owners two-thirds of the value as compensation for their losses; and now the hon. Gentleman had come down to the House with a plan which he said he had discovered for the cure of the cattle plague.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, the noble Lord entirely misapprehended him. What he had said, in respect to the question of compensation to the owner for the loss of his cattle, had reference to the destruction of diseased beasts. What he was speaking of now had reference to cattle apparently healthy.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had never heard before of curing cattle that were healthy. He must return the hon. Member his sincere and hearty thanks for the speeches which he had made yesterday and that night against compensation to the owners of cattle ordered by the local authorities to be destroyed; because, in the county of Huntingdon, which he (Lord Robert Montagu) had the honour to represent, there was an uncomfortable number of farmers who unfortunately felt an admiration for the hon Gentleman, but who were not likely to indulge in such a sentiment any longer.
 MR. NEATE  said, he was prepared to carry the principle of compensation to a greater extent than probably anybody dared to propose in that House, and, therefore, it was not because he was afraid of compensation that he supported the Amend-
 558
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Amendment would completely neutralize the effect of the clause, which was framed to meet cases where the slaughter of animals which had been in contact with the disease was as essential for the prevention of disease as the slaughter of animals which had been actually attacked by the plague. Where the contiguity had not been so close as to give reasonable ground to apprehend the spread of infection, the slaughter of the animal might not be necessary, and, therefore, a discretion was given to the local authorities, which there was no reason to suppose would be unwisely exercised.
 MR. DENT  said, he was in favour of slaughtering all diseased animals, but he was against the indiscriminate slaughter of those which had been merely in contact with diseased cattle. They should be kept under proper surveillance, and slaughtered at the first indication of the disease. Cases had come under his notice where contact with the disease had taken place and the animals escaped, and where one animal out of a herd had been attacked with rinderpest while all the rest remained healthy. The Royal Agricultural Society, according to the resolutions which they passed, were against the indiscriminate slaughter of animals, merely because they happened to be in contact with diseased beasts. He was quite prepared to give compensation for animals slaughtered with the consent of the owners, and he did not understand the hon. Member for Birmingham to mean that the owners should not be paid.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that they would be in the same position as the owners of other slaughtered cattle.
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, that he could tell the hon. Member for Birmingham, who seemed so confident of the success of the treatment adopted by Mr. Worms, that that gentleman had under his care thirty cows at Datchet and left them, as he fancied, cured, but they had all since died.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he hoped the House would give due considera-
 559
 MR. HUNT  said, he was convinced that a great deal of harm had been already done by the remedies which had been put forward for the cattle plague—all sorts of specifics had been sent to the newspapers; and the consequence was that owners of cattle taken with the disease relied on these remedies. He believed the best remedy was the poleaxe. He had at one time some little hopes that vaccination might prove an effectual remedy; but after full inquiry he had satisfied himself that it was not to be relied on. He sincerely trusted Mr. Worms' prescription might prove successful—it consisted of a very strong vegetable stimulant, but the highest authorities in London distrusted it. ["Name!"] He should, perhaps, have said the highest official authorities—he meant the officers of the Privy Council, ["Oh, oh!"] Surely those who advised the Government might be supposed to be the highest authorities. Those authorities distrusted Mr. Worms' remedy; he had not satisfied professional people that his remedy was likely to prove effective. He thought it might be most
 560
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, that the district inspector of Bedfordshire had informed him on Tuesday last that he had thoroughly investigated the matter, and had convinced himself of the efficacy of Mr. Worms' remedy. After trying it on animals undoubtedly attacked by rinderpest he was astonished at the result. The animals presented every symptom of returning health; the eyes of the diseased animals had become quite clear, their coat sleek,
 561
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he fully agreed with the hon. Member for Northamptonshire that the public were likely to be led away by an accumulation of false remedies. He agreed that there should be some limit to the power of the local authority, and the suggestion of the hon. Member for Birmingham was, he thought, a fit and proper one. Even inspectors, it appeared, might be mistaken as to this disease, and for that reason great caution should be taken in the slaughter of healthy animals. The proposal of the hon. Member for Birmingham had been misunderstood. It was that healthy cattle should not be slaughtered without the consent of their owner, and if slaughtered with his consent, that he should he entitled to compensation. As it appeared to him that the proposal of the hon. Gentleman was reasonable, therefore he should vote for it, if the House divided upon the Question.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that in the county he represented (Ayrshire) there were 2,500 farmers, who were in great measure dependent upon their dairy cattle, and no district could be more opposed to an indiscriminate slaughter, inasmuch as the compensation offered was a trifle in comparison with the loss of carefully bred stock which could not be replaced for years. Moreover they would lose the current profit on it, and it was out of the dairy stock that they paid their rent. But these very tenant-farmers implored Parliament to pass such a measure as the Committee were now considering, as the only thing that could save their property from total destruction. He had in his pocket a copy of a petition signed by most of those farmers praying that whenever the disease broke out among a herd the whole of that herd should be slaughtered, and compensation be awarded only at the rate of three-fourths of the value of the animals destroyed. It would be perfectly safe to place such a power in the hands of the
 562
 MR. MARSH  also hoped that the clause would be permitted to pass as it stood. The disease had been completely stamped out in Australia by slaughtering inspected herds, whereas all attempts to effect cures had signally failed. Inoculation and vaccination had both been tried, but without success, the only result being that when the latter was tried, the tails of the animals had dropped off.
 MR. GREEN  said, he had for a long time protested against the slaughter of cattle infected with the disease, believing that some remedy would shortly be discovered that would stay its ravages; but he had now entirely changed his opinion, and was convinced that the only way to stay the cattle plague was—under proper authority, exercised with proper discretion—to destroy not only cattle actually diseased, but all those which had been in contact with them. He would give them some practical illustrations. He knew of a case where the disease having broken out among a number of cows in October, all the diseased cattle were slaughtered and buried, and all the sound beasts were slaughtered and sent to the market. The result was, although the herd were situated in the centre of a town, and another herd was kept in the neighbourhood, the disease was completely stamped out. In another instance, where cures had been attempted, twenty out of twenty-two cattle died of the plague. He recommended that the two remaining should be kept for the purpose of cure, if possible, and the consequence was, that they were the cause of infection to a neighbouring herd the whole of which died. These facts had convinced him that the only effectual remedy for the disease
 563
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  hoped the House would not consent, at a time when we had lost so many animals by the disease, to give a power which would lead to the ruthless slaughter of thousands of our remaining cattle. He was certain that the disease was not so fatal as was generally supposed, for he found from Returns he held in his hand that in the only two counties in North Wales which had been attacked, more than 50 per cent of the infected animals had recovered; and he understood that the case was the same in Scotland. If they had proper statistics of the disease, he thought it would he found that it was the short-horns that the disease attacked so fatally; whereas the number of deaths of the hardier breeds which were most common in Wales and Scotland, were fewer in proportion. It might be all very well to place the power in question in the hands of the local authorities of the central parts of England, but that was a very different thing to placing it in the hands of the local authorities in the remote parts of the kingdom, who were sure to act rashly in the matter. He should certainly vote for the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for Birmingham.
 MR. TOLLEMACHE  said, the county he represented(Cheshire)had suffered from the disease more than any other in the kingdom. After what had been said by the hon. Member for Birmingham and by the hon. Gentleman below him (Colonel Gilpin) on the subject of Mr. Worms' system of treatment, he felt bound to state what had been his experience of that treatment in Cheshire, where the frightful ravages of the disease had induced them to try every remedy that had been proposed. Immediately he saw Lord Leigh's letter in the newspapers, he sent directions to his bailiff to try Mr. Worms' system on his cattle; and he afterwards found that his brother had also tried it. So far as their experience had gone he was sorry to say it had entirely failed. It had produced no good result whatever, the mortality being as great where it had been tried as it was before. He sincerely hoped that Her Majesty's Government would maintain the clause in question in the shape in which it then stood, as nothing would please the farmers of Cheshire more than the slaughter of infected animals. He thought Parliament might, with propriety, leave a discretionary power of this kind in the hands of the local authorities.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to make one observation on the question of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, as to who where the local authorities? The local authorities were bodies who would be very much guided by their inspectors, who, as the hon. Member had himself stated, in many instances did not know the rinderpest when they saw it; and he was unwilling to leave a vast amount of property in the hands of such men, to be destroyed at their will. The matter was of great importance; and as there had been a strong expression of opinion among the Members of the House in favour of his Amendment, he felt it to be his duty to divide the Committee upon the question.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he proposed to add a proviso, excluding from compensation persons who had violated the Orders.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the clause had reference to retrospective compensation, to which many objections had been raised. He would propose that the clause should be negatived, in order that the House might have an opportunity of fully considering the subject on a future occasion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) had given notice of his intention to move the postponement of these two clauses. As the Government wished to facilitate discussion on the subject, he would not object to the course proposed to be taken by the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that some hon. Gentleman had pointed out the other day that the words "except by land"
 565
 MR. HUNT  said, that the Committee was well aware that the point involved in the Amendment of which he had given notice, was whether the restrictions upon the movement of cattle and the exceptions too should be statutory, or should be left to the discretion of the local authorities. His proposal upon the Notice paper would be to leave out all the words after "land," which, however, had been converted into "sea." He did not now propose to leave out all the words, but in line 35,"No cattle shall be moved, except by railway," &c, he proposed to leave out "except by railway;" and he further proposed to add two paragraphs, separately. The first was, "No cattle shall be moved on any railway before the 25th day of March, 1866."That would be absolute, and there would be no exception whatsoever. The second paragraph was—
 "No cattle shall be moved along any highway, or any canal, navigation, or river, except as this Act expressly authorizes."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman's proposition that no cattle be removed along any railway involved the! stoppage of every market for the sale of fat cattle throughout the United Kingdom. Now, it was desirable to keep certain markets open in large towns for the sale of fat cattle for immediate slaughter, subject to the licence of the local authorities, with the proviso that in towns with less than 40,000 inhabitants the licence of the magistrates of the county in which the borough was situate should be required as well as that of the local authority of the borough. If they shut up all those mar-
 566
 MR. HENLEY  said, he desired to give the reason why he preferred the direct plan of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) to the proposals of the Government. Either course would involve great inconvenience. The Government Bill said no licence should be given to carry upon railways if the cattle would have to pass through an infected place. How was it possible for any person granting a licence to know whether any portion of a 100 miles of railway passed through an infected place? He was driven to accept the plainer and simpler proposal of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, and to stop all traffic for a certain time, which would give opportunity for the disinfection of trucks; and the time occupied in passing the Bill would be sufficient notice to those interested, and would enable them to make such provision for the supply of the food markets as the circumstances of the case might require. Seeing that the Government, who drew the Bill with a full knowlege of all the inconvenience that must be occasioned by such a regulation, felt it necessary to introduce a provision to the effect that cattle should not pass through any infected district, he felt that the expediency of the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire could no longer be questioned. For the object in view it was much more efficacious, and upon a balance of inconveniences—these things, after all, being very much questions of degree—he believed his hon. Friend's proposal would prove least vexatious. He therefore should not shrink from giving it his hearty support.
 MR. AYRTON  wished to throw out for the consideration of the Government a middle course. The proposition of the hon. Member opposite might be adopted if a dispensing power were admitted, under which the Queen in Council would be at liberty to issue orders applicable to any special case that might present itself. ["No, no!"] It was one thing to give authority to the Queen in Council, and another to rely upon the discretion of the local authorities.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he could not disguise from himself the strong feeling of dissatisfaction with which the proposed enactment would be received in the large towns of the north of England, one of which he had the honour to represent. According to a letter which he had received from the Mayor of Newcastle, 2,000 head of cattle were sold in that town on last Tuesday, had since been slaughtered, and were now in
 568
 MR. LOWE : I will not detain the House above a minute. I think my right hon. Friend (Mr. Headlam) was rather unfortunate in the instance he selected, because I cannot conceive the great town of Newcastle dying of famine with the sea and the whole Continent open to it. But my right hon. Friend has not correctly stated the case before the House. The question is not as to the degree of laxity or stringency to be applied to the movement of cattle, but whether such regulations as Parliament thinks fit to be made shall be made by Parliament
 569 570
 CAPTAIN JERVIS  undertook to say, from a conversation held by him with the traffic manager of one of the principal railways, that there would be no such difficulty as suggested in conveying to the metropolis a supply of dead in place of live meat for the London market. In forty-eight hours from the time the order was given the whole of the appliances of that railway, which brought more meat to London than any other of the metropolitan railways, would be so regulated as to meet the requirements of the novel traffic; and that, not merely between the points from which the supply was drawn and the metropolis, but from town to town and from market to market.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that though nothing could be easier than to convey by railway any number of cattle to the various centres of population, they must be first brought to the railway, and in very many parts of the country there were no facilities whatever for killing cattle and then conveying them to the railway. During the course of this debate the House had been treated liberally by hon. Gentlemen with their own personal experiences. His right hon. Friend (Mr. Headlam) had been twitted for having given an imperfect instance when he stated that Newcastle would be deprived of its 2,000 head of cattle with the sea open. But he would give an instance within his own personal knowledge. His own borough (Merthyr Tydvil) was the centre of a district of
 571
 SIR JOHN SIMEON,  who was met with loud and continued cries for a Division, was understood to oppose the Amendment.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he could wish that this Amendment had been moved by some hon. Gentleman sitting behind the Treasury Bench, because he believed the point involved to be the touchstone of the Government Bill, and the keystone of its success. What he feared was this—that the Motion having been made by an hon. Gentleman opposite, it might assume in the division somewhat of a party character. ["No, no!"] He trusted that would not be so, because he and other hon. Gentlemen believed that we were in the midst of a great national calamity. Taking simply a national view of this great question, he firmly believed that if this Amendment was not carried the time they had spent upon the measure was so much time thrown away, and that the Bill which they would send forth as the result of their labours to-night would not be worth the paper upon which it was printed. Within the
 572
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, that by this clause it was provided that all cattle coming into this kingdom by sea should be slaughtered at the "ports at which it arrived. It seemed to be generally supposed that all the Irish cattle came to this country through Liverpool and Bristol; but while some 54,000 head arrived in Liverpool to be taken to London and other
 573
 COLONEL PACKE  said, that he was one of the Members who attended the meeting alluded to by the noble Lord (Lord Elcho), and it was quite true that he then stated that the railway companies would cheerfully sacrifice their trade in the transmission of live stock to London, and undertake to bring up any quantity of dead meat, and distribute it all over London wherever required. The fact was, that there were clauses in the Bill which prevented them from carrying live stock, as it was impossible to travel from Aberdeen, Holyhead, or Bristol to London without passing through infected districts without being liable to be stopped. What were they to do with all these trucks of cattle if they were stopped? The railway with which he was connected would not attempt to do it.
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, that although the people of Wolverhampton were partly supplied from the agricultural districts surrounding them, they drew their chief supplies from foreign countries through the ports of Liverpool and Hull; and the members of the Town Council had asserted that if the supply of food to that large mining population were interfered with they would not answer for the peace of the borough. He desired also to assert that no case was known of the disease having followed a line of railway. In his own county of Berkshire instances had occurred of the disease having followed the river most closely, and apparently quite neglected the line of railway.
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  said, he had received particulars that morning of the disease having been communicated to cattle in Inverness by the straw which had been taken from a railway truck.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  inquired whether dead meat was not packed in straw to be carried.
 MR. HUNT  then moved that in the 35th line, after the word "moved," to insert, "on any railway before the 25th day of March."
 MR. HUNT  then moved that after the words now added the following words be inserted:—
 "No cattle shall be carried along any highway or any canal navigation, or river, except in those cases expressly named in the Bill."
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that he and many other Members had only considered the Government Bill, and they were now asked to adopt the clauses proposed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire in his Bill. He thought that time should be given for the consideration of those clauses, and he therefore moved that the Chairman report Progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 MR. HUNT  said, that if the Committee agreed to the paragraphs it would not commit itself in regard to any exceptions.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  concurred in the Motion for reporting Progress. It was impossible to assent to the principle that the Committee were to adopt exceptions, without knowing what the exceptions were to be.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it was competent to decide whether there should be exceptions or not, and then what was to be the nature of them. He thought the proposal to report Progress a reasonable one at that advanced hour (a quarter past twelve.)
 MR. HUNT  asked whether the right hon. Baronet proposed to go on with the
 578
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that by the rules of the House the first Order to-morrow must be Supply.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that no notice of Motion had been given upon the Order for Supply tomorrow; therefore, there was nothing to prevent its being the first business of the day.
 MR. HUNT  feared that he should have no other opportunity of giving notice of the exceptions he intended to propose. He would, therefore, state that he intended to move the exceptions enumerated in his Cattle Plague Bill with the addition that male animals might be moved for breeding purposes. With regard to the practical suggestion made by the Member for Berkshire, there might also be a special exception as to moving young calves, not on foot, but in carts.
 LORD ELCHO  said, the Lord Advocate had called a meeting of Scotch Members for two o'clock to-morrow in the tea-room on the subject of the Cattle Plague. He should like to know, What was the particular question to be discussed?
 MR. COWPER  said, the designs for the new Courts of Justice and Offices would be selected by competition among architects. As the preparation of those designs would require very protracted and minute study in order to meet the special requirements of the courts and offices, competition would be restricted to a small number of architects, and the selection of the architects would be intrusted to a committee, which would include eminent members of the legal profession and Members of the Government.
 MR. LIDDELL  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether
 507 Vict.
 MR. AYRTON  wished to call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the fact that at the end of the twenty years the nation would still be indebted to the savings banks to its present amount, but he feared there would be no capital to represent the debt. He should like to know when the termin-
 581
 MR. AYRTON  feared the amount was to be made a charge on the Consolidated Fund. He wished, however, to point out the fact that the reduction of the National Debt could not be effected by means of annuities terminable at the end of twenty years, for people would not be induced to buy them unless they ran for forty or fifty years.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  put it to the Government whether it would not be
 583
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not proposed to interfere with the settlement to which the hon. Gentleman alluded.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the calculation had been made and the value had been fixed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  certainly could not at all complain that his hon. Friend, with the opinions he entertained, should object to the principle of the Bill; but, in considering the operation of the Bill, his hon. Friend entirely omitted to observe the effect of the former Bill. The practical effect was that one measure balanced the other. The object of the first Bill was to produce a true statement of the National Debt, by practically abolishing two funds precisely in the nature of the old Sinking Fund, which Parliament had long ago condemned. Its financial effect was to relieve the country from a very considerable annual charge, which was, of course, a set off, so far as it went, against the annual charge created by the present Bill. The Bill gave power to cancel £5,000,000 of perpetual annuities, and convert them into terminable annuities expiring in 1885; thereby creating, as his hon. Friend had said, a considerable additional annual charge in the interest of the National Debt until that year arrived. He held that it was a wise and provident proceeding in the actual circumstances of this country to use every fair and safe opportunity for the conversion of perpetual into terminable annuities, with a view to the reduction of the annual charge of the debt after a certain term of years. His hon. Friend seemed to think that the additional annual charge for the National Debt in the present instance was one of some magnitude, but it was not so; the whole amount of the increased charge occasioned by the two Bills would
 580
 MR. SCHREIBER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose, early in the present Session, any additional legislation with regard to the Sewage of large towns?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the advisability of converting perpetual into terminable annuities; but hoped that the settlement of 1863 would not be disturbed, and that the right hon. Gentleman would insert some words in the Bill stating that there was no intention of interfering with the settlement without the sanction of Parliament.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, in accordance with what I understand to be the opinion of the House, I will now proceed simply to lay the Bill for the Government of Jamaica upon the table of the House. I will make no statement with reference to the general subject, but merely state what are the con-tents of the Bill. The Bill will then be in the hands of Members, who will have the opportunity of perusing and considering it before they come to debate upon it. Now. Sir, it is in the knowledge of all those who have looked into the papers with reference to the late events in Jamaica, that the Jamaica Legislature in the first place passed an Act for the revision and re-construction of their own constitution; but upon receiving from me an intimation that I should be ready to submit the question to the judgment of the House, if it were desired that I should do so, the Governor of Jamaica communicated that to the Jamaica Legislature, and that Assembly readily assented to the substance of a new form of constitution being left entirely in the hands of the Crown; and it is stated by the Governor in his despatch that the understanding of the Legislature was, that if passed by the Crown, it should be carried out in its full and plain meaning, Now, the course we took then was this:—It is our opinion that it would not be right to call upon the House, in the present state of its knowledge with respect to the colony of Jamaica, and while the inquiry that has been ordered into the recent events that have occurred there is pending, finally to determine what
 582
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  asked, What course the Government intends to pursue in reference to the selection of the architectural designs for the new Courts of Law?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON),  in reply, said, that already an Order in Council was in force in Ireland with respect to the cattle plague, and a Bill had also been prepared on the subject, and would be submitted to the House as soon as practicable.
 MR. HUBBARD  asked for some further explanations of this measure. The title of the last Bill would exactly suit it, for it was really a Bill for the reduction of the National Debt. It permitted the Chancellor of the Exchequer to cancel £5,000,000 Three per Cent Stock, and to substitute for it an equal value in terminable annuities. The interest of the £5,000,000 was £150,000 per annum, while the annual payment required on terminable annuities would be £330,000. The difference would be that in the first year of the operation of the Act the country would have to pay £180,000 more than the previous year on the same security. The House had been engaged the whole evening in discussing the terrible calamity of the cattle plague, and it was undesirable at the present moment to go out of their way and make a forced march with the view of reducing the National Debt. He objected to make this reduction by means of terminable annuities. The fact was, that these securities were not negotiable at all, and were only held in the Government offices. They required a constant re-in-
 579
 MR. WALPOLE  said, it was quite clear that the Government of Jamaica had abdicated its functions and placed the government in the hands of the Crown, and it was consequently necessary to provide some other mode of government. Did the right hon. Gentlemen intend to specify in the Bill the kind of government that, by Order in Council, would be established in the colony. [Mr. CARDWELL: No!] Then he (Mr. Walpole) thought that the right hon. Gentleman would make some little mistake there. Parliament should consider the kind of Government they intended, by Order in Council, to establish in the colonies.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it was true that a learned gentleman who appeared on behalf of the relatives of some of the persons who perished in the  London London 508
 COLONEL FORDE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any general orders have been issued by the Irish Government to the Constabulary and Revenue authorities, requiring them to inspect all vessels arriving at any place on the Irish coast, with a view to enforcing the Orders in Council prohibiting the importation of cattle and sheep? The hon. and gallant Member said there were reports in the north of Ireland that cattle
 509
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not state what the specific instructions were, but instructions to the effect mentioned had been given. A short time ago he received a request from the Lord Lieutenant that a vigilant supervision should be exercised by the Customs authorities at the ports in England and especially in Scotland whence cattle might possibly be embarked for Ireland. The attention of the Irish Government had been closely directed to the subject, and no doubt they had given specific instructions to guard against the danger apprehended.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that no such proposal had ever been made to him, or, so far as he was aware, to any Member of the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if there existed already a fund in hand applicable to the same purpose as the proposed rate,
 510
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Government did not entertain any such intention; for this reason—in the course of last Session an Act was passed giving municipal and local authorities power to acquire land, and other facilities in respect of sewage, and a Commission was also appointed to inquire into the state of rivers in the United Kingdom including the effect on them of sewage of towns. Until some experience had been obtained of the operation of that Act, and until a Report had been received from the Commission, the Government did not think it expedient to propose any further legislation on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that it was the intention of the Government to propose the continuance of the Act in question.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is true that a counsel retained by the friends of some of the passengers lost in the  London
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, as it seemed to him impossible that the public would be contented as respected the safety of passengers with the answer of the right hon. Gentleman, he gave notice that on a future day he would call the attention of the House to the subject.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  declined at that late hour to enter into a discussion of the Bill, but would raise no objection to its introduction.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether in those counties in which a Rate for Compensation has already been raised by voluntary assessment, those who had paid such Rate would be relieved by the amount they have already paid from contributing to the Rate to be raised by the local authority?
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  expressed his entire concurrence in the Motion just made by the Secretary of State. Although a change in the constitution of Jamaica had been forced upon them by recent events, yet some such measure as that now proposed by Her Majesty's Government had for many years past been deemed necessary by all who were conversant with the condition of the colony. As far back as 1839 the late Mr. Charles Buller expressed that opinion in the then House of Commons. As it was intended to assimilate the constitution of Jamaica to that of Trinidad, he could only hope that the result of the change would be to render Jamaica as prosperous as that sister colony.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : I have no intention, Sir, of introducing a measure on that subject.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the employment of Police Constables in plain clothes at night in the suburban districts of the Metropolis, and to the serious results which have already occurred, and are likely to occur in consequence; and especially to the recent case at Sydenham, when Police Constable Maddock was severely wounded on the highway by a man named Joseph Ferguson, now confined in Maidstone Gaol, but who at the time of the assault believed that he was only defending himself and his property against the attacks of a robber?
 An hon. MEMBER  asked, Whether, considering the extreme urgency of the case, the Cattle Diseases Bill would be proceeded with to-morrow?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is not likely, I think, Sir, in any event, that the House will be at liberty to consider the Cattle Plague Bill to-morrow. I may take this opportunity of making the Motion, That the House at its rising do adjourn till twelve o'clock tomorrow. The cause of this is that an important matter of public business with respect to Ireland may have to be brought forward by my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, who will in a few minutes proceed to give notice of his Motion.
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, with regard to the Bill which is coming on for discussion very soon, whether it is intended to continue the experiments which
 599
 MR. BRIGHT : The same gentleman told me that at York forty-five animals had been cured. ["Order, order!"]
 COLONEL LESLIE  said, he rose to ask the Attorney General for Ireland, What arrangements are made to carry on the Government business in that Country without the presence of any Law Officer, the Law Adviser, contrary to precedent, being now in Parliament, as well as the Attorney and Solicitor General?
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to put a Question to the right hon Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department relative to the course of proceeding with the Government measure for the suppression of the cattle plague. He understood from the right hon. Baronet that the Government would be willing to consent to this arrangement—in fact, it was suggested by the right hon. Gentleman to his consideration—that the Government should proceed with their Cattle Diseases Bill, accepting the decision of the Committee on Thursday night with regard to the prevention of the movement of cattle by railway; that the question of the movement of cattle in other ways should be left for consideration in a future Bill; that the clauses discussed on Thursday night should terminate with the words added by the Committee; that the clauses relating to compulsory slaughter, compensation, and rating should be retained; and that the remaining clauses should be transferred to the future Bill; or, if the Government wished it, considered as part of the Bill he had himself brought in.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had told the hon. Member in reply to a note from him that he would readily concur in an arrangement that would facilitate the speedy passage of the Bill. In asking for leave to
 601
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to know whether there would be any objection to his Bill being committed  pro formâ
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that there would not be the least objection.
 MR. HUNT,  who had given notice of an Amendment, to insert after"1866"that
 "No cattle shall be moved along any highway, or any canal navigation, or river, except as in this Act expressly authorized," 602
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he heard the proposition to strike out the rest of the clause with great regret. He approved the Resolution come to with regard to the movement of cattle by railway, but it appeared to him that the measure would be ineffectual if the passage of cattle along highways was to be left unchecked. Local authorities would adopt diverse regulations, which would occasion great difficulty, more especially in the contiguous parts of adjoining counties, such as Leicester and Derby.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought his hon. and learned Friend did not apprehend quite distinctly the question at issue. The question was not, as he seemed to suppose, whether the subject of the movement of cattle on highways was to be abandoned; it was not even whether it was to be delayed. That was a question not yet discussed, and one which was almost certain, in the opinion of the best judges, to create a good deal of discussion. The question now under consideration was whether they should delay the operation of that which they had already fixed upon until they could also fix upon something else which might be desirable or not, but which the House had yet to decide whether it was or was not practicable. It did not, in his opinion, seem desirable to stop the operation of the clauses in question. The Bill, in any case, must be one of compromise, and he hoped the same disposition would be shown in all quarters as would be manifested by the Government in regard to the decision of the House, which the Government last night had most reluctantly yielded to.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he gathered that all the provisions relating to the movement of cattle on the highways were to be postponed. He thought it very important the House should know when the second Bill of the Government would be introduced, and whether it was likely to become the law of the land by the 1st of March next, when he understood the operation of the Orders in Council came to an end. What would be the condition of the question after the 1st of March, during the intervening time, if the second Bill proposed to be introduced did not become law by that time? He understood from the Home Secretary that all the clauses relating to compensation were to be proceeded with now, but that those which related to the removal
 603
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the noble Lord was mistaken in supposing that the Orders in Council would expire on the 1st March. They would certainly do so unless renewed, but the same power under the Act of Parliament which authorized the Council to make those Orders would enable it, if the necessity arose, to continue them for a longer time than was originally intended. He had that morning received a communication from the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), to the effect that he wished the House to affirm the principle as to the non-removal of cattle on highways, while at the same time he was desirous to postpone the consideration of the exceptions. He (Sir George Grey) objected to that on the ground that it was really difficult to determine how the principle would work without seeing the exceptions to it. His advice to the hon. Member was to commit his Bill  pro formâ,
 MR. HUNT  said, that he had been prepared to proceed with his Bill through every stage, before entering into the arrangement to which he had just come with the Government. He had all his exceptions ready, and had even stated to the House on the preceding night what those exceptions would be. He thought it would be convenient that hon. Members should see those exceptions in print, and ascertain if they were sufficiently numerous, or were put in proper words. With that view he had suggested that his Bill should be committed  pro formâ,
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he thought there should be a clause to the effect that every railway, canal, and other company engaged in carrying dead meat, should, as
 604
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to ask the Chairman if it were competent for the hon. Member on this clause to discuss this subject of cleansing the trucks.
 THE CHAIRMAN : We are now on the 21st clause, relating to the removal of cattle.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. Member would see that the subject to which he had called attention was dealt with in a subsequent clause.
 THE CHAIRMAN : Does the hon. Member for Northamptonshire wish to withdraw his Amendment?
 MR. HUNT : I propose to withdraw the second paragraph after "866."
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, supposing there were three or four counties adjoining each other in which, perhaps, the cattle plague might not have broken out, or in which it had subsided, and that the local authorities either had not made any regulations, or that those regulations had expired and not been renewed, he wanted to know whether, with respect to these three or four counties, there was to be no restriction and no legislation at all?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that there were general regulations applying to all counties, requiring that every owner of diseased cattle should give notice to the inspectors. A penalty was imposed by the present Orders on any person who removed a diseased animal, or any animal that had been in contact with it, from one place to another, without the sanction of
 605
 MR. LOCKE-KING  said, he wished to call attention to the inconvenience that must arise from at once stopping suddenly the supply of cattle by railway to the metropolis. If it were so stopped, where was the supply for the metropolis to come from. If time were given for preparation he had no doubt that a great number could be obtained, but the machinery was not ready, and the distress in London would be very great. How could the dead-meat markets supply the wants of three millions of people. He therefore suggested that the clause should come into operation at some more distant day than was named.
 MR. HUNT  said, that arrangements were now being made by railway companies to bring up dead meat. He believed that butchers and sales-masters in London would be enabled, by sending orders by telegraph, to get meat in sufficient time.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he understood the clause was to be withdrawn, but he desired to call the attention of the Government to the fact that the present dead-meat market was decidedly inadequate to meet the supply of dead meat at present required for the metropolis. He believed that great improvements were in contemplation, and that already great improvements had been made; but it was a matter which the Government, in his opinion, ought to take up with a view to see what could be done by means of loans for new markets or otherwise to remedy this great defect. This was the more imperative as some of the local authorities of London were Members of the Privy Council. A great number of persons living on the Surrey side of the river were engaged in the hide trade, and cutting off the supply of hides from them would have an effect similar to that which cutting off the cotton supply would have in Lancashire. He would suggest the propriety of establishing a market for sea-borne cattle on the south side of the Thames.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he agreed with the
 606
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the House would understand that in this clause the Committee were making no change in the existing arrangements, for it merely embodied the Orders in Council applicable to the metropolis. By existing regulations, coupled with the decision come to by the Committee on the preceding evening, no cattle could leave the London district alive, and none come by railway from other parts of the country into the metropolis. But London being the chief port for the importation of foreign cattle, such cattle could be brought to the London market, and it would be a serious consideration, when the Committee came to restrict the movement of cattle on the highway, how far that could be done in London consistently with the necessary supply of meat to the metropolis.
 MR. ARTHUR PEEL  said, he had no objection to the principle of the clause, but he wished to say a few words with reference to the mode of carrying it out. Every owner of a diseased animal was to give notice to the inspector or local authority, and by the 13th clause the local authority was to order every such animal to be destroyed. Now, the inspectors were not very numerous, and they might suppose the case of a farmer giving due notice, and the inspector, through being over-worked or from neglect, failing to come to inspect the animal until after it had died. It could not be said to have been slaughtered, but surely the farmer would be entitled to compensation. As, however, the clause stood, he would not be able to obtain it. It was a question whether he had not a legal remedy against the inspector for his neglect, and it was probable that if the farmer belonged to an association the latter also might have the same remedy. He wished to ask whether, in view of such cases, it would not be advisable to make compensation where notice had been given, and where the animal had died before it was inspected.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Member was correct in supposing that the owner of the animal would have a right of action against the inspector if he sustained loss from his wilful neglect. That
 607
 MR. MITFORD  said, that in his neighbourhood there were commons extending far and wide over the whole of the county. The farmers had the right of turning their cattle upon these commons, and it would be desirable in a subsequent clause to give them the means of ingress and egress to those places. Unless some further restrictions were, however, proposed, there would be a chance of an infected animal finding its way to these commons and propagating the disease through the whole of the county. He ventured to hope that the Home Secretary and his hon. Friend (Mr. Hunt), would see whether they could not prevent infected cattle finding their way to these commons.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, that as the Committee had decided to adopt the slaughter and compensation principle the country would have to carry it out. He objected to the Government scheme of raising the money with which to pay the compensation as being unjust and unsound in principle. If the country wanted a man's cow, the country ought to pay for it. When the country required private property, public buildings such as the National Gallery the country paid for it; and if the country wanted cattle from the stockholder the country ought to pay for it. By the Government proposition the assessment would fall the heaviest on those districts that had suffered the most, and those districts that had escaped the disease would escape altogether. Ireland as a breeding country would be benefited by it and ought to assist in the expense. Some counties, like that which he represented, were so thoroughly infected by the disease that he doubted whether the Act would be of much service to them. The cattle plague, however, was a consumer's as well as a producer's question, and he saw no reason why the consumer should not bear his share of the loss. It was urged that local rating would prevent fraud and carelessness, but he thought that might be attained without putting the whole of the
 608
 MR. BARROW  said, he thought the person who drew up the Bill must have presumed that by a local rate the county rate would be understood, whereas a county rate could be levied only under the provisions of an Act of Parliament specially referring thereto. The clause should, therefore, be amended so as to authorize the quarter sessions to levy a special county rate under the name of a cattle rate.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that before this Amendment was put he had an Amendment to propose to an earlier part of the clause. It was worthy of consideration whether they ought to raise a rate which was to be levied on the particular class that had been visited with this heavy misfortune. He had been much impressed by the able speech of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), because he thought that hon. Gentleman had given admirable reasons why such a rate should not be imposed. There was a very large number of stock-owners in the metropolis, and if the owners of dairies there had suffered by having had the infection introduced among their herds because we had an unrestrained trade in cattle for the benefit of the rest of the community, he could not understand why on that account those dairy-owners should be taxed for the benefit of the rest of the community. It seemed to him that there might rather be special reasons for
 609
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had referred to some remarks of his with reference to this subject, and as, in all probability through his own (Mr. Mill's) fault, the hon. and learned Member had not seized the point of his argument, he hoped he might be allowed, with the permission of the Committee, to repeat the substance of what he then said. The hon. and learned Member had laid down a principle which no one could dispute—namely, that taxation ought not to be partial. On that ground he urged that a particular class ought not to be taxed to defray the expense of compensation for the consequences of a calamity by which they had already suffered to so great an extent. But his (Mr. Stuart Mill's) argument was grounded expressly on this—that although they suffered more immediately, they would not ultimately suffer more than the rest of the community who were consumers of food. It followed that if they were now to tax the whole of the community in order to give a special indemnity to that class for what they suffered, they would, instead of taxing them, tax the rest of the community in order to relieve them. That was his argument, and nothing he had heard had tended to weaken it; and,
 610
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Westminster, showed a great difference between practical and political economical views. To throw the whole burden of the cattle plague upon the land might be in accordance with deep political economical views, but he could not see how the landowner could be ultimately benefited by that. He (Mr. B. Cochrane) considered it unjust that agriculturists should have to bear the whole of the burden, and it was only right and fair that a portion of the charge should be borne by the Consolidated Fund. He denied that by relieving the counties they would act with indiscretion or extravagance, or show any want of vigilance; and he ventured to say, though the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not seem to concur in his views, that the principle best to be adopted in events of national calamity was for the whole country to sympathize with the sufferers. This was a calamity which he ventured to predict, whatever it was now, would in the end become universal, and he thought it was only just to all interests that a portion of the burden should be borne by the Consolidated Fund. That was the spirit in which they had dealt with the distress in Ireland, and with other great public calamities. A sufficient stimulus to careful management on the part of the local authorities would be guaranteed by casting the rest of the charge upon them.
 MR. EVANS  said, it was not for him to object to the Motion, but he thought it only due to his constituents, the people of South Derbyshire, to say that they have not asked to have this charge thrown on the Consolidated Fund. They were willing to have it put on the county rate, and some of those with whom he had spoken did not object to a tax on cattle.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he apprehended that any proposal to put this charge on the Consolidated Fund would find an impediment in the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He concurred with the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) that it would be better to have the charge laid on the county rate than to set up the complicated system of a cattle tax. The effect of this cattle disease was prospective, and the fear of it discouraged farmers from the investment of money in any kind of stock. Now, clearly it was our interest not to discourage them still more. On the contrary, all of us were deeply interested in keeping up the breeding of stock. A man who now proposed to invest capital in a dairy farm would be regarded as mad. Already the very high price of milk in the metropolis, and in other large towns, had led to this result— that those who had milch cows were knocking all the calves on the head. These young animals were being destroyed by the thousand. This would have a considerable effect on the future supply of beef. He asked the House to consider where the county rate came from. It was a rate raised exclusively from real property. Trade profits or stock-in-trade did not pay it. It was contributed to by schedules "A" and "B," a fact which ought to satisfy hon. Gentlemen that in the country districts it would come out of the land. And in towns who paid it? The employers of labour. The manufacturers paid it on their own houses and the places in which they carried on their business; but they did not pay it on their trades. One great objection to the proposed tax was the machinery for its collection. It was proposed to collect it in the same manner as the tax on horses was collected—one was to pay on the greatest number of cattle kept within the year; but it was to be remembered that cattle were more like £5 notes than horses in that respect, so often did they change hands. An enormous proportion of the cattle of this country were reared on the hills of Scotland and the mountains of Wales, and afterwards bought up by dealers. Then
 612
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, that the cattle disease was a national calamity, but this clause dealt with it as if it were a local calamity. He was afraid it would not blow over in six weeks as some supposed, but its effects might be felt for years to come. It was perfectly just that if cattle were to be slaughtered for public objects, that the owners should be compensated. The question was, out of what fund should the compensation be paid? The proposal before the Committee was to pay it by taxing only those counties where the disease prevailed. But besides this taxation, there could be no doubt the people at large would have to bear the burden in the enhanced price of meat. Some hon. Gentlemen anticipated that the price of meat might rise to double its present price, and he would not disguise his apprehensions that it would rise to a price which would be only limited by the ability of the people to consume it; but if this clause were passed to compensate farmers for the slaughter of their cattle out of the county rates, a double burden will be imposed upon the people by being obliged also to pay for the means by which the price of meat will be raised. It was quite clear that in those parts of the country where no disease existed the farmers would be greatly benefited by the enhanced price of cattle. They would be placed in circumstances of prosperity in consequence of the adversity of their neighbours, while by this Bill they are to be exempted from the payment of any county rates or other taxes whatever. It appeared to him that the only just course to meet the calamity would be, not to confine taxation for compensation to the unfortunate counties where the disease existed, and thus tax the people twice over, but to lay a tax upon all the cattle in the kingdom. Such a plan would deal justly with all interests. Farmers would be compensated for such of their cattle as were slaughtered for public objects, and for the remainder would be able to obtain higher prices; while those farmers who
 613
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that without saying whether he should or should not vote for the Amendment of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr, Ayrton), he would suggest to the hon. Member for Forfarshire (Mr. Carnegie) that a different mode might be adopted of arriving at the result he wished—namely, the deciding what was the best mode of raising the fund for compensation. The hon. Member for Forfarshire proposed to leave out the words "local rate." Now, if the hon. Gentleman merely left out those words, he would surround the question with some degree of confusion. He would therefore ask the hon. Gentleman if he would object to alter the clause by inserting the words
 "Shall be defrayed, two-thirds thereof out of the local rate as defined by this Act, and the remaining one-third out of such monies as are provided by Parliament for that purpose," 614
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he was much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for having made the proposal, and would cordially accept the suggestion. He believed, however, that the Motion now before the House would necessarily take precedence of it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have on various occasions during these debates rcommended the spirit of mutual compromise. I may refer, as a proof that we are animated by this spirit, to the course taken by the Government in acquiescing in the vote of last night. The principle, however, affirmed in that Resolution has its limits, and the hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield (Sir William Jolliffe) has done me no more than justice in supposing that I should not be disposed to consent to a charge on the Consolidated Fund. To adopt a measure of that kind at a moment's notice is manifestly impossible, and I feel that so strongly that I think it is only fair that I should make this statement in the discharge of my public duty. It would be a thing so novel, so inexpedient, so unexpected, so entirely in the nature of a surprise after what has taken place in this House, that the rapid passage of these enactments would be thereby made entirely impossible. It is necessary to import into the consideration of this question motives of policy very broad and very deep in their character,
 615 616 617 618
 MR. LOWE : As to the battle, Sir, between town and country I may say  Graiâ pandetur ab urbe, quâ 619 620
 MR. J. STUART MILL : As the arguments of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Lowe) derive great weight from his knowledge, his character, and his talents, it seems desirable that anything which can be said in reply should be said as soon as possible, and while the impression of his arguments is still fresh. I think what is necessary may be said in a very few sentences. My right hon. Friend thinks it a complete answer to the arguments which I submitted to the notice of the House, to say that the object of the tax is not compensation, but to give a motive to
 621 de minimis non curat lex,
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he thought it his duty to state that, in his opinion, the Government proposition was, on the whole, the best. If there was time he would have guarded himself against ac-
 622
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the retrospective clause was left out of the Bill.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he felt so strongly the force of what had been said by the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to the burdens which ought to be borne by the immediate neighbours of owners of cattle in the infected districts, that if it were not complicating the question he should be disposed to advocate a special charge upon the highway board districts or Poor Law union districts immediately adjoining the localities where infection prevailed. The great objection to the plan, he feared, was that it would prove impracticable.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the questions principally raised in the course of the debate have been—first, whether compensation should come from national or local funds, and next, assuming that the compensation is to come out of local funds, whether it should be provided wholly by a county rate, or partly by a county rate and partly by a cattle plague rate. I must do the agricultural interest the justice to say
 623
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not accept the Amendment, because if any portion of the money were to be provided by Parliament it must clearly come out of the Consolidated Fund, and upon that question the House had just expressed its opinion very clearly.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he agreed with the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) that the question had been virtually decided. The fund, however, was erroneously called a compensation fund, since it was provided solely to enable the State to get possession of cattle which for the
 624
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he would, read a passage from a letter written by one of the deputation who had waited upon the Home Secretary. It was to the following effect:—
 "It was thought by many of us who lost our cattle, that aid would have been granted from the Consolidated Fund for all cattle destroyed in the public interest, or that loans would have been granted to sufferers. But the principle of compensation from local rates is something like compensating the left from the right hand pocket. We poor sufferers have first to find the money and then to distribute it among ourselves."
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he felt very strongly upon the point; but, under the circumstances, he would not put hon. Members to the trouble of dividing.
 MR. BARING  objected to the Amendment. To meet the views of the hon. Member for Nottinghamshire, he moved that at the end of the clause the following words be inserted:—
 "Every local authority shall have power, notwithstanding any limit in any Act of Parliament, to levy a local rate of the amount required for the purposes of this Act; but any rate or increase of rate levied under this section shall in all precepts for the levy thereof be described as a separate rate, or a separate item rate; and when collected from the individual ratepayers it shall be collected as a separate rate, or specified as a separate item of rate."
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, that in nearly all the counties in which the cattle plague had broken out subscriptions had been raised for the relief of the persons who had lost their cattle. He considered
 625 "In the case of counties which, previous to the passing of this Act, had entered into a voluntary assessment on account of the Cattle Plague, it shall be in the discretion of the local authority to consider such assessments as have been paid previous to the passing of the Act as part and portion of the cattle rate under this Act, and to make regulations accordingly."
 MR. BARING  said, he hoped the hon. Member would withdraw the Amendment, and allow him to propose a clause in which the particular question would be met. As the proposal stood it would compensate owners not only for cattle destroyed, but for cattle that had died. In reply to the question of an hon. Member as to the definition of local authorities for the purposes of the Act, municipal boroughs, having a separate quarter sessions, would be constituted a separate local authority, while all other boroughs would form part of the county in which they were situate.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, that in order to alleviate the difficulty suggested by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Baring), he would strike out the word "accordingly," and add to his Amendment the words "consistent with the purposes of this Act."
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that no Member of the Government had stated how the rate was to be collected. If it wa3 to be collected as a separate rate by overseers of the poor, it would throw great additional labour on unpaid officials.
 MR. BARING  said, he thought he could suggest an addition to the 33rd clause which would meet the difficulty mooted.
 MR. BARROW  said, he was afraid these additions would complicate the Act. He would suggest that such a matter as that under consideration be left to the discretion of the local anthorities. He was himself a contributor in two different districts, and desired no reduction under the provisions of the Act. He thought it would be better that the rate should be a special county rate rather than a local rate. It would then fall in the ordinary course of collection.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the rate would be collected in the ordinary way.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, as the Committee appeared to be against it, he would withdraw his Amendment, but
 626
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he thought some consideration should be had for the inhabitants of those counties where they had endeavoured to assess themselves. They ought to encourage the spirit of self-reliance among the farmers. If some such Amendment as was proposed were not passed, the Act would offer a premium to those who had done nothing to do the same under similar circumstances at some future time.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he concurred with the last speaker's observations. The provision came quite within the spirit of the Act.
 MAJOR WALKER  said, that at the present time the process of destroying animals and paying compensation for them was being carried out most successfully by voluntary arrangement, in several counties. If, however, a doubt were created in the minds of those so associated as to whether the money they had subscribed would be credited to them in respect of the compulsory assessment which it was proposed to make, an end would be immediately put to the most effectual machinery at present in work for the purpose of stamping out the disease. These funds were raised in anticipation of the passing of this Bill, and the gentlemen who advanced them ought to be repaid. It was obvious that, as some weeks would elapse before the Royal Assent could be given to the Bill, the event he had described as possible would be most disastrous in its results if it were permitted to occur.
 MR. BARING  said, he quite agreed with the hon. and gallant Member. If the hon. Member behind him (Mr. Waldegrave-Leslie would withdraw his Amendment, he would propose the one he had already referred to. He believed it would be found to meet the case more effectually.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  assented.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that where there was no balance the Amendment would have no effect.
 MR. HOWES  said, there were associations to compensate farmers for cattle which died as well as those which were slaughtered, and he thought both ought to be included in the clause.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, there would be an opportunity upon the Report
 628
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he feared that if voluntary subscriptions as well as voluntary rates were not recognized it would occasion much disappointment. In his county there was an association in which 7,000 cattle were entered. The disease broke out, and in one herd of seventy-three head of cattle, fifty-three died in three days. The farmers thereupon bought the whole herd and had them slaughtered on the spot. That was a very spirited thing on the part of the farmers, and was done for the public benefit. It was carrying out the object of the Bill, and he regretted that, as the clause now stood, those farmers would not participate in the benefit of the measure.
 MR. BARING  said, that where the case was one of rate the clause would apply, but not where the farmers had raised the money among themselves. In cases where counties had imposed a voluntary rate for the purpose of slaughtering cattle the parties would come in for the benefit of the Bill, but not in the case mentioned by his hon. and gallant Friend, where the farmers had contributed for the purpose of making up a loss. The clause would meet a certain number of cases, but not all.
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he understood that the clause would only apply to cases of slaughter, and not to those where the animals had died.
 MR. BARING  said, that was so.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose for the purpose of fulfilling an engagement which he had made with his hon. Friends the Members for Cheshire. He was, however, compelled to fulfil the engagement in a somewhat different manner to that in which it appeared on the Votes. He had given notice of his intention of moving, on the consideration of Clause 37, the following addition:—
 629 "But in any case where the local rate levied on the average of the said seven years for meeting the charges of this Act shall exceed sixpence in the pound, the Lords of the Treasury may, upon application from the Local Authority, extend the term to any term not exceeding fourteen years." "And the local authorities may mortgage or assign over the said rate for any term not exceeding fourteen years accordingly."
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to know whether, by the proposed Amendments, the local authorities would be authorized to borrow the money for seven years, and then, if they desired it, to apply to the Lords of the Treasury for the further extension of time.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as soon as the rate had exceeded the average of 6 d. 9d.
 MR. BARING  proposed to substitute for the clause as it stood the following;—
 "Every Local Authority shall report to the Privy Council the state of the Cattle Plague in their district, and give such other information with respect to the Cattle Plague, in such form and at such time as the Privy Council may require.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not object to the Amendment if the information which was required was to be exclusively confined to the action of the cattle plague, and was not to be the revival of an old battle. But the words were so general that, as far as he could understand them, it was difficult to see that they might not be employed for the purpose of obtaining agricultural statistics. Such a point ought not to be gained by a sidewind. If that were the object, it should be avowed, and then the pros and cons could be argued fairly. They wanted to know the simple
 630
 MR. BARING  said, the words of the clause were so limited as to apply only to the obtaining of information "with respect to the Cattle Plague." In that way the objection of the right hon. Member for Oxfordshire was obviated. He had no wish to obtain other information than that he had specified.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he thought it very important that they should have these agricultural statistics. They would form the basis of a system of insurance for stock. They insured their ships, their houses, and other property, but not their live stock. The reason for that, he believed, was because they had not the means of ascertaining the risk to live stock, owing to the want of proper statistics. He trusted that in this matter they would profit by their experience of the present calamity, and be led to adopt the practice of insuring cattle.
 MR. DENT  said, it was a great misfortune to the agricultural community that they had now such few reliable data on the subject. If agricultural statistics had been at hand the House would have been better able to deal with the question of the plague.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that the general practice had been to bury the cattle where they died, and it was hardly necessary to establish cemetries for them. The conveyance of the carcases along the high road to such places might be the means of spreading the infection.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought it could not be necessary always to purchase the land where the carcases were to be interred. It would be sufficient if they hired it for a time, say on a lease for seven years.
 MR. HUNT  said, that those who visited, as he had done, the yards of the London dairymen would find that it was impossible to bury the animals where they died. What, then, was to be done with the carcases? Some people objected to their
 631
 MR. BARING  said, he had no objection to insert the words "or hire" after "purchase." There were cases in which it was absolutely essential to acquire the use of land for this purpose.
 MR. BARING  said, that if the conveyance of cattle by railway was to be prohibited that clause might be expunged.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he thought, having regard to the carriage of diseased meat, that the clause should be retained. He proposed an addition to the clause providing that a penalty should be imposed upon railway companies and others neglecting to cleanse conveyances used for the removal of carcases.
 MR. BARING  said, that the Bill of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), which would shortly be considered, contained a provision that would effect what was required by the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought the railway companies had endeavoured to meet the wishes of the House in every possible way. The various companies had expressed their readiness at once to discontinue their traffic in live stock, and at some considerable inconvenience to take such steps as would enable them to convey dead meat to all parts of the country. Although not personally connected with railway companies, he was authorized to state that they were prepared to take efficient means for disinfecting their cattle trucks to the satisfaction of persons to be appointed by Government for the purpose of inspecting them. This it was their intention to do as soon as possible if left to themselves; and, perhaps, it would be sufficient now to enact that no truck which had been used for the conveyance of live cattle should again be used until it had been thoroughly cleansed and disinfected to the satisfaction of inspectors to be appointed by Government. It would savour of oppression to enact that they should not be used till after a given time.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought that the trucks should he registered by number.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he had no objection to the registration of the trucks. It was necessary to prevent the trucks from being used until they had been thoroughly cleansed and disinfected, as in all probability they would be used for the conveyance of dead meat. He understood that the Great Western Railway Company were now using cattle trucks for that purpose, the meat being hung up on bars, so as to insure a free circulation of air.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, he hoped that the railway companies would be compelled to cleanse the trucks immediately the cattle were removed from them. During the last winter he found it to be the practice on the London and North Western line to send empty cattle trucks in a filthy condition from all parts of England to Holyhead to bring away other cattle.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he had received that morning from the inspectors at Holyhead a list of fifty trucks which had been sent to different parts of England in a filthy condition, the floors being covered with cattle manure. Any person conversant with the cattle plague must know that there was the greatest danger of the disease being conveyed by the servants of the company in going from such trucks to a farm. Therefore, although he believed all railway directors to be "honourable men," and to be desirous of doing their duty, he hoped that the inspection of trucks would be placed in other hands.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he thought Government should undertake to see that the trucks were kept in a proper condition, as the inspectors appointed by local authorities might be kept at bay by powerful railway companies.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, it was most essential that some clause of the kind proposed should be inserted in the Bill, as it was well known that the disease had been conveyed into Inverness shire by means of the straw litter in a railway truck.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that while forbidding absolutely the carriage of cattle by railway, the Committee had entirely omitted to deal with carriage by canal.
 MR. FELLOWES  said, he thought the
 633 £5
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he thought that some hold should be kept over inspectors, as many instances of improper conduct on their part had come to his knowledge. In one case an inspector had bought diseased cattle which he had himself condemned from a farmer, and bad sent them up to the Metropolitan Market.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he hoped the Under Secretary would agree to this Amendment. Farmers would thus be protected from excess of zeal on the part of inspectors.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, that the amount of the fine was left permissive; and where a simple error of judgment had been committed probably no penalty whatever would be inflicted. But frequently there had been a gross neglect of duty. He had heard of a case in which a certificate for the removal of cattle had been given by an inspector for a glass of whiskey. He thought it well that the Bill should contain the power given by the Amendment.
 MR. HUNT  said, an inspector if he exceeded his duty would be liable to an action.
 MR. HUNT  said, that the Bill made no provision as to the application of penalties. He thought it very desirable that, as to a portion, they should be paid over to the fund out of which compensation was to come. Under the general law they would be paid into the Treasury. The informer, he thought, should receive half the penalty, and the other half should go to the fund applicable to compensation.
 MR. BARING  said, the fines would go to the county rate under the Act of 1848.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was satisfied with that assurance.
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to ask
 634
 MR. BARING  said, he would answer that question to-morrow. He had to propose the addition of a Proviso to the clause—
 "Any Railway Company or other body corporate may appear before any justice, sheriff, or sheriff substitute by any member of their board of management, or by any officer authorized in writing under the hand of any director or manager of the Company."
 MR. SHERRIFF  said, that there were now, in various parts of England, tramways which might convey cattle, unless expressly enjoined not to do so. He therefore proposed to add the word tramway after railway.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he doubted very much whether the difference between a railway and a tramway could be stated. He thought the introduction of the words would create a difficulty.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to urge that the recognizances of the parties themselves before the justices should be sufficient, and that they should not be called upon also to provide two sureties. He moved that the words "two sufficient sureties" should be omitted.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he was in favour of the adoption of the principle of retrospective compensation. All he desired was that those persons whose animals had been slaughtered by an arbitrary law should not be deprived of their claim for compensation. They had postponed the clause for retrospective compensation, and until they had made sure that such a clause would be adopted they should not pass an indemnity clause. This was an indemnity clause, and he understood that the Lord Chancellor in another place had stated that the Privy Council had no legal right to issue orders for the slaughter of cattle. If that were so the law would grant compensation to the sufferers. Under these circumstances, he thought that the House ought not lightly to pass an indemnity clause like the present. He hoped
 635 "That nothing herein contained shall prevent those persons whose cattle have been slaughtered by Orders of the Privy Council availing themselves of any remedy they might have under the existing law."
 MR. BARING  said, that the powers given to the Lords of the Council under the Act 11 & 12  Vict,
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, he thought that if any of those persons whose cattle had been slaughtered had any doubt as to the right of the authorities to order the slaughter of cattle, they would have tried the question legally before this time. The introduction of the words would nullify the clause.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that all he desired was that whatever right those persons now might have by law should not be taken away from them.
 MR. BARING  said, he had great objection to the insertion of the proposed words, as they would hold out an inducement for persons immediately to commence actions, notwithstanding the opinion of persons eminent in the legal profession that they had no such legal claim as that suggested.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he did not believe that the claims of persons, whose cattle had been slaughtered, would be vitiated by the non-insertion of the proposed words. He thought the claims of such persons should be admitted, and suggested the postponement of the clause.
 MR. HUNT  said, he hoped that the words would not be inserted. He thought that the Government was justified in going to the very edge of the law, if not in extending the law under the emergency. He was anxious, therefore, to confirm the Orders, and he thought it most desirable to do so, for the sake of the magistrates who had acted under them.
 MR. GOODSON  said, that on the bringing up of the Report some clause should be introduced to protect the local authorities from any malicious or vexatious proceedings.
 MR. NEATE  said, that those who suffered under the operation of the Orders in Council had the same right to receive compensation as those to whom Parliament was about to give it prospectively.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had no wish to put the Committee to the trouble of dividing on the Question and would withdraw his Amendment, if the Under Secretary for the Home Department would promise, on the part of the Government, that they would endeavour to pass such a compensation clause as they themselves had suggested. As he before said, he did not wish to prevent the confirmation of the Orders, but he wished to establish the principle of retrospective compensation.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Committee were in some difficulty in respect to this question. The clause which entitled the parties to compensation for the destruction of their cattle under the orders of the inspector, or other authority authorized by the Privy Council, and which had a retrospective effect, had been withdrawn, on the suggestion, he (Mr. Henley) believed, of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), on the ground that the fund out of which they were to be paid was not the proper fund, as stated in the clause. So far as he understood no definite promise had, however, been given to introduce another clause on the subject. He thought it the duty of the House to see that those parties whose cattle had been slaughtered for the public good by order of the inspectors should not be in a worse position than those whose cattle were to be slaughtered in future under the authority of this Bill. As no Cabinet Minister was present, it was extremely difficult for the Under Secretary of State (Mr. Baring) to give the necessary pledge that the case of these persons, who so willingly sacrificed their own interests in this matter, should be considered. The absence of any Member of the Cabinet was a strong reason for postponing the clause.
 MR. BARING  said, the reason why the Secretary for the Home Department was not present was that he was not well. He hoped the Committee would, under the circumstances, excuse any deficiency on his part, and agree to the postponement of the clause for a short time, when his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would, in all probability, be in his place.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, every
 637
 MR. BARING  said, that as the clause then stood every municipal borough was an authority in itself; but he now proposed to amend it by the insertion of words which would make the clause only constitute as a separate authority any borough "which is not assessed to the county rate of any county by the justices of such county."
 MR. BARING  said, he had another Amendment to propose, and in doing so he must apologize to the hon. Members for the City, The Bill had been changed in its character during its progress through Committee, and the Amendment which he was about to propose, as well as a corresponding Amendment in the schedule, had become necessary in consequence of the change which had been made in the Bill itself, which was now one simply for slaughtering and rating purposes. He assured his hon. Friends that nothing could be further from the intention of his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) than to do anything derogatory to the dignity and privileges of the City of London; but it had been represented to the Home Secretary by the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works that nothing could be more unfair to the whole metropolis than that the City, which was so large and wealthy a portion of it, should be entirely excepted from the operation of the clauses relating to the metropolis. At the same time, the Chairman assured the Government that nothing should be done by the Metropolitan Board, in which body the City of London was represented, to interfere with that dignity and those privileges. Indeed, it was manifest that the provisions of the Bill could be carried out only with the co-operation of the City police, The Amendment of which he had given notice would be in the last paragraph of the
 638 "The Metropolis shall include all Parishes and Places in which the Metropolitan Board of Works have Power to levy a Main Drainage Rate, with the exception of the City of London and the liberties thereof."
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that when his hon. Friend asked him to agree to the Amendment he asked too much of him; because, representing in the House the privileges of the City of London, he must feel that such a proposition ought not to have been brought forward without notice. Undoubtedly, the change which the omission of those words would introduce in the government of the metropolis was a most important one. Up to that moment the City of London had been charged with carrying out the Orders of Council in reference to the cattle plague. It had its own officers and its own machinery for that purpose. Why, then, should its functions in the matter be suddenly taken away? He saw in the Amendment the thin edge of the wedge, which two or three years ago the Secretary of State had attempted to drive home. He had had no communication with the City, and did not feel competent to argue this question in defence of their rights without notice. Therefore, all he could do was to enter his protest and that of the City against the Amendment.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he concurred in what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman the Member for the City of London. It was due to the corporation of London that some notice should have been
 639
 MR. AYRTON  said, he should have thought, after the handsome appeal of his hon. Friend the Under Secretary, that this Amendment would be adopted without observation. He must say he was surprised that his hon. and learned Friend opposite should get up, and, investing himself with all the mystic knowledge which he had acquired in the twenty-five years during which he had been standing counsel to the City of London, should say that such legal mysteries were involved in this measure that the House did not know what it was doing. He too, had studied the constitution of the City of London a good deal, in reference to the legislation of that House, and had thus acquired some knowledge of the imaginary difficulties floating in the mind of his hon. and learned Friend. Yet he ventured to say that there was not the smallest risk or danger of injuring anybody by accepting the clause now proposed. The principle of interference was established long since, with reference to the drainage and necessary improvements in the City. At the present moment the Metropolitan Board of Works was actually demolishing houses in the vicinity of the Mansion House, and they rightly had authority in the City, because the City, like the other metropolitan districts, was represented at the Board of Works. There was no reason why the City should claim exemption as a separate jurisdiction more than Marylebone or any other metropolitan parish. There would be an extraordinary speciality if the City were to be exempted from the operation of the clause. The metropolis at large was going to be taxed in consequence of
 640
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he rose to meet the arguments which had been brought forward to show that the City of London should be treated in a manner different to that observed with respect to the other local authorities specially described in the Bill. The object of the Bill was to provide means for the attempted suppression of that great scourge the cattle plague, and he apprehended that it was not in any way a measure to extend or to limit jurisdictions. He thought, therefore, that this was not the time to discuss whether the City of London ought to be included in the metropolis, or whether it ought to have its jurisdiction extended so as to include the whole metropolis. The question before the House was as to the best means of suppressing the cattle plague. The Bill reserved the rights of the Liberty of St. Alban's, the Liberty of the Isle of Ely, and the Stoke of Peterborough. Why, therefore, should not the rights of the City be reserved? The City of London had been carrying out the various Orders in Council most efficiently and satisfactorily. When this Bill was introduced, the various local authorities were described in it, and certainly the City could never have thought that almost at the last moment a Member of the Government would rise in his place and state that he thought it for the advantage of the metropolis that the Bill should be so altered as to deprive the City of London of the position which it had held for ages, and place it under the management of the Metropolitan Board of Works. What was still more marvellous was the proposal that the Board of Works should be assisted by means of the City police, who were paid by, and were under the control of, the City authorities. He thought that the City of London ought to be treated with fairness. It had at all times done its duty, but if the House should think its jurisdiction ought to be limited, that was a matter which ought to be introduced in a separate Bill, and not under the guise of a
 641
 MR. LOCKE  said, he considered his hon. Friend who spoke last had, although he was an Alderman of the City, spoken under a misapprehension as to the exact position of the City. His hon. Friend had alluded to two things —rating and the police. With regard to the rating of the City of London, that was done at present by the Metropolitan Board of Works for Metropolitan and City improvements. They levied the Main Drainage rate in the City, and in addition it was proposed to call on them to rate the City for the purposes of the cattle plague. No man delighted more in good eating or drinking than Aldermen, and they should be the last to find fault with any attempts to put down the cattle plague. [Mr. CRAWFORD: I am not an Alderman, nor do I delight in eating or drinking.] He did not know what the hon. Member did delight in, and he would not inquire. He was not an Alderman, but he (Mr. Crawford) represented the City, and if the City had submitted to be rated by the Metropolitan Board of Works for sewage and improvements he (Mr. Locke) was at a loss to know what objection the City could have on that occasion to the proposal before the Committee. Then with regard to the police. There could be no doubt that the City police were regulated by the corporation with the greatest propriety, and so were the Metropolitan police by Sir Richard
 642
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought the metropolitan Members laboured under some misapprehension as to the extent of the contributions which their constituents might be called upon to make on account of beasts dying through the cattle plague. Travelling by railway having been prohibited, it was very unlikely that cattle would come into the metropolis and die there; and if hon. Members would vote with him upon a question subsequently to be discussed, that animals landed from foreign countries should be slaughtered at the port of entry, the risk would be still further diminished. The question of metropolitan government was interesting to many hon. Members, and no doubt much attention would be given to it during the Session. But on the present occasion, when time was of great importance, when they all had made great personal sacrifices in withholding criticizms, both upon clauses in the Bill and upon the objections made to them, in order that progress might be made as rapidly as possible in the attainment of a great public object, he did deprecate the introduction into the debate of such questions as metropolitan government.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman having charge of the Bill to point out any clause in it securing the metropolis against double taxation, first at the hands of the various counties into which its population extended, and next at the hands of the Board of Works.
 MR. BARING : Not in the Bill. It is in the schedule.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he wished to ask what were the means which the Government proposed to adopt for the purpose of securing the holding of these sessions.
 MR. BARING  said, that he proposed to bring up a clause providing that sessions should be held on the Monday after the passing of the Act unless they are adjourned to some earlier day, in order that no time should be lost in taking the measures necessary for giving effect to the Act.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he hoped that a little facility would be given in order to enable courts of sessions to act with freedom and without being hampered by undue formalities.
 MR. ADDERLBY  said, he would suggest the postponement of Clause 7. He feared that in the end the action of these several committees might tend towards the reproduction of evils similar to those which were now complained of. It would be much better, he thought, to trust to the action of a central body.
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  said, he approved the clause as it stood, and hoped the Under Secretary would not allow himself to be persuaded to abandon it.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought the objections of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adderley) might be met by inserting a few words to secure uniformity of action among the committees. He proposed that the clause should be amended by the addition of the words—
 "But in the exercise of such powers all such committees shall act according to such uniform rules as may be laid down by such local authority."
 MR. BARING  said, he had no objection to the introduction of those words.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he must still insist on the necessity of making it clear by Act of Parliament how the different
 644
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the court of quarter sessions would meet and appoint its committees. In some counties it would be convenient to have but one committee, in others more. It would, therefore, be very objectionable to limit the clause in the way proposed. When more than one committee was appointed, it was to be supposed that they would act upon uniform rules. The acts of the committees would impose rates upon the counties, and one of the first things upon which they would agree was the rules for slaughter.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, that in the county which he represented (Suffolk) they had an association divided into as many subdivisions as there were unions in the county, and notwithstanding all their efforts it had been found, over and over again, that sometimes upon very minute points, and often upon most important matters—such as dealing with animals attacked or in danger—there were conflicting regulations. He was perfectly satisfied, therefore, that if there were a number of committees in each county there would be conflicting rules, conflicting principles, conflicting decisions, and conflicting action.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he thought that the objections of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Adderley) were addressed rather to the Government Bill as it was originally framed than as it stood at present. In the two counties with which he was most acquainted (Surrey and Lanarkshire), the appointment of several committees would be absolutely necessary, if the Act were to be carried into operation. The central authorities must delegate their powers to committees, to say whether wholesale slaughtering should be carried out or not.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he hoped the Government would adhere to the clause. There would be the greatest inconvenience felt if it were made incumbent on every farmer to send to the central authority before he could kill his beast. It would defeat the object of the Bill. There should be special committees in every part of each county, in order that the members of them might be referred to without any delay or expense.
 MR. HUNT  said, he believed they might rely on the good sense of the committees to confer with one another. But, in order to relieve his right hon. Friend (Mr. Adder-ley's) fears, they might add a proviso—that on the formation of two or more committees, such committees should act according to such uniform rules as shall be agreed on by those committees, or shall be laid down by such local authority.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that unless local committees were directly responsible to the central authority there would be no uniform system, and it would be impossible to enforce the provisions of the Bill.
 MR. BARING  said, that the subordination of the local committees was provided for by the words of the clause. The committees would certainly act according to the rules laid down by the local authority, which was empowered to delegate powers to them.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he wished the committees to be simply executive, and not legislative. If they had legislative powers there would be greater confusion under the Bill than there was under the Orders in Council.
 MR. BARING  then altered his Amendment as follows:—
 "In the case of the formation of two or more committees, such committees shall act according to the rules laid down for their guidance by such local authority."
 MR. HUNT : This puts a very great power into the hands of the inspector. He may go into any farmyard and order animals to be slaughtered, and the owner would only get in the shape of compensation half the value of the slaughtered animal. Then, what is the meaning of "cattle overseers," as distinguished from the "inspectors?"
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in some counties the inspectors were not persons of any veterinary knowledge at all. Indeed, he was told that many were policemen. Was it desirable that their fiat as to slaughtering should be final? If it were, the office should always be filled by properly qualified veterinary surgeons. How otherwise could their scientific judgment be relied on?
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that if an inspector's certificate were made conclusive evidence, he could not be proceeded against for fraud.
 MR. HUNT  said, that under the Orders in Council they were required to appoint an inspector, who should be a veterinary surgeon, "or other duly qualified person." He believed by that was intended a person acquainted, in a sufficient degree, with the veterinary art, and he objected on that ground in his county to the appointment of policemen to be inspectors. He did not think that they were within the spirit of the words relating to qualification. He was aware, however, that in many counties they had appointed policemen, and in one county he had heard of a shoemaker being appointed inspector. What special knowledge that person might have he did not know. [Mr. BARING: He deals in hides.] Yes, but I think he had better have stuck to his last. If, however, the fiat of the inspector was to be conclusive, some words on that subject would require to be introduced.
 MR. FLOYER  said, that in the county he represented (Dorsetshire), and also at Southampton, policemen had been appointed. He thought that no persons were better fitted for the post of cattle inspectors
 647 The Times
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he thought that the appointment of inspectors ought to be left entirely in the hands of the local committees. If the House laid down any rule enacting that no persons should be appointed inspectors unless they possessed certain qualifications, there might be districts in which no persons possessing those qualifications could be found. He did not think the clause now under discussion was sufficiently strong to prevent a man whose cattle had been slaughtered alleging that the cattle were sound. He might say, "My cattle never had the disease, and you had no right under the statute to slaughter them," and might bring an action for damages against the local authorities.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, that the local inspectors in his county (Hants) were police. They had no special veterinary knowledge, but were very efficient in all other respects. If a herd were declared to be infected, were they to send for the in-
 648
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he thought that the inspector ought to be a person who knew something about the disease. The hon. Member for Winchester (Mr. Bonham-Carter) proposed that the duties of inspector should be jointly discharged by a police officer and a respectable tenant-farmer. He did not see what advantage would he gained by carrying the hon. Gentleman's proposal into effect; for a man might be a very respectable tenant-farmer, and know nothing whatever about the cattle plague.
 MR. BARING  said, that there were several questions now before the House. The first was whether the words "cattle overseers" ought to be omitted. He agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Hunt) that these words ought to be left out, for in the first place they had no definite meaning and might apply to a ploughboy or other ignorant person; and in the second they were used with a special meaning in the Bill of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), which would come before the House for discussion. He thought that it would be very imprudent to define in the Bill from what class of persons the inspectors were to be drawn, or what qualifications they should possess, the circumstances of the different counties being so varied. Their appointment ought to be left entirely in the hands of the local authorities. If that were done, he believed that the local authorities would appoint proper persons to act as inspectors. For his part he believed that in many districts chief constables and superintendents of police would render very efficient services.
 MR. HUNT  said, he strongly objected to the appointment of persons as inspectors without regard to their veterinary knowledge. It was not right that they should be intrusted with the power to order beasts to be killed, because they had not sufficient knowledge to justify the exercise of such power. But they had greater power. Their evidence in a court of law would be sufficient under the Orders in Council to cause a person to be punished for removing cattle declared by the inspector to be diseased. He could not see how as inspectors they were more than policemen. What were they to do as inspectors which they could not do as policemen, except that which they ought not to do?—namely, direct
 649 bonâ fide
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the power was great. Notwithstanding, it was proposed to intrust comparatively ignorant persons with it. The duties of the local authorities also were heavy, and he thought their inspectors should be men upon whom they could depend. He could not believe they would feel safe in trusting to the word of a shoemaker. Persons having not the slightest medical knowledge might be appointed inspectors. Common constables were to have this power, that the moment a fiat went out that cattle were diseased they must be killed. It was next provided that the local authorities should set to work and cause the field in which the beast had been to be disinfected. Now it was not a very easy process to disinfect a field. Since the proviso had been introduced without notice he thought the least the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary could do would be not to press the matter, but introduce it to the notice of the House when the Report was brought up.
 MR. BARING  said, he was aware that notice should have been given if possible of his intention to introduce the proviso. He also felt the force of many of the objections, but time pressed, and he trusted the House would decide upon the case at once. He felt the necessity of the provision he had suggested, because without it any of the local authorities acting on the Bill would be liable to actions for so doing.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to have some definition of the words that persons committing "such offence should be liable to a penalty not exceeding £20." He had put the question to the Home Secretary, whether the £20 applied to each head of cattle or to each transac-
 650
 MR. BARING  said, the power contained in the clause was a modified power. It did not authorize the inspector to enter at any time, but only when he had reasonable ground for suspecting that cattle infected by the plague were to be found. With respect to the question of the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel North), the point in question had not been decided by the Court of Queen's Bench at the time referred to. It was settled by the Bill.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he had seen so much during the last four months of the manner in which the cattle plague was carried about by the inspectors, that he thought some check ought to be put upon their power of entering cattle sheds at all times. The inspectors went into sheds among cattle which were infected, and then, without changing their clothes, they went among cattle which were perfectly healthy, and he thought that if that were to continue some parts of the country that had hitherto escaped the plague would become liable to it. A cattle owner was liable to a penalty if he did not send notice that his cattle were diseased, and this was a sufficient protection. He therefore moved, as an Amendment to the clause, that after the words "for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act," in the seventh line, the following words should be added:—
 "And before entering, he shall be bound to produce an affidavit, sworn before a justice of the peace, to the affect that he has such reasonable grounds for supposing that cattle affected by the cattle plague are there to be found."
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, he should support the Amendment. He believed it was dangerous to allow the inspectors to go about among all the herds in the country. A man who owned a valuable herd would rather give an inspector £5, £10, or even £20 than allow him to enter his premises and spread the infection. Cases had been known where inspectors had forced their way into uninfected cattle sheds to get the fee.
 MR. ST. AUBYN  said, he should support the clause as it stood.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he agreed that some check ought to be put upon the power of inspectors. In many districts persona had been appointed who were ut-
 651
 MR. ACLAND  said, he thought the best course would be to require the inspector to act on the information of one or more neighbouring cattle owners or other credible persons. The inspectors would then be compelled to show their authority before going into any cattle shed. In his part of the country there was no human being so detested and dreaded as the cattle inspector.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was sorry to see that the zeal which had been shown at first in discussing the subject of the cattle plague had somewhat fallen off. He thought they ought to sustain the tone they had at first adopted, and support the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary in these measures, notwithstanding their stringency. There could be no fair objection to the inspectors having power to visit the cattle sheds. It was only carrying out the same principle which was observed in the case of inspectors of factories, and inspectors of mines. Why did they not strip the inspector, wash him, and fumigate him at once, instead of only making him swear an affidavit? He ridiculed the idea that inspectors would carry the plague about with them, and thought they ought to be fettered with no obstructions in the performance of their duties.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was astonished to find the hon. Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets disagreeing with the principle that a man's house was his castle. [Mr, AYRTON: Cattle shed.] He thought that the farmer ought not to have his premises invaded unnecessarily, and hoped that the hon. Member (Mr. Walde-grave-Leslie) would press his Amendment.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that the object would be obtained by requiring the inspector, if he should be requested to do so, to state in writing the grounds on which he entered the premises.
 MR. BARING  said, he would accept the Amendment suggested by the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley).
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said,
 652
 MR. HENLEY  said, that first of all every constable was empowered to take action under this Bill, and now they were to be required to record their reasons for acting in writing. That was getting on, he thought. They had to provide as far as possible against the spread of the disease, and they must remember that on the first appearance of the plague in a district there were always a good many gaping people— constables sometimes, as well as others— who went to the farms where the disease existed to have what they called a "look," thereby spreading the disease. It was always dangerous to encourage people to visit those spots at their own will and pleasure, and they should remember that the grounds upon which policemen acted were not always the soundest. By fining a man £20 if he did not announce the appearance of the disease, and by offering him compensation if he did, they were holding out the two strongest inducements by which people were influenced—hope and fear. He thought that the clause was, on the whole, likely to be more productive of mischief than of good.
 MR. GOODSON  said, he thought that all objections would be met by providing that the officers should act by direction of the local authorities.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he thought that if the inspectors recorded in writing their reasons for acting, it would soon be seen whether they exceeded their powers or not. If, however, inspectors were only to act in individual cases upon the authority of the local authorities, they would frequently have to lose much valuable and important time in gaining access to the authorities.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that by a clause in the Bill, the disinfection of inspectors was already provided for. As it was the interest of local authorities to prevent the spreading of infection, they would take precautions against the inspectors going about to spread the infection.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would suggest the omission of the words "any constable or police officer."
 MR. BARING  said, he would agree to the suggestion.
 MR. HUNT  said, that in many instances police officers were appointed inspectors, and as they were always bound to appear in uniform, their disinfection would not be
 653
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he approved the omission of the words "any constable or police officer." The objection of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) was a sound one. It was advisable that the inspection should be limited to officers properly qualified. It was, however, necessary to retain the clause, because as the local authorities were empowered to slay suspected animals, they must have means of arriving at a judgment upon the matter. He thought the Amendment proposed by the hon, Member (Mr. Whalley) would act as a check on inspectors.
 MR. WHALLEY  then moved the addition of the following words at the end of the clause:—
 "Provided always that such inspector shall, if required, state in writing the grounds upon which he has entered such premises for the purpose aforesaid."
 MR. BARING  said, that would lead to the spread of infection.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the clause was intended to indemnify all persons who had acted under the Orders of the Privy Council, and, indeed, to indemnify the Privy Council themselves for the Orders they had issued; and the fact that it was proposed at all was a proof that the Government had a doubt as to the legality of their proceedings. The Lord Chancellor was reported to have said the other day that although the Government had acted under his advice in promulgating these Orders of the Privy Council, yet it might be doubtful whether they came under the terms of the Act, or, in other words, whether they were legal; and if they were not
 654
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not see the necessity of raising that question then, because when the 18th clause was left out it was understood that they were to deal with it subsequently. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had suggested to the Secretary of State that the clause should be withdrawn, on the ground that it ought to be considered separately, and that it was doubtful whether the retrospective compensation ought to come out of the same fund as that which was to be provided by the Bill; and it had been withdrawn in accordance with that suggestion. It was understood when Clause 18 was struck out that something of a similar kind was to be proposed subsequently, not in this Bill, but in another shape. He hoped, therefore, no doubt existed that the Government were pledged to the retrospective principle.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was very sorry that his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary had been obliged, through over exertion and the pressure of public business, to quit the House, and also that he had had no opportunity of consulting with his right hon. Friend as to his exact meaning in respect to that dropped clause relating to retrospective compensation. But having himself been present when it was dropped, he could say that it was dropped, not because the case of these parties ought not to be considered, but because relating to a back claim, whatever it was, it was in no way urgent, and need not interfere with the other parts of the Bill that required to be pushed forward. His right hon. Friend, he was sure, was now quite as much disposed to
 655
 MR. HENLEY  said, the explanation of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was quite satisfactory if the right hon. Gentleman meant to say that those persons who had willingly obeyed what they thought to be the law should not be put in a worse position than those whose cattle might be slaughtered hereafter.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not say, nor would he then pretend to form an opinion on the subject, that the parties who preferred retrospective claims should be dealt with precisely like those who had to be dealt with prospectively. He thought the former case was different in some respects from the latter, but he had no doubt his right hon Friend would be as ready as he was at first to consider it upon its merits.
 MR. HENLEY :  Nullum simile est idem.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought that if the clause passed the persons assuring should have returned to them a proportionate part of the premiums paid to the insurance associations, since they would only receive a small sum from the associations.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, the effect of the clause would be to do justice between the parties. It would be unfair to compel the insurance companies to pay the whole sum assured for animals slaughtered under the Act, but they could scarcely
 656
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought the clause would operate unjustly to the assurer, inasmuch as he would have paid the premium to the association, as well as having to contribute towards the county rate, while his more unthrifty neighbour would get the same amount of compensation having only contributed to the county rate.
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought the matter required further consideration.
 MR. BARING  said, he hoped the Committee would pass the clause, as it would benefit the insurance associations without throwing any additional burden upon the county rate. Unless the clause were carried the Act would impose great hardship upon the insurance associations, since the sound cattle slaughtered under the provisions of the Act might not have died from the effects of the disease, and therefore the Act, without the clause, would simply deprive the associations of so much money. The effect of the clause had been quite correctly stated by the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir FitzRoy Kelly). If it were not inserted in the Bill the owner of an animal ordered to be slaughtered would be entitled to receive three-fourths of the value of the animal, and the same amount from the insurance company, so that he would receive the full value of the animal and one-half more. The county rate would, under the clause proposed, be bound to pay compensation, and then the insurance company would pay any difference there might be between the amount of the compensation and the sum for which the animal was insured.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the clause merely enabled the owner to deduct from the compensation what he received from the insurance office. The principle of the insurance company was only to pay the salvage.
 MR. BARING  proposed a clause that the Act should continue in force until the first day of June, 1867, and until the end of the then Session of Parliament, and no longer.
 MR. HUNT  reminded the Government that power was to be taken to discontinue the Bill supposing a remedy were found for the cattle plague. He did not understand that any clause to that effect had been introduced.
 MR. BARING  said, a clause would be brought up to that effect on the Report.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate whether he intended to introduce into the Bill those clauses which he suggested giving permissive powers to the magistrates in boroughs to unite with counties, or to place themselves under the counties in cases where they should think it desirable for the purposes of the Act.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, it would be very desirable that such a power should be introduced into the Bill; but considering the stage at which the Bill had now arrived that could only be done in another place.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the Bill would come on as an Order of the Day to-morrow after the notice with respect to the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he wished to inquire whether it was the intention of the Government to pass the Bill to-morrow?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped so. It was intended to move the third reading after the Report bad been received.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he had a suggestion to make with reference to the Returns which professed to show the progress of the cattle plague. The Returns for the last fortnight were valueless, in consequence of many of the inspectors not having sent in their Returns. That, of course, tended to perplex the public mind, as the Returns gave no information of any kind, and tended rather to confuse the minds of those who consulted them. He begged leave to suggest that it would be better to issue the Returns once a fortnight. At all events, some method should be devised so that the Returns would correctly represent the progress of the disease in the various counties in England and Scotland.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he intends that the Jamaica Government Bill shall be the first business on Monday?
 MR. CARDWELL : I am afraid, Sir, I cannot give a positive answer to that Question. The only answer I can give at present is that I shall not be prepared to bring it on except at an early hour of the evening.
 MR. EDWARD CRAUFURD  said, he would beg to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether he is prepared to extend to Scotland the beneficial principles of the Union Chargeability Act passed last Session for England by introducing a measure to charge the relief of the poor in each county in Scotland on a common fund to be raised over the whole county?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON),  in reply, said, that he was not aware that any charge had been made, or could be made, as
 598
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he did not know anything of the particular case to which the noble Lord had referred, and, consequently, he could give no information in regard to it. With respect, however, to the general question as to the employment of policemen in plain clothes in the metropolis, he might state that the practice was adopted in 1862 in consequence of the number of garrotte robberies which had taken place in London, and it has also been followed in certain districts where numerous burglaries had been committed. It was ascertained that those robberies were committed during the absence of the ordinary police constables in uniform, who were watched on their rounds till they were away from the spot. It was necessary, in order to put a stop to such robberies, to employ constables in plain clothes. The report of a recent trial showed that a certain class of thieves very closely watched the movements of the police.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I rise, with deep regret, and only under the strongest sense of what the Government believe to be an absolute necessity, to give notice that to-morrow, at Twelve o'clock, I shall move for leave to bring in a Bill to suspend for a limited time the Habeas Corpus Act in Ireland.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : These experiments were not made by the Government, but by the Commission, and I do not think that any important result has followed from them. They only show how completely all attempts to cure the disease have hitherto failed. The clauses in the Bill relating to the slaughter of cattle must, of course, be carried into effect, and all I can say is that it will be the duty of every one to obey the law.
 MR. BRIGHT : I owe an apology to the Irish Members for stepping in to make an observation to the House on this question. My strong interest in the affairs of their country, ever since I came into Parliament, will be my sufficient excuse. The Secretary of State, on the part of the Go-
 686 687 688 689 690 "To grind in brazen fetters, under task, With their Heaven-gifted strength—" 691 692 693 694 695
 MR. BRIGHT : I rise to order. I have only to say that in the last two sentences of the hon. Gentleman there is not one word of mine. I presume that the hon. Member is delivering a speech that he prepared for the other occasion.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that some of the Scottish boroughs were very small; he knew one instance where the population of a borough consisted of only 400 persons. The Bill, as it now stood, made the magistrates of boroughs the local authorities by whom the slaughter of diseased cattle in towns was to be ordered. He feared that in some of the small Scottish boroughs the magistrates would, from a fear of entailing expense on their fellow townsmen, shrink from ordering the slaughter of cattle. He therefore moved, after Clause 5, to insert the following clause:—
 "The powers of each Cattle Plague Board shall extend over the whole of the county for which it is appointed, and over all burghs situated therein, excepting cities and burghs which have the right to elect Members to Parliament, and whereof the population within the Parliamentary boundaries of any such burgh exceeds ten thousand."
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, that when the county which he represented (Wigtonshire) was threatened by the cattle plague the magistrates of a small burgh on the borders of the county refused to prevent a cattle bazaar being held in their town, although frequently remonstrated with on the subject. He strongly urged the House to insert the proposed clause in the Bill.
 MR. M'LAREN  protested against the adoption of a clause which would disfranchise nearly sixty Scottish boroughs. He had had opportunities of knowing, from the meetings of the Convention of the Royal Burghs held in Edinburgh every year, that there was no set of men more intelligent or more anxious to do their duties than the municipal authorities. Why, then,
 728
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  said, that the addition to the clause was not proposed in order to disfranchise the boroughs in any sense, but in order to secure harmonious action throughout the country. He was willing that the magistrates should be represented in the county boards, and should there unite in laying a common plan of action. But, unless some such security was taken, all the evils of conflicting action and jurisdiction would be revived.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he did not see any reason for drawing such a distinction between English and Scotch boroughs as would be drawn by the clause now under discussion. He believed the magistrates of the small Scotch boroughs were quite competent to discharge the duties imposed on them by the Bill.
 MR. CRAWFORD  proposed to add the following proviso:—
 "Provided, that within the City of London arid the liberties thereof the Court of the Lord Mayor and Aldermen shall, for all the purposes of this Act, except that of making a rate, be deemed the local authority, but for the purpose of making a rate for the purposes of this Act the Metropolitan Board of Works shall be the local authority."
 MR. E. CRAUFURD  said, the first part of the clause prohibiting the removal of cattle by sea would injuriously affect the agricultural interest of the various islands around Scotland. The cattle of Argyllshire were not fat cattle fit for the market, but were young lean beasts sent down to be fattened. He therefore proposed to add such words as would permit sound cattle to be moved by sea from one part of a county or district to another part of the same county or district with the permission of the local authorities.
 MR. BARING  said, he could not agree to the insertion of the words proposed by the hon. and learned Member, as they would admit of a much wider construction than the hon. Member supposed them capable of. For instance, if the words were inserted as proposed, cattle might be removed from the Isle of Wight to Portsmouth.
 MR. HUNT  remarked that the proviso to be introduced into the Bill permitting lean cattle to be removed at certain periods would meet the proposal of the hon. and learned Gentleman.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he had been reminded by a letter which he had received from the country that one thing had been omitted from the Bill. It had been resolved that the railway companies should not carry cattle in their trucks; but it had not been declared illegal to carry anything else in them. He found from the information his correspondent had supplied him with that the railway authorities were carrying wood, bricks, tiles, and other things in their cattle trucks. He thought
 730
 THE O'DONOGHUE  begged to thank his hon. Friend the Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) for the speech which he had delivered to-day—a speech which, he was certain, if acted upon would be a serious blow to Fenianism, and which he was happy to think justified the efforts he had frequently made to induce his countrymen not to despair, and to convince them that they might yet expect justice from Parliament and the English people. The line of argument taken by the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) was no doubt very satisfactory to himself, for it simply consisted in saying what his opinion was, and that he did not care who differed from him. The hon. and learned Gentleman's reasoning did not, however, appear to him to be very forcible or logical. He simply asserted that there were no causes of disaffection; but when he found these who ought to know something about the state of Ireland—the people of Ireland—saying that there were causes of disaffection, he attached no importance whatever to the hare assertion of the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield. In anything he (The O'Donoghue) might say, he wished it to be understood that he
 712 713 714 715 "I think it very important to observe, for the information of the public, that every single individual connected with  The Irish People 716
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the House in general, and my Colleagues with myself in particular, have been anxious to hear on this critical question the sentiments of representatives from Ireland. But as I did not perceive that any one of those Gentlemen rose to address the House after the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, and as promptitude is of the utmost importance, I have thought it right to make an appeal to the House to consider whether we should not endeavour at once to carry this matter to an issue. I begin by referring to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, and will, in the first instance, allude to the less important parts of his speech. The right hon. Gentleman, referring in the exercise of his undoubted liberty to the previous conduct of the Government, said, that on former occasions, or on a former occasion, he thought they might have been chargeable with delay, hesitation, and want of prescience and energy. No one, I hope, will suppose that I complain of the right hon. Gentleman for having chosen this occasion to mention that charge against the Government; it was an occasion purely germane, I think, and suitable for any objection of that nature. At a time when we are performing the irksome and painful duty of asking Parliament for powers beyond the practice and foreign to the spirit of the Constitution the right hon. Gentleman was well entitled to say, "Had you at a former period been more careful of the powers which the law already gave you, you need not have placed Parliament in the painful position it occupies to-day; you need not have called on us to make this choice between endangering the peace of Ireland and the security of loyal subjects on the one hand, and interfering with the regular course of law and abridging the privileges of liberty on the other." But admitting entirely the relevancy of the charge, I hope
 717 Geo "An Act for more effectually preventing the administering and taking of unlawful oaths in Ireland, and for the protection of magistrates and witnesses in criminal cases." "And unless be or she shall answer to the satisfaction of such magistrate, or produce sufficient security for his or her good behaviour, he shall be then detained." 718 719 720 721 722 723 724
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I listened with much concern to the notice given by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State yesterday, and I have heard his narrative this morning with unaffected anxiety. For a Government to come forward to suspend the most precious constitutional right of the people is an act which requires on their part the greatest courage; and if a Parliament concede such a measure it is obvious that it must be done with the utmost reluctance. I, therefore, cannot agree with some expressions of opinion that I have listened to—that Her Majesty's Ministers should be blamed because they have hesitated in coming forward to make this proposition. If, indeed, this were the occasion on which to criticise the conduct of Her Majesty's Government with regard to their administration of Irish affairs, I would rather myself have touched upon the delay, the hesitation, and the want of prescience and energy which have been exhibited by Her Majesty's Government with respect to these matters on preceding occasions. For example, it was only last year that an act was repealed under which Her Majesty's Ministers might have obtained all the powers that are now necessary, without having recourse to Parliament, under the pressure of the extreme circumstances which now exist. The Members of the present House, who were Members of the last Parliament, will recollect that an Act—an antiquated Act of Parliament—called the Rapparee Act was repealed during the last Session. That was an Act of the reign of Queen Anne. I believe there was no objection from any party in this House to concede the repeal of an Act which was entirely obsolete, and which was totally unworthy of this country. But during the passing of that Act—a clause from a comparatively modern Act of Parliament—I believe the 50  Geo. 683 684 685
 MR. MOORE : I can speak of my own knowledge that my hon. Friend has no Fenian sympathies. We travelled together
 707
 MR. HORSMAN : I appeal to the House whether the hon. Gentleman did not more than once refer to previous speeches that he has made in this House on the Church and Land questions, and if it was not upon those speeches, and upon the part which he took in reference to the Incumbered Estates Court, that he founded his claim to the gratitude of Irishmen. At any rate, the hon. Gentleman said that he would give the Government the benefit of his support. He said he would support them on the present occasion. [Mr. BRIGHT: No!] Then I am to take it that he will not support the Government. At any rate, though I do not know what amount of value they might have placed on his vote, I am certain of this—that the Fenian conspirators will place a great deal of value upon his speech, I am quite sure that that speech will be very valuable to them. Sir, that speech did not surprise me, for I know, from what has often taken place here that whenever English authority comes into any collision with foreign interests in any part of the world, the conclusion of the hon. Member for Birmingham has always been that England is in the wrong and the enemies of England always in the right. I do not deny the patriotism of the hon. Member; but it seems to be a patriotism of that kind so well described by Canning, in the  Anti-Jacobin "Patriots of the world alone, And friends of every country but their own." 700 701
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, I am so deeply sensible of the urgency so properly impressed upon us by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, and I am so sensible of the responsibility that rests upon every one of us, and of the duty of passing this measure rapidly through, that nothing but the great surprise—the astonishment—I felt at some of the statements of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and the regret which others caused, would have induced me to trespass for a moment upon the House. But as the hon. Member for Birmingham appealed to the Irish Members, because of the deep interest he takes in Irish affairs, I, another English Member, venture to address a few words to him as well as to them, not with the view of provoking, but, on the contrary, of allaying irritation. I, Sir, must express my surprise that the hon. Member fur Birmingham, upon an occasion when it is admitted that time is so valuable, should have made that the occasion for provoking dissensions among us by raising a discussion upon Irish grievances. The Secretary of State has told us that the conspiracy in Ireland is formidable and extending, and he asks us to give the Government fresh powers to check it. How does the hon. Member for Birmingham assist the Government? By delivering himself of a speech that he had prepared for the Motion of the hon. Member for Tralee (The O'Donoghue) the other night. I listened with the utmost attention to his speech, and from the beginning to the end I could not discover upon which side his sympathies were engaged—whether in favour of the Government that wishes to put down this conspiracy, or in favour of the conspirators. To be sure he did not say he was in favour of the conspiracy; but he took very good care to say that he thought there was a great deal to justify it. He appealed to his previous speeches; he said—
 "I do not justify conspiracy, but every year the people of Ireland are insulted by a dominant Church. I do not tell you rebellion is justifiable, but the country is cursed in the hands of cruel and rapacious landlords."
 MR. HUNT  desired to explain what arrangement had been come to between him and the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. It had been arranged that the Cattle Diseases Bill, which had just been passed, should deal with the movement of cattle only as regarded their carriage by rail and their landing at ports. The Bill under consideration, it had been arranged, should deal with the movement of cattle generally; and, therefore, all other clauses foreign to that matter had been struck out of it. He was obliged to the Government for having consented to his proposal to place this Bill first upon the Orders of the Day for Monday, and he moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished briefly to occupy the attention of the House while he gave a personal explanation, and sought to do justice to a gentleman of great eminence. In a recent speech he had used words which purported to express the sentiments of Dr. Manning. He had received a communication from Dr. Manning, requesting him to state the authority upon which he (Mr. Whalley) had attributed those sentiments to him. He had furnished Dr. Manning with that authority, and he held a letter in his hand from Dr. Manning, in which he entirely repudiated the sentiments which had been attributed to him, and he (Mr. Whalley) was perfectly ready to accept the repudiation of those sentiments on the part of Dr. Manning.
 Mr. SPEAKER  left the Chair at six o'clock.
 Mr. SPEAKER  resumed the Chair at eleven o'clock.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member for Kilkenny was in order.
 MR. DILLON : Sir, the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) has this day delivered a speech which, notwithstanding the censures that have been pronounced
 702 703 704
 MR. ROEBUCK : The question, Sir, which rises in my mind after the speech of the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Bright) is, why that speech was made? Was it for the purpose of smoothing the difficulties in our way, or of conciliating Ireland? To my mind, Sir, the purpose was mere mischief. No one is more ready than I am to acknowledge that the reign of England over Ireland has been for centuries a reign of misrule, and I do not believe that centuries of misrule can be wiped out by a small number of years of good Government. Such I maintain to be the actual state of Ireland. I admit that for ages there has been misrule; but I assert, in the face of the hon. Member for Birmingham, that there has been for the last thirty years great and careful consideration bestowed by this House upon her interests, and that no appeal has been made to us in support of measures tending to her real welfare to which we have not listened. That being so, we have a speech like that of the hon. Gentleman complaining from beginning to end of the miseries of Ireland, urging that something must be done, while the hon. Member never puts his finger on a single grievance, and never points out a single measure which it is expedient that we should adopt. Sir, it is all very well to be an admirable declaimer—it is all very well in pathetic tones to lament over the miseries of Ireland; but in what, I would ask, do these miseries consist? I will, step by step, go through the present condition of that country, and compare it with that of England. First and foremost there has been in Ireland for the last twenty-five or thirty years as perfect personal liberty as in any other portion of Her Majesty's dominions. Property is defended in Ireland by the same safeguards as it is in England. Complete freedom is given there as here to every man in his intellect and his endeavour to make his way in the world. There is no restraint placed upon Irishmen which is not also imposed upon Englishmen. But then, Sir, the great grievance of Ireland is said to be the Irish Church Establishment. Now, I should like to know from the hon. Member for Birmingham whether he does not feel the maintenance of an Established Church here to be as great a grievance to himself and those who share his religious views as the Irish Church is to the Irish Roman Catholics? [Mr. BRIGHT: Not at all.] Why not? The Dissenters in England claim
 696 Cries of 697 698
 MR. ROEBUCK : What is the date of that letter?
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said, that some asperity had been introduced into this discussion which he should not imitate. The occasion was one for deep grief, not for irritation. He agreed with the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) that this Bill was a cause for shame and humiliation to this country. We were present at the collapsing of a great delusion. England had for a considerable number of years been flattering itself that the Irish people had come to their senses"; that they were now sensible that they had got Catholic Emancipation and the Incumbered Estates Bill, which were the only things they could possibly want; and had become aware that a nation could not have anything to complain of when it was under such beneficent rulers as us, who, if we do but little for them, would so gladly do much if we only knew how. We all knew that in times past England had been unjust to Ireland. Of that national sin this nation had repented; and we were not now conscious of any other feelings towards Ireland than those which were perfectly honest and benevolent, and he did not say this of one party, or of one side of the House only, he said it of all. But we had fallen into the mistake of thinking that good intentions were enough. We had been in the habit of saying pleasant things on this subject in the hearing of foreigners, till, from iteration, foreigners were beginning to believe that Ireland was no longer our weak point—England's vulnerable spot—the portion of our territory where we might perhaps be successfully assailed, and which, in any case, by neutralizing a great portion of our available force, disabled us from doing anything to resist any iniquity which it might he sought to perpetrate in Europe. This pleasing delusion was now at an end. Every foreigner, every continental writer, would believe for many years to come that Ireland was a country constantly on the brink of revolution, held down by an alien nationality, and kept in subjection by brute force. ["No, no!"] He did not mean that he shared that opinion; he disclaimed it. He hardly knew to what to compare the position of England towards Ireland, but some illustration of his meaning might be drawn from the practice of flogging. Flogging in some few cases was probably a necessary abomination, because there were some men and boys whom long persistence in evil had so brutalized and perverted that no other punishment had any chance of doing them
 706 "non possumus"
 MR. CONOLLY , speaking for all those who were interested in authority, property, and religion in Ireland, declared that they were prepared as one man to give their full support to the Government in the powers they now asked for. If, at the recent great meeting held in Dublin, they did not call for the measure now under consideration, it was because they knew the day was not far distant when such a request would be made. The only reason why they did not call upon the Lord Lieutenant to exercise his authority at that time was, that they had complete confidence in the sagacity and in the readiness of the noble Lord to adopt such measures as were necessary for the security of Ireland. If this question had been considered one of importance on previous occasions, every time it came before the House its importance was increased. Up to a recent period, the wise measures which Parliament had passed had produced signs of revival and improvement in Ireland; but these had been interfered with by the Fenian movement, which from his visit to America he had no hesitation in declaring to be of foreign origin. One of the consequences of the cessation of the war in America had been that a number of restless spirits had been thrown into idleness and inaction, and the result had been what might have been anticipated. The ancient policy of the country had been galvanized by the American war, and had taken the form of rebellion. It was the material Crown of this country that was aimed at, and to dissever Ireland from the English rule. But the policy adopted in the present Motion was an antiquated and obsolete policy, and was not the policy which had been inaugurated for the last twenty years. However, it was absolutely necessary that they should en-
 708
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The 21st of January. The next letter which I think it necessary to read from Lord Wodehouse relating to this subject—and I may say that for some time past I have been almost in daily communication with him on the matter—is dated the 4th of February, and in it he says—
 "I have little hope of pacifying the alarm, which is doing most serious injury to every interest here, without seizing the agents, who are busily employed all over the country, sowing sedition and organizing the conspiracy." 678 "I have come to the conclusion, after most careful consideration, that the time has arrived when it is indispensable for the safety of this country that the Habeas Corpus Act should be suspended. The Chancellor and Mr. Fortescue authorize me to say that they entirely concur in the pressing urgency of the measure." "There is a complete agreement among my advisers, and they feel most strongly with me the urgent necessity for prompt, indeed immediate, action. The state of affairs is very serious. The conspirators, undeterred by the punishment of so many of their leaders, are actively organizing an outbreak with a view to destroy the Queen's authority. Sir Hugh Rose details the various plans they have in contemplation." "And he draws no exaggerated picture. There are scattered over the country a number of agents who are swearing in members, and who are prepared to take the command when the moment arrives. These men are of the most dangerous class. They are Irishmen imbued with American notions, thoroughly reckless, and possessed of considerable military experience, acquired on a field of warfare (the civil war in America) admirably adapted to train them for conducting an insurrection here. There are 340 such men known to the police in the provinces, and those known in Dublin amount to about 160, so that in round numbers there are 500—of course there are many more who escape notice. This number is being augmented by fresh men constantly arriving from America. In Dublin itself there are several hundred men (perhaps about 300 or 400) who have come over from England and Scotland who receive 1 s. d. 679 "I feel confident that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act will have a most salutary effect. It is remarkable that our reports show that the Fenian leaders are saying that there is no time to lose, as if they delay the Act will be suspended. I trust that the Cabinet will not think me an alarmist. I have watched every symptom here for many months, and it is my deliberate conviction that no time should now be lost in suspending the Act. I cannot be responsible for the safety of the country if power is not forthwith given to the government to seize the leaders. With that power I hope still to avert serious mischief. I most earnestly urge that the Bill for the suspension be brought in without delay." 680 681
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, it is with very deep and sincere regret that I rise to make the Motion of which I have given notice, and which I shall have to place in
 668 669 670 The Irish People. The Irish People "Dublin, September 8, 1865. "Brothers,—I regret to find that the letter I addressed to you has never reached you. Had you received it I am confident all would have been right before this, because I told you explicitly what to do, and, once you saw your way, it is sure to me that you would have done well. Far as I can understand your actual position and wishes now, the best course to take is to get all the working B's together, and after due deliberation and without favour to any one—acting purely and conscientiously for the good of the cause—to select one man to represent and direct you all. This selection made, the man of your choice should come up here at once, when he shall get instructions and authority to go on with the good work. There is no time to be lost. This year—and let there be no mistake about it—must be the year of action. I speak with a knowledge and authority to which no other man could pretend, and I repeat, the flag of Ireland—of the Irish Republic—must this year be raised. As I am much pressed for time I shall merely add that it shall be raised in a glow of hope such as never gleamed around it before. Be, then, of firm faith and the best of cheer, for all goes bravely on. Yours fraternally, J, POWER." 671 "N.B.—This letter must be read for the working B's only, and when read must be burnt." The Irish People. "I have got seven 'B's' (or captains), 54 'C' S' (or sergeants), and about 400 rank and file, with five revolvers, fourteen rifles, and 300 pikes. I hope this will satisfy you." 672 Irish People 673 "To the Irish People.—Citizen Soldiers,—Again we address you on the importance of the coming struggle. To urge upon you the necessity of prudence we shall not now do, as your past conduct proves you to be men of prudence and discretion. But we shall urge upon you the necessity of earnest preparation. Let all true Irishmen understand one another. In a country where it is 'treason' to have a rifle it is necessary for you to put your weapons in concealment until the day of action. That grand work of liberation shall soon begin. Soon shall our country have an army of citizen-soldiers; soon shall the sunburst shine upon our hills. Our perfidious enemy, aware of the power with which she will have to cope, is making every preparation. She is fortifying her strongholds, barring her prisons, arming her 'loyal' subjects—amongst the rest, 'Orangemen.' She is sending English and Scotch troops to our country. But her strongholds shall give way; her prison doors shall fly open; her arms and her troops become an instrument against herself. She has to contend against that mightiest of powers, the outraged but almighty people. The perjured press, in their fear, thunder out against us. They and all Irish foes will have soon cause to regret the day they worked against their country. We call upon all classes of our countrymen, no matter what creed they profess, to stand forth and be ready to aid in the liberation of Ireland. Ours is no party cause. We embrace Protestants, Catholics, Dissenters, and all who love Ireland. For Ireland a Republic, for Ireland in freedom, we work. A band of patriots, bound together by all the ties of amity and patriotism, pledged to one another in the sacred cause of liberty, may ere long commence that glorious struggle for the accomplishment of which so many have sacrificed their lives on the scaffold and in the field. Let all true men hold themselves in readiness. We advise sobriety, preparation, and prudence. Remember Emmett! Think on your imprisoned countrymen.—By order of the Vigilance Committee. God save the People." 674 The Irish People 675 676 "I hope that the presence of troops in some of the towns may perhaps allay the general alarm. I am, however, by no means confident on this point, and I wish to call the serious attention of the Government to the state of affairs here, which I regret to say becomes daily more unsatisfactory. When  The Irish People 677 "P.S. I forgot to mention that we have arrested at various times and places the American-Irish agents, but they are too wary to carry about with them the evidence necessary to convict them. We usually find on them drill-books and a sum of money—sometimes considerable—in gold."
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he was certain that if the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) had said anything in his speech that was calculated to produce mischief, the House would feel that he owed a most ample apology to the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield for having intruded upon his special domain. He did not expect when he came into the House that day that he would hear any Fenian speeches; but he regretted to say that he had heard from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield one of the strongest Fenian speeches it was ever his misfortune to have listened to. He (Sir John Gray) had no sympathy with Fenianism, and no sympathy with the members of that wicked and foolish conspiracy. From his personal knowledge of the means proposed to be used by the Fenian conspirators, he could not say with his hon. Friend the Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) that there was much either of virtue or of honour connected with the movement, in fact or in sympathy. He regarded the Fenians, judging of them by their own avowal, as men who were banded together for the purpose of assailing property of every kind. ["No, no!"] Some Gentlemen might say "No, no!" but he (Sir John Gray) spoke from facts within his own knowledge, and he repeated that it was avowed by these men that a general assault upon the persons and property of either priest or layman who opposed them was not only legitimate but laudable. The Fenians had honoured him by associating him in an indictment with the Archbishop of Dublin, for having given publicity to the opinions of the Archbishop, warning his flock against the criminal designs of those men, which he said were based on a desire to upset the rights of property, and even to deal summarily with the lives of all who differed from them or opposed themselves to their projects. He was charged with being a co-conspirator, to use the legal phrase, with the Archbishop of Dublin, for the purpose of preventing the Fenians from getting a fair trial in their own country, and he had to defend himself in the law courts of the country against that charge. In doing this he had to go carefully into the whole of their proceedings, read all their documents and proclamations, and from the knowledge he thus acquired he would not hesitate to pledge himself to the
 709 710
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, he was obliged to the hon. Gentleman who had called him to order, because the rebuke their hon. Speaker had administered to that hon. Gentleman showed that he it was who was transgressing the rules of order and debate. He would, therefore, again venture to repeat that those who ruled in Ireland as a hostile though resident ascendancy over the masses of the people of Ireland, and those who had grasped to themselves nearly all the places of power, of authority, and emolument, including the ecclesiastical property of the people, had no sympathy with the masses of the Irish population, and were the real promoters of disaffection. When the proceedings of that House were made known in Ireland he regretted to say it would be seen that when an English representative of transcendant power and ability pleaded in this House for justice to the Irish race and nation, with an eloquence that was as much to be admired as was the broad statesmanship that inspired it, there were to be found Members calling themselves Liberal who delighted in pouring out upon that great and gifted man their invectives, and in assailing him for no other offence than that of asking that the Irish people be ruled with justice and with equity.
 SIR PERCY BURRELL  rose to Order.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in answering the Question just put to him he might also reply to another Question of which notice had been given. Mr. Boxall had been appointed to the office of Director of the National Gatlery in place of the late Sir Charles Eastlake, and his relations to the Treasury were regulated by a Minute passed some years ago, which Minute had not undergone any alteration. Before advising the appointment of Mr. Boxall, his noble Friend at the head of the Government applied to those Trustees who took an active part in the administration of the National Gallery, and saw Lord Overstone and Mr. Russell, and took their advice. In making choice of Mr. Boxall, the noble Lord had been guided simply by a desire to obtain the most efficient man. He did not proceed upon the idea of creating any precedent or establishing any rule that the Director of the National Gallery must necessarily be a painter or an artist. No rule of that kind had been established; nor should any such rule be adopted, inasmuch as the appointment ought to be conferred solely according to the qualities and attainments of the individual, and not because of the profession he happened to pursue. Perhaps his noble Friend would like him also to state that in making the appointment he had reason to know that it was one which would have been recommended and was desired by the late deeply lamented Director of the National Gallery, Sir Charles Eastlake.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that the Report referred to a matter of very great importance, and one involving large interests. It had, however, been but a short time in the hands of the Government. He was, therefore, unable to say at present what course the Government would take in respect to it in the present Session.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  believed that the Minute of the Treasury directed that the appointment should be made for five years.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I think a short statement of the facts of the case will be the best answer to the Question put by the hon, Member, and will show that there are no grounds out of which any occasion for an inquiry of this nature could arise. A Cabinet Council was held on Friday, and it was late on the afternoon of that day that the Council determined to lay the Bill before the House at an early hour on Saturday. It happened that on Friday, the day on which the Council was held, Her Majesty was at Osborne.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked, whether the attention of the Government had been called to the claims of insurance companies for compensation for the sums paid by them to persons whose cattle had been slaughtered; and, if their attention had been drawn to the matter, whether they intended to introduce a clause giving such compensation?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as far as he was aware, the attention of the Government had not been drawn to the matter. He was bound to say, without giving a conclusive answer on a subject with which he might be imperfectly acquainted, that he saw no grounds for thinking that insurance companies were entitled to any compensation for the sums paid by them to farmers whose cattle had died from the plague. The insurance companies paid for the cattle that had died, merely to make up the losses of the farmers, while the object of the Bill was not to compensate the persons who had suffered, but to check the progress of the disease.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  thought that the Chancellor of the Exchequer misunderstood the Question. What he wished to know
 764
 MR. HUNT  rose to order. They were now on the Preamble, and there was nothing in the Bill before the Committee bearing on the subject introduced by the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate). The matter was a very fitting one for discussion at the proper time.
 MR. BARROW  asked the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), whether he could in conscience proceed with his Bill on that night. When he (Mr. Barrow) entered the House, he found on the paper two pages of Amendments which were to be moved on the clauses of the Bill. There was scarcely a clause in the Bill on which an Amendment was not to be moved. The printed Notices were only put into his hands at three o'clock that afternoon, and hon. Members had had no time to consider the Amendments. He therefore asked the hon. Member for Northamptonshire not to proceed with the Bill on that evening.
 MR. HUNT  said, it would be very much against his conscience not to proceed with the Bill. The Amendments were delivered with the printed papers that morning. Several important clauses of the Government Bill which passed last week were not printed at all, and he had grave doubts at the time whether he ought to have accepted them; but so anxious was he that the Bill should be sent as early as possible to the other House, that he refused to delay the Bill by forcing on the consideration of the Committee his own objections to them. The Committee was well aware of the great difficulty which an independent Member had with regard to such a complicated Bill; and he hoped, under the circumstances, that the Committee would extend to him its indulgence, and would not arrest the Bill on account of the objection raised by his hon. Friend.
 MR. ACLAND  expressed his thanks to the hon. Gentleman the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) for the great labour and attention he had devoted to this subject, and asked him to state what was the general scope of his proposed Amendments.
 MR. HUNT  said, his intention was to have reserved that statement until he came to the 13th clause; but he was in the hands of the Committee, and would either
 765
 MR. ACLAND  said, that as the 5th clause raised a very important question with regard to the appointment of officers, he thought it would be better for the hon. Gentleman to make his statement at once.
 MR. HUNT  said, that as it appeared to be the wish of the Committee he would proceed at once to state the general scope and object of his Bill. But first, he would take that opportunity of thanking hon. Gentlemen on both sides the House for the assistance they had given him, not only in the preparation of the Bill, but since its introduction. He had received suggestions on the subject of the Bill from Gentlemen of all parties, and representing every shade of opinion; and only the great difficulty of finding an opportunity for fully discussing the question with every Member who had communicated with him with reference to his Bill had prevented from giving every Gentleman that amount of time which the importance of the subject demanded. The principle of the Bill now under consideration was that adopted at the conference at St. James' Hall—namely, that for a certain space of time there should be no movement of cattle through Great Britain. That principle was also affirmed at that most important meeting recently held in the tea-room of the House, at which Members of both Houses were present, and at which both of the great political parties were about equally represented. Now, it was a very easy thing to assert as an abstract principle, that for a certain period all movement of cattle in Great Britain shall be stopped; but to carry that principle into action was very difficult indeed. He had introduced into his Bill—and it would be necessary to introduce into any Bill on the subject—certain exceptions to the general rule forbidding all transfer of cattle from one place to another. The Home Secretary stated, a few nights since, that it would be impossible to lay down any code of rules regulating the transfer of cattle which would be applicable to the requirements of every part of the country. He believed that to the rule laid down by the right hon. Gentleman there was one important exception. He believed that if any one of them were to sit down in his own library to frame such a code, however great his knowledge of agricultural matters might be, he could not possibly succeed. In the House of Commons, and in the House of Commons alone, it was possible to frame
 766 767 768 769 770
 MR. ACLAND  thanked the hon. Gentleman for the explanation he had given of
 771 772 773
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  hoped that they would be allowed to get to work at once upon the Bill, for many remarks that had been made would have to be made over again when they came to the appropriate clauses.
 MR. BARROW  said, that the Bill was read a second time without an opportunity being afforded for discussion, and therefore he thought there was some justification for making a few observations on its principle on the present occasion. To that principle he was opposed. Fidelity to his constituents, who preferred the Government Bill before this, required him to remove to some extent the impression produced by the alleged unanimity of the two great meetings. That at St. James' Hall was addressed by speakers who went to support a particular view, but the majority of the meeting did not vote for the resolutions; while the third Resolution passed by the meeting in the tea-room of the House affirmed that it ought to be permitted to remove cattle from one district to another in districts which were declared to be free from infection. To prohibit the removal of cattle 100 yards along the highway, or along an occupation road from one field to another in the same holding, would be to carry a principle to an extravagant excess, and to enact a law which could not be enforced. It would be better to leave such regulations, and the proclamation of infected districts, to the local authorities. His constituents had declared that they
 774
 MR. BOUVERIE  observed, that in looking through the Bill he found that the whole of the machinery which it provided was to be purely English machinery, not at all adapted to Scotland, to which country, also, it was intended that the measure should apply. That was a defect which ought, he thought, to be obviated.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  could assure the right hon. Gentleman that Scotch interests were being carefully attended to by the promoters of the Bill, who were anxious at every stage to adapt it to the means of making its provisions available in Scotland.
 MR. DENT  objected to the appointment of overseers under its operation by the guardians of the poor, contending that their duties, though not exactly the same, would clash with those discharged by officers nominated under the Government Bill by the local authority. He should therefore move the omission from the clause of the words "guardians of the poor for each union, parish, or township," and the insertion of the words "local authority" instead.
 MR. HUNT  said, the words "cattle overseers" were in the Government Bill originally, and, although they had in its passage through the House been struck out of it, he could not help thinking it desirable they should be retained in the present measure. The guardians of the poor, by whom it was proposed that the cattle overseers should be appointed, were an elective body in whom the farmers had confidence. He had asked several farmers whether they would be satisfied with overseers so nominated, and their answer was "entirely." "The local authority," he might add, consisted of the magistrates met in quarter sessions, and who, not being so well acquainted with the farmers, would not be likely to make a selection pleasing to them as the guardians of the poor. It
 775
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that if the Bill passed in its present shape, there would be in some unions a greater number of overseers than would be required, while in others the number would not be sufficient.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  was understood to say that it would be found very inconvenient to assemble the Poor Law Guardians in Scotland.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought it was desirable that the local authority should be invested with the execution of the provisions of the Bill, otherwise it would clash with the Government measure.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  thought the Bill bore evidence that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire sought to legislate rather for the central counties of England than for the whole country as well as for Scotland. For his own part, he had a strong objection to the appointment of overseers being vested in the guardians of the poor. The magistrates were, in his opinion, the best persons to whom to intrust the power.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the discussion which had taken place showed how great the difficulty was of framing regulations applicable to the whole country. It was quite impossible, he maintained, that the clause as it stood could be worked in the North of England. In his own immediate neighbourhood, for instance, there were half-a-dozen different parishes in which there was only one rated occupier who must necessarily, if the Bill passed in its present shape, be a cattle overseer—and give certificates for his own cattle. If the hon. Gentleman looked at the 9th clause he would find that every local authority could appoint as many inspectors "and other officers" as might be necessary. In his opinion it would be much better to trust to the officers Appointed by the local authorities to carry out this duty, instead of appointing cattle overseers. The clause clashed with the provisions of Clause 21, and the objections to it in its present form were, in his opinion, quite insuperable.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to have a
 776
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the clause would supersede the regulations made under the present Orders, by which licences were given by justices of the peace on the declaration of the owner and of farmers, who would know what was going on in their own neighbourhood.
 MR. HUNT  said, he would consent to the clause being struck out, and he would confer with the right hon. Gentleman as to what should be inserted in its place with a view to obtain a confirmation of the declarations made by the owners of cattle.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that this and the three following clauses, which gave power to the chief constable of any county to appoint additional constables, were, in his opinion, altogether unnecessary. The police force of the several counties had already been temporarily increased with the sanction of the Secretary of State. He thought it would only complicate matters to pass this clause.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  thought that extra police were required in order to prevent stock going along a road from coming into contact with cattle in fields near the road.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  was of opinion that the clauses would complicate the existing machinery.
 MR. HUNT  said, that under this clause many persons could be appointed constables who could not be appointed under the provision alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman. As, however, his great ob-
 777
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, the clause required that on a requisition in writing from a certain number of ratepayers a slaughterhouse should be provided in each parish. This would lead to much inconvenience in the City of London, which comprised ninety-eight parishes, and he would therefore propose to add these words "with the consent of the local authorities."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he thought that some discretion should be allowed in this matter. The slaughterhouses might be required only for a couple of months. Every overseer would naturally call a vestry meeting and take the sense of the vestry upon it. He hoped, therefore, his hon. Friend would consent to add the words if "they think fit."
 MR. HUNT  said, he required the parish authorities to provide these slaughterhouses because he hoped they would become permanent. He contemplated a great change in the meat trade, which would make it necessary to have them permanent. He was quite willing to accept both Amendments, so that the clause would run thus, "With the consent of the local authorities, the overseers of the poor may, if they think fit," &c.
 MR. BARING  wished to ask the hon. Gentleman to consider the effect of this clause on the general state of the law relating to slaughterhouses all over England. At present considerable precautions were taken to prevent slaughterhouses from being erected in improper places, especially in the immediate vicinity of great towns and in the midst of large populations: but according to this clause, upon the requisition of three ratepayers, the overseers of the poor, with the consent of the mayor of a borough, might erect slaughterhouses without inquiry, without licence, and without enabling persons to state objections. Nor was the clause intended for a temporary purpose. On the contrary, his hon. Friend contemplated that the arrangement might become permanent. Therefore, by this clause his hon. Friend
 778
 MR. HUNT  said, if his hon. Friend had cast his eye on the paper of Amendments he would have seen that he intended to propose a clause giving power to justices to license slaughterhouses.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, as he understood the Bill, two borough magistrates could be empowered to license these slaughterhouses. Parliament had endeavoured by recent legislation to prevent slaughterhouses from being used in populous places; but this Bill would give the local authorities an opportunity of saying that they had the sanction of Parliament to do so, and they could grant a licence contrary to the course of the general legislation of that House. He thought the better plan would be to postpone any legislation on the subject for the present.
 MR. AYRTON  trusted the hon. Gentleman would consent to strike out the clause. In the first place, it had been reduced to a permissive clause. ["No!"] Well, then, it was equivocal if not permissive. He would beg to point out to the hon. Gentleman that these slaughterhouses were to be paid for and maintained for all time hereafter out of the poor rates. Now, that gave rise to a very important question—namely, whether any class in the community were entitled to have their business carried on at the expense of the public. He could not conceive why any person interested in the slaughter of cattle should get that business done at the expense of the poor rates. On what ground could they call on the parishioners out of the rates to pay for this particular business?
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that in many farms there were neither places to slaughter cattle in, nor persons who knew how to slaughter them.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, the question of slaughtering cattle was beset with difficulties, one of which was that of providing a skilled slaughterer; while another was the difficulty of finding land upon which slaughterhouses could be built; and neither of these was met by the clause, which simply provided the funds for building slaughterhouses. He imagined that the demand for beef would soon be very
 779
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that by the clause as it now stood, these farmers could procure the erection of a slaughterhouse. He thought that the vestry ought, as it should bear the expense, be the body authorized to erect or hire the slaughterhouses.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  supported the clause, which was intended solely for the benefit of the consumers, and would confer no benefit on the producers. He had no doubt that on large farms the necessary appliances for slaughtering a beast were always to be found; but this was not the case in small farms, and there were some parishes in which there were very few large farms.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, it was both difficult and dangerous to slaughter a beast on any farm where cattle were fatting. If fat cattle smelt the blood of a slaughtered beast it would throw them off their feed for a long time.
 MR. HUNT  said, he concurred in the statement that there might not be much difficulty in the case of large farms; but it might be convenient for the owners of a few beasts in a parish to have a parish slaughterhouse provided. There was a difficulty in some cases in killing beasts upon a farm, and if the clause were rejected it would come to this—that fat cattle would have to be moved along the high roads to places where they could be slaughtered. It had been decided by the House that cattle should not be moved along railroads, and it was thought desirable that the greatest restrictions should be placed on the movement of cattle on roads. He had, therefore, proposed the clause now under discussion, and he feared that if the clause were struck out, the principle involved in the Bill would in effect be defeated. He was willing to accede to the suggestions that the vestries should be consulted, and that the consent of the local authorities should be obtained.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  complained that the clause was drawn up from too narrow a view of the state of the country.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that the clause would make it possible for a couple of ratepayers—a mason and a carpenter—to apply for leave to provide a slaughterhouse. If the slaughterhouses were to be erected for the benefit of the
 780
 LORD ELCHO  said, that the poor rates in many districts were already so heavy that it was not desirable to increase them unnecessarily; and as it was to the interest of all parties that cattle should be slaughtered, there could be no doubt that means would be found for slaughtering them.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  would appeal to his hon. Friend not to go to a division on this clause. There might be in some places a private slaughterhouse already established, and the clause might be the means of establishing an unfair competition with it. The clause was a voluntary one, and it would be easy for those who wanted a slaughterhouse to provide one by voluntary arrangement.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  also trusted that his hon. Friend would not go to a division. In his county (Kent) the magistrates allowed no licences, with the view of having the cattle slaughtered on the farm. The disease had ever since steadily diminished, and it had not been found, as had been feared, that the sending the butcher to the farm had spread the infection.
 MR. HUNT  said, that as the feeling of the Committee seemed to be opposed to the clause, he would withdraw it.
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, he could not agree to the clause, which contained the principle of the Bill of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, believing that it would only increase the catastrophe which they were all seeking to avoid—namely, a deficiency in the supply of food next year. By adopting such strict regulations they would only prevent the breeding and rearing of cattle. The advance in the price of meat would be a sufficient encouragement to the producers, but these restrictions would prevent the natural operation of this inducement. Counties which were now free from the pest—such as Berkshire and Wales—would gladly avail themselves of the opportunity of producing an article of such value; and they would very shortly, if they were not prevented,
 781
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, it was true that a large part of Wales had hitherto escaped the disease, but no one knew how soon it might appear there. He believed that the system of licences would only produce confusion and unequal action, and he would propose to give the Privy Council the power of declaring certain districts to be uninfected,
 MR. HUNT  said, that the Bill of the Government only dealt with the railway movement of cattle for the interval between the present moment and the 25th of March. What was urgent was, that the movement of cattle should be stopped as soon as possible, and he proposed now to ask the House to discuss the clauses relative to the movement of cattle up to the 25th of March. If the House stopped the movement of cattle until then there would be time before that day to discuss under what conditions cattle should be removed afterwards. There would be no occasion to alter anything in the clause except the date, and he would propose to substitute the words "the 25th of March" for "the 30th of April." There were many persons who had got cattle feeding on the crops of others, and it was, he thought, desirable that they should have a few days' notice in order that they might be able to bring those cattle home.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  hoped the Committee would not pass the clause without making the exceptions that in counties
 782
 MR. BARROW  suggested that the great majority of those tenants who were preparing to leave their farms on the 25th of March would be put to great inconvenience if, meantime, they were not enabled to sell their cattle and obtain facilities for their removal.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, he saw no difficulty in having the sales take place on the 22nd or 23rd of March, and leaving the cattle to be removed until the 26th. In the case of the north-west of Scotland a certain latitude might be allowed under the operation of the Bill.
 MR. FLOYER  said, he was encouraged by what had fallen from the hon. Gentleman to make an appeal on behalf of the county which he had the honour to represent (Dorsetshire), which he was happy to say was entirely free from the plague. There were many large dairy farms on which great inconvenience would be occasioned by the strict enforcement of provisions prohibiting the movement of cattle up to the 25th of March. Seeing that county jurisdiction was so universally recognized for all purposes, there could be no objection to adopting it for this. The hon. Member for Lincolnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope) admitted that, under certain circumstances, counties might be excepted from the operation of the Bill if they were free from disease; and unless he had an intimation that exceptions of this kind would be made he must, with much regret, vote against this part of the Bill.
 MR. AYRTON  said, they were discussing all sorts of imaginary exceptions, which would assume a more definite form when they had passed the clause, as they might do, seeing that it anticipated necessary exceptions.
 MR. DYCE NICOL  said, that he was glad to find that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had acceded to the suggestions made that the duration of his Bill and that
 783 "The dissolution of our association in the prospect of the passing of the Government Bill gives me great satisfaction, as we could not have gone on. The disease has assumed so mild a form in Kincardineshire, that it would have been impossible, and certainly imprudent, to enforce the stamping-out policy, seeing that recoveries are the rule and deaths the exception."
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  rose to pro-pose the Amendment of which he had given notice in the interest of a large district, containing counties that had not been infected, and others in which there had been comparatively few cases of disease—namely, Monmouth, Hereford, Gloucester, &c. No part of England had adopted more Stringent measures than the quarter sessions of this had, and their orders had done more to protect it from exposure than would this Bill, if it had been passed in its first form. In this district it would he almost cruel to prohibit the movement of cattle up to the 25th of March. His Amendment was, that the fallowing proviso be added at the end of Clause 17:—
 "Provided nevertheless that nothing in this Act contained shall prevent the removal of live beasts within any district which the Lords of Her Majesty's Privy Council shall, by Order in Council, declare to be free from Cattle Plague, such district being of not less area than one thousand square miles, and having well-defined boundaries, within five miles of which boundaries, not being formed by sea, no movement of live beasts shall take place: Provided, also, That such Order may from time to time be revoked." 784
 COLONEL PENNANT  wished for some explanation in regard to the concluding portion of the clause. Did the hon. Gentleman mean five miles within the boundary, or five miles beyond it?
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he meant five miles within the boundary, in order that there might be a zone which would be a security against infection. That plan had been successfully adopted in Devonshire and other counties, and universally on the Continent.
 MR. ACLAND  thought the clause was a very important one, but he would suggest that the following addition should be made to it:—
 "Provided that satisfactory evidence be produced that no case of cattle plague has occurred in such districts within two months previous to the date of such order, and that such order shall,  ipso facto,
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the object of the Amendment was to affirm the third Resolution passed at the meeting in the tea-room. It had been remarked, however, by several hon. Gentlemen, that that Resolution was passed in great confusion at the close of the meeting, and that the majority of those present did not agree to it. The hon. Gentleman proposed that the Privy Council should have power to declare certain districts to be uninfected. No power would in that case be given to the local authorities; and some counties would be prevented from taking those wise precautions which they were now taking with the view of keeping out the cattle plague. Looking at the various circumstances in different parts of the country, he thought it would be impossible to prevent the local authorities from exercising discretionary power to a great extent. This only showed that he was correct in stating at the commencement of the discussion, how difficult it was to frame a general code of regulations for the whole country. He would consent, however, to the clause being passed now, on the understanding that the objections were to be taken into consideration at a future time.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he had prepared an Amendment, reserving the power to the local authorities—
 785 "In counties free from the cattle plague any sound beast may, on a licence being obtained for that purpose, be moved along any highway to a port of embarkation, unless the local authorities should determine otherwise."
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  said, he believed that if in the northern counties sheep and cattle were not allowed to be brought down from the mountainous districts in the winter time many of them would perish from hunger. He would therefore propose this proviso:—
 "Provided, also, that the power by law now vested in the local authorities of these counties shall remain in force, and that in the event of the cattle plague appearing in any one of the counties aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the Lords of the Privy Council to extend those provisions of this Act as may be necessary to such counties."
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  thought the area ought not to be specified, but that it should be left to the Privy Council to define what districts were free from disease. In other respects, he agreed with the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian.)
 MR. PUGH  said, he was in favour of] the proviso of his hon. Friend, inasmuch as it gave the discretion to the Privy Council, which had advantages which other: bodies had not. It had a Veterinary Department, and made reports of the state of the disease from week to week in all parts of the country. He therefore thought it was a power which, in the words of the right hon, Baronet, "might hold the reins according to the shifting circumstances of the hour" and loosen them or tighten them at discretion—
 "— Qui fœdere certo Et premere et laxas sciret dare jussus habenas."
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSEY  said, he fully recognized the object of the hon. Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian), which was to enable those districts which were free from the plague freely to rear cattle and thus benefit themselves and others. But the Privy Council might declare a district free from infection, and the disease might reappear and spread over it
 786 "Provided, nevertheless, that nothing in this Act contained shall prevent the removal of live beasts within any district which the Court of Quarter Sessions may declare free from the cattle plague."
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, that in his own part of the world they had made the most stringent regulations as to the movement of cattle. But absolutely to prohibit in districts which never had been infected, and were very extensive, the movement of stock, because there was disease in other parts of England, was really going too far, and was not consistent with common sense. The county of Pembroke, for instance, was a very large stock-breeding county; it was 150 miles from any disease, and was it to be proposed that there was to be no movement of cattle there?
 MR. MITFORD  trusted that the proviso of the hon. Gentleman (Colonel Lindsay) for some similar one, would be agreed to. In the Western Division of Sussex, which he represented, there was no infection, and the effect of the clause preventing the movement of cattle would be to debar him and almost every farmer in that district from sending his cattle to drink the water to which they were accustomed. They were content to submit to all necessary restrictions; but he thought that in a district in which there was no infection it was unnecessary to submit to these stringent regulations which were suitable for infected districts. On the contrary, it was desirable to encourage by every possible way the growth of stock in counties without infection; and in the South Downs, the district in which he lived, it was a question whether any stock should be kept at all. The farmers there should rather be encouraged to breed stock in order to make up for the deficiency in other parts of the country.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that if they were to continue this discussion on the proviso much longer, they would soon have as many verbal Amendments as there were Members of the Committee present. They were pretty well agreed both as to the clause and the proviso. Every one might have a fancy for some particular wording, but they were agreed that where there was any large district free from the plague, it should not be subject to the most stringent rules. ["Hear, hear!"] The right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary cheered as if his first view of the subject—that it was impossible to introduce uniform regulations
 787
 SIR GEORGE GREY  had no objection to the substance of the proviso if modified in the way he had suggested. What he wanted was that there should be a distinct power given by law to the local authorities in these districts to make such regulations as in their particular case appeared desirable.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, that he would modify the clause by leaving out the words relating to area, and adding words giving permission to the Cattle Board to prevent the introduction of animals into the districts mentioned in the clause.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  asked what were to be the boundaries of the districts mentioned in the clause.
 MR. HUNT  said, that there were certain natural boundaries which could be made the boundaries between the infected districts and the districts to which the clause would extend. For instance, Inverness-shire was mentioned in the tea-room as one of the five Scotch counties reported
 788
 MR. BARING  said, he differed from the hon. Member for Northamptonshire in the view he took of the matter. He agreed that some power should be given to the counties not infected to prevent the introduction of diseased cattle; for it was quite impossible to agree to such stringent provisions as these proposed with respect to that large part of England which was still free from disease. He had before him the statistics of the progress of the disease in the last week. There were 84 counties in England, Wales, and Scotland. There were no fresh outbreaks and no attacks at all in 34 counties—8 in England, 10 in Wales, and 16 in Scotland. In 8 other counties—3 in Scotland and 5 in England—no fresh outbreaks had taken place, although there were attacks in places where the disease had before existed. In 22 other counties—14 in England and 8 in Scotland—there were less than 5 fresh places in which the disease had broken out. The figures therefore showed that in 64 out of 84 counties the disease had not spread to any great or serious extent; and in these 64 counties he hoped there would not be much difficulty, with the aid of the powers given by Parliament, in putting a stop to the disease. With regard to the remaining counties there were many attacks of the disease, and in some of those counties it had raged fearfully. Out of these 20 counties there were 4 in which the number of attacks was not less than seven-tenths of the whole. In the 64 counties partially infected there were only 792 attacks in the course of the week. In the 20 other counties there were 10,798 cases. In the four counties to which he had referred—Cheshire, Lincolnshire, Yorkshire, and Forfarshire—there
 789
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the clause might almost have specified the counties in which the disease had not made its appearance and separated them from the rest. There would be nothing more mischievous than that the local authority should have the power of making orders. Where the cattle plague existed, there let there be uniform rules.
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  suggested whether it would not be desirable to enable the local authorities of Manchester, and other large towns similarly situated, to increase their market accommodation for dead meat. The result of the Government Bill and of the present Bill would be to alter the supply of meat to the people. He apprehended that when the movement of cattle was checked the dead meat would be sure to find its way into the largest market of the neighbourhood with which he was connected—namely, Manchester, and that the inhabitants of that populous district would have to get their supplies from that town. He doubted, however, whether at Manchester there now existed the means of so exhibiting the meat that a proper choice could be made of it by purchasers, and it might be expedient to empower the authorities, by levying tolls, to extend their accommodation for that purpose. Again, in order to afford facilities for the due supply of certain towns, it might also be desirable to enable them to hold more frequent markets.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  asked, what was meant by the word "closes?"
 MR. HUNT  replied, that "close" was a legal term known to the law.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  wished to know whether it would be possible under the operation of the clause as it stood for a farmer whose cattle might be in a homestead in some village to send them to the pasturage which was their feeding ground. He should propose the substitution of the word "land" for "closes."
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not quite understand what his hon. Friend meant by the word "land." The meaning of the clause as it stood was, that cattle might be moved about from field to field on the owner's farm, but that they could not travel along a road for more than a distance of 200 yards.
 MR. KEKEWICH  observed, that in many cases the highway intersected the farm and divided the homesteads in which the cattle were kept from the pasture grounds, and that great inconvenience would be caused to farmers in the county with which he was connected if the clause passed in its present shape. He should therefore suggest that, instead of restricting the distance as proposed, the local authorities should be empowered to allow cattle to be driven to their pastures under a licence.
 MAJOR WINDSOR PARKER  suggested that the distance of 200 yards should be increased to half a mile.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  believed that the word "field" would be better understood than "close" or "land."
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  thought that "land" would comprise everything; while the same could not be said either of "close" or "field."
 MR. EVANS  advocated the insertion of the words "with a licence."
 MR. HUNT  thought that if a licence were necessary to every removal the clause would be found to be too stringent.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  believed the Amendment would be found exceedingly vexatious, and hoped that it would not be passed. He suggested that the words allowing the movement from one part of the farm to another over 200
 791
 MR. HUNT  said, that the reason why he had specified 200 yards was because some farmers had fields on both sides of a road. He desired that some restriction should be placed, even if farmers should be allowed to move their cattle three, four, or five hundred yards instead of two; but if they were left unrestricted as to distance it might lead to great danger.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  reminded the Committee that if the suggestion of the hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) were accepted, farmers would frequently drive their cattle along the high road, because portions of their farms might be scattered widely over the country.
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, the restriction of the movement of the cattle to 200 yards would frequently prevent their being taken to the brook where they were accustomed to drink.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  could scarcely conceive a better mode of spreading the infection than that to which the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Sir Edward Buller) referred.
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  advocated the retention of an old custom, and not the adoption of a new practice. He would ten times sooner have the cattle plague among his herd than be unable to obtain water for their use.
 MR. P. S. POWELL  said, there was a degree of confusion in the use of the word "farm." In many cases the fields of a single farm were spread over a good deal of country, and were frequently partially separated. The distance of 200 yards ought to be increased.
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, that some hon. Gentlemen appeared to imagine that the Bill was to be a permanent one. If they wished to diminish the disease they must adopt the most stringent measures.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  agreed with the hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Sir Edward Buller) in thinking that the animals ought to be allowed to be taken to the brook. This clause was an example showing the inconvenience of having one invariable rule to be enforced throughout the whole country.
 MR. HUNT  said, he must press it on the recollection of the Committee that the clause was a relaxing clause, permitting farmers to move their cattle 200 yards
 792 793
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, as he understood the clause, farmers were to have an absolute right to move their cattle 200 yards without any licence being required, whereas the Amendment proposed would take away that right, and at the same time give the local authorities power to permit cattle to be removed even for a greater distance under a licence. He had no objection to a discretionary power being given to the local authorities to enlarge the limit so long as the right of the farmer to remove his cattle 200 yards without licence was left untouched.
 LORD GEORGE CAVENDISH  explained that he wished to make the clause more stringent instead of relaxing it. He had said nothing whatever as to enlarging the limit.
 MR. KEKEWICH  thought that in unaffected districts the local authorities should have power to grant licences for the removal of sound cattle under certain circumstances. That seemed to him to be the good sense of the case.
 MR. ADDERLEY  was of opinion that if the Amendment were carried the practice would vary in every county, and the Act would be rendered nugatory.
 MR. BOVILL  said, his practical experience in some parts of the country showed him that many small fanners—especially those occupying land in the home counties—were compelled to drive their cattle from the hills to the lowlands, and he thought 200 yards was too close a limit. What he proposed was to leave the farmers at liberty to move their cattle 200 yards without licences, and at the end of the clause to add words giving the local authorities power to grant licences for the removal of cattle a certain further distance, say of 500 yards. He did not intend absolutely to fix the limit to 500 yards, that was a matter for the House to determine.
 MR. LOCKE KING  thought that when the farmer had two farms at some distance from each other the question as to the propriety of removing the animals might be safely left in his hands, as he would not be anxious to convey the disease from one of his homesteads to the other.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  hoped, in
 794
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there were no provisions whatever in the Bill for granting licences, and therefore he should have no objection whatever to insert the words proposed by the hon. and learned Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill).
 MR. HENLEY  said, this was an exception to a very stringent rule, and they ought not to pass it without making it really useful. He understood the clause to be confined to one occupation. The machinery for the licence was already in the Bill. Where a man happened to have a large farm, say of 1,000 acres, highways might run along unfenced through the middle of his fields, and certainly he ought to have the power of moving his cattle with a licence from one part of his farm to another. If they did not give facilities of that kind the Act would be evaded, or an outcry would be raised against it throughout the country.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he thought it very desirable to have the clause so framed that a distinction should be drawn between lands where a man had an interest, and where he would move his cattle cautiously, and a piece of grass-land which he rented, perhaps a couple of miles distant, and where he would have less objection to send his infected animals. Some kind of licence he thought was necessary to give the farmer the right to remove his cattle to distant grazing-ground.
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, he hoped they would not attempt to make the Bill too stringent. He believed the slaughtering clauses would occasion considerable difficulty. He had heard to-day the case of a very respectable man who had twenty-two valuable beasts that had taken the plague—twenty were recovering; but according to this Act of Parliament the inspector might direct that the whole herd should be slaughtered. The owner of these cattle said he would suffer anything, he would almost rise in rebellion, rather than permit this, He would strongly urge the
 795
 MR. HUNT  asked if his hon. Friend intended that the licence should last till revoked. A man might get a licence when there was no cattle plague on his farm. The disease might break out among his cattle on the following day, and his licence would entitle him to remove them.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was not afraid the clause would open the door to diseased cattle. Cattle to be moved at all must be sound. The owner must give proof of their soundness before the licence was granted.
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  ap prehended no difficulty in the practical working of the clause. No justice of the peace would grant a licence without requiring proofs that the cattle to be moved were sound.
 MR. KEKEWICH  thought the matter not so simple as it was supposed to be. The clause permitted the farmer to move his cattle 200 yards along the highway; and if he went 210 yards he was fined. If he wanted to move them from the homestead to a pasture at a distance exceeding 200 yards he would have to apply to the local authority, who would give him a licence so long as the cattle were sound.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  hoped that the distance would be extended, and that the limit would be assigned in the licence.
 MR. BOVILL  then moved, as an Amendment, to add the following words to the clause:—
 "And with a licence for any longer distance and until such licence shall be revoked by any justice of the peace."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  concurred in the substance of the Amendment, but suggested that the words "justice of the peace"
 796
 MR. BOVILL  consented to omit those words.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, that it was not only necessary that the persons to grant the licences should be settled by the Bill, but also that the licences should be sanctioned by the local authorities.
 MR. HUNT  observed, that there was nothing in the Amendment to limit the distance to which cattle might be moved. He knew persons who had occupations three or four counties apart; and the Amendment would permit the removal of cattle from a farm in Caithness to a farm in Cornwall. The clause was drawn up for one purpose, and it was now attempted to turn it to another. He suggested that it should be allowed to stand as it was originally framed, and if the hon. and learned Member desired to take the sense of the House on his proposition let him bring it up as a separate clause.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  observed, that the Committee while intending to facilitate communication between diffierent parts of a farm, did not mean to sanction communication between widely-distant farms, nor to encourage evasion by butchers; and he would therefore move an Amendment suggested by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, to limit to two miles the distance within which cattle might be moved under licence.
 MR. BOVILL  would be quite content with the limitation; indeed, he would rather say one mile.
 MR. HUNT  complained that the Committee had gone to a division which meant nothing, and had got rid of one clause to insert another. If his recommendation had been adopted and a new clause brought up, the difficulty would have been escaped.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that whatever the division meant it had effected a great deal.
 MR. HENLEY  justified the division, on the ground that it had widened an exception to a stringent enactment.
 MR. E. CRAUFURD,  who knew a case in which a farmer's holdings were three miles apart, would leave the limitation of distances to local authorities.
 MR. HUNT  remarked that it was a pity that the hon. Member had not made the objection before, as two clauses had been already passed which contained the word "beast." Besides, the meaning of the word was explained in the Interpretation clause.
 MR. HUNT  said, he should not oppose the Amendment.
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  proposed to substitute the words "immediate slaughter," instead of the words "being taken to be slaughtered at a slaughterhouse provided under the Act."
 MR. HUNT  suggested to leave out the words "to be taken to be slaughtered" to the end, so that the clause might stand "for immediate slaughter at a slaughterhouse."
 MR. LOCKE-KING  said, that this was a most dangerous clause. It would be very desirable that opportunities should be given for the transfer of cattle from one farm to another. At present, owing to the stringent regulations in force, calves were often slaughtered as soon as they were dropped, and he need not say what a very serious thing anything approaching to a general slaughter of the young stock in the country would be.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the high price of milk, coupled with the restrictions on the movement of cattle, was causing an alarming destruction of newly-dropped calves in the dairy farms near the great towns. He did hope the Committee would do something to enable these young calves to be reared.
 MR. WALPOLE  thought that nothing could be more serious than this; there could be nothing more dangerous than the young stock of the country being cut off in this manner. He thought that Parliament ought not only give every facility to farmers to send the calves to breeding farms, but ought even pass an Act to prevent their reckless slaughter. In the Act passed a hundred years ago, one of the provisions was that no cow calves should be killed, in order that the breed of cattle might not be diminished. Some such provision might be inserted in the present Act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had been in communication with all parts of the country, and he thought that it was full time to do something to put a stop to the promiscuous slaughter of calves. He need not say what a very serious matter it would be if by their needless slaughter the future sup-
 799
 MR. HUNT  said that if it was the wish of the House he would introduce into the clause any insertions that the House wished for in order to enable the calves to be brought from the farms where they were dropped to farms where they would be reared.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he thought the clause an objectionable one; a great danger would arise from the intervention of the dealers in calves. He was disposed to divide the Committee on it.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  observed, that the various opinions entertained on the subject of this 21st clause afforded another illustration of the difficulty of dealing with this subject by statutory regulations, and convinced him that it would be better to leave it to the local authorities to make regulations suitable to the requirements of their respective counties.
 MR. HUNT  said, that if each county must have exactly what would suit itself, there would be no possibility of making such regulations as would be likely to stamp out the plague.
 MR. W. DUNCOMBE  said, the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary had several times made observations that showed he was still in favour of permissive legislation, and of leaving matters to the local authorities. He could state, however, from his own experience of courts of quarter sessions, that they objected to matters being left to them. They objected to the Government shifting the responsibility from their own shoulders and placing it upon those of country Gentlemen.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it could hardly stand in its present form. Clause 14 had authorized the movement of cattle to a certain limited extent without any licence. But this clause presumed from the mere fact of cattle being found upon the highway that they were being moved in contraven-
 800
 MR. HUNT  said, the act was to be proved, not to the satisfaction of the policeman who might stop the cattle, but of the magistrate before whom the person in charge was brought.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he foresaw grave inconveniences arising from the plan. There was a manifest inconsistency between the two clauses.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  suggested that the difficulty might be removed by giving a permanent licence to all persons requiring to move cattle upon their own grounds.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the suggestion was a wise and practical one, but words giving effect to it must be added to the clause.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that within the very short distance which cattle could be moved under Clause 14, the owners and the cattle themselves would be very well known.
 MR. DENT  thought this was precisely a case where a policeman owing a grudge to a farmer would have an opportunity of gratifying it by causing him petty annoyance.
 MR. AYRTON  foresaw this further difficulty about the explanation. The driver, not the cow, was to be taken before a magistrate for the purpose; and what was to become of the cow in the meantime. Everybody would be placed in a most embarrassing position.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH,  with a view of rendering the clause more intelligible, moved the insertion of the following words:—"Except for the space of 200 yards, as hereinbefore provided in Clause 14 of this Act."
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the 25th and 26th clauses must be considered together. The 28th clause threw the burden of proof upon the person having charge or possession of the cattle. A boy might be driving two or three cows and might be met by a policeman. Unless the boy could give a satisfactory account of the matter the policeman would carry off the boy and the cows to the station-house. Within forty-eight hours he must take him before the justice; but no provision was made by the clause for taking the owner of the cattle before the justice. How was this wretched boy, who probably knew nothing of arith-
 801
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, that the case of the boy might be pitiful, but the case of the policeman was more pitiful still, because he would have to drive the cattle, and being the driver of the cattle under the law he might be taken up by another policeman. The second policeman would then in his turn become the driver of the cattle according to the Act, and so it might go on until all the police of the county would be found arresting one another.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there was another important person—the common informer. If he found the boy and the cattle he might assume that the cattle were being removed without authority. By the Act the common informer was to receive half the penalty.
 MR. HUNT  suggested that the difficulty might he met by inserting, after the word "presume," the words "on any inquiry before a justice."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  would remind the Chancellor of the Exchequer that, although a common informer might obtain a portion of the penalty, he could neither stop the animals nor arrest the driver.
 MR. AYRTON  would recommend the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Hunt) to take time to amend the clause, and for this purpose he moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HUNT  proposed that the clause should run thus—
 "Where any person is charged before a Justice of the Peace with having moved a live beast on a public highway, it shall be presumed that it has been so moved in contravention of this Act until the contrary is shown."
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  suggested the desirability of reporting Progress, that the Bill might be re-printed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was afraid, notwithstanding his desire to go on with the Bill, that it would be impossible to finish it during the present sitting. Perhaps the hon. Member would be kind enough to say where he would stop, and what he proposed for consideration during the next sitting.
 MR. HUNT  said, he had hoped they would have been able to finish that portion of the Bill under discussion. With regard to the printing, he would assist in that respect as much as he was able; but the Amendments made in the Bill necessitated the framing of new clauses; and he did not think he could give notice of them then. The question of moving of hides was very important, so also was the cleansing of cattle grounds. He supposed it would be best to proceed with the consideration of the Bill after the "Notices" to-morrow—or rather he should say to-day, as it was past midnight.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  remarked that as the clause stood a person with a certificate authorizing him to move a beast would be liable to be apprehended, He therefore proposed to insert after the word "beast" the words "unless such person or persons can produce a licence authorizing him to remove such beast."
 MR. HUNT  said, it was desirable in addition to this to add a sentence protecting those moving cattle on their farms.
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  remarked, that it was impossible to pass it as it stood. The justices would have a direct personal interest in seizing a beast driven on the road. They were authorized to dispose of it as they thought fit. They might even eat it.
 MR. HUNT  said, great efforts would be made to smuggle beasts from place to place at night, and great risks would he run by the drivers to get the beasts moved, He therefore thought it desirable to have some such stringent provision as that proposed. Drivers should be made to lose as much as possible if they acted contrary to the Act.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  wished to ask the right hon. Baronet the Home Se-
 763
 MR. E. CRAUFURD  asked the Lord Advocate, Whether it is his intention to introduce any Bill during the present Session founded on the recommendations contained in the Report of the Sea Fisheries Commission?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  asked, whether the appointment was for a period of years or for life?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, a Bill had been prepared on the subject, and had been sent to Ireland for approval. As soon as it had been submitted to the Lord Lieutenant it would be laid before the House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  asked the President of the Board of Trade, When he will be able to lay upon the table of the House information with respect to the number of cattle in the United Kingdom? He also wished to know whether the Government intended to call for those Returns periodically or not?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the Returns of the number of cattle in the different parishes of Great Britain would be made by the 5th of March next, by the occupiers of land and others. No time would be lost in making up the aggregate Returns, and it was expected that they might he laid on the table immediately after the Easter recess. Those Returns were voluntary; but from the favourable disposition that had been evinced by magistrates, Boards of Guardians, and other local authorities, to co-operate with the Board of Trade in procuring those Returns, they might not unreasonably hope that the desired information would be satisfactorily obtained. With regard to the second Question, he would state that as the present attempt to obtain information was experimental, and until they had the test of experience, he would be unable to answer the inquiry.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied, that the endeavour was being made to procure Returns relating to all the cattle in the country.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he did not think it would be convenient to add another column to the schedule that was about to be sent to the farmers throughout the country in order that information might be procured as to the number of cattle in the country on the 1st of September. Whether it would be desirable to have a separate Return for that purpose he could not say without further consideration.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The subject to which the Question of his hon. Friend related has been considered, and a measure is in course of preparation for the purpose of giving security to the public that the statutory debentures issued by Railway Companies do not exceed the limits of the borrowing powers which such Companies are entitled to exercise under their Acts of Parliament.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, the Question which he was about to put arose from the fact that considerable alarm had been excited among the holders of debentures in consequence of some remarks which had been made at railway meetings to the effect that those bonds had been issued by railway companies in excess of their Parliamentary powers. He therefore wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he intends to propose any measure this Session for the registration of debentures issued by Railway Companies, with the view of enabling debenture holders or lenders of money on debentures to ascertain whether the Companies are in a position legally to issue such debentures?
 MR. MAINWARING : I wish to ask the Government, Why, when moments were so very precious, Her Majesty was not in London on Saturday to give the Royal Assent to the Bill for suspending the Habeas Corpus in Ireland?
 MR. GREGORY  asked, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill applicable to Ireland on the subject of the Cattle Disease?
 COLONEL STUART  asked, whether the whole of the cattle in the country would be included in the Returns?
 SIR GEORGE GREY : There was no illegality whatever in the matter. There is no law, Parliamentary or otherwise, to prevent the Houses of Parliament sitting on a Sunday when cases arise to render it necessary.
 VISCOUNT COURTENAY,  in the absence of Lord Henry Lennox, asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Mr. Boxall, R.A., has been appointed to the post of Director of the National Gallery, in the place of the late Sir Charles Eastlake; and, if so, whether any and what alterations have been made in the relations existing between that officer and Her Majesty's Government?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In reply to the Question of my right hon. Friend, I had better perhaps first say—the Question in its terms including the Queen's Colleges along with the Queen's University—that no changes whatever are contemplated in the charter and constitution of the Queen's Colleges. With respect to the changes contemplated in the charter and constitution of the Queen's University, I may best describe them by saying they are such as were indicated and explained towards the close of the last Session of Parliament in the speech of my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department, having for their object to qualify persons who have received their education in institutions where a particular or exclusive religion is taught to take degrees in the Queen's University, and likewise to make some arrangements for the purpose of obviating and removing jealousies and securing confidence with respect to those degrees. In reference to the last part of the Question of my right hon. Friend, of course I cannot say that it would be in our power to keep the House informed of those steps severally before proceeding with them, although I am by no means prepared to say that they involve a departure from the present system of University education in Ireland. But I can pledge myself that the charter and the Correspondence will both be presented to this House at the very earliest moment
 812
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Immediately that any charter varying from the present shall be issued it will be brought to the knowledge of this House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My right hon. Friend who has just sat down has expressed a hope that he would hear a few words from the Treasury Bench upon this occasion, and that hope of my right hon. Friend shall be gratified, while I can assure him also that those words will
 846 847
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he would not oppose the Motion, as it would be desirable they should see the Bill, but he did not suppose that the alteration could recommend it more than the former Bill, or that he could do otherwise than oppose it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not desire to deprive the hon. Baronet of the opportunity of stating his views and laying his plans before the House. He agreed with him in thinking that there were certain circumstances in the present state of the law with respect to the circulation in Ireland which, upon the first fair opportunity, might attract the attention of Parliament. But he was bound to say, in order that no misunderstanding might arise with reference to the Government making the subject a matter of deliberation, that in his opinion it would not only be an innovation to make Bank of England notes a legal tender in Ireland, but he conceived there to be very strong and practical objections to a measure of
 849
 MR. HUNT  proceeded to move a series of new clauses in lieu of Clauses 28 to 34 [Bill 7]  struck out
 MR. HUNT  said, that he was of opinion that a longer period—namely, to the end of April, might be taken for the restriction in this case than had been thought advisable with regard to the movement of cattle, inasmuch as there were no changes of tenancy affected by it. After the end of April the Government might discontinue the restriction or continue it at their pleasure. He had seen persons interested in the tanning trade, and they were, he believed, perfectly satisfied with the clauses as they now stood, and with the Amendments of which he had given notice. In the first line of the clause, he moved to omit "25th March" in order with the view of inserting "30th April."
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he did not think the hon. Gentleman could be aware of the excessive inconvenience which would be caused throughout the United Kingdom by this clause, both to the home and foreign trade in hides. According to this clause, no raw or untanned hides, horns, or hoofs, could be moved except in covered vehicles or vessels; his object, of course, being to prevent hides being carried in a way or in a state that would spread the infection. The clause, if passed in its present form, would put a stop to one of the most important industries in the country. If beasts were killed some provision must be made for the disposal of the hides. In Leeds, for instance, 900 beasts were killed and 4,000 skins were cured every week, so that upwards of 3,000 hides must be imported to keep up the supply. In Aberdeen some 1,200 beasts a week were killed; but as there was no tanning whatever carried on there, the whole of those hides would be left in Aberdeen literally to rot if this clause were carried. He had been assured that if hides were carried in a covered van, or with a top dressing of charcoal or bark, if in carts, no danger was to be apprehended. English hides were taken to the tan pit wet, and were likely to cause infection; but that was not the case with foreign hides, for they came into the country dry. Some foreign hides were brought in salted, and he believed some danger of infection existed as regarded them.
 MR. HUNT  did not understand that such would be the effect of the clause.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, the clause prevented the hides from being moved.
 MR. HUNT : Except in covered vans.
 MR. CRAWFORD : Covered vans only refers to railways.
 MR. HUNT  said, the next clause he proposed provided that hides, &c., might be carried in any street or highway continuously built on, except it should be necessary in so doing to pass by any place where beasts are kept, provided they are conveyed in a covered vehicle, or are covered with a layer of charcoal or tan.
 MR. CRAWFORD  maintained there was no necessity for the restriction as to foreign hides. He would move at a subsequent stage a proviso which would except raw hides, &c., imported from India, Australia, South Africa, or America.
 MR. HUNT  observed, that he had parted with the gentlemen connected with the tanning trade under the impression that what he intended to propose would satisfy
 851
 MR. LOCKE  said, he should certainly object to these restrictions with respect to hides being in operation until the 30th of April, while the restrictions on animals were only in force until the 25th of March. Nothing could show more plainly than this proposal the absurdity of applying the same rule to Northamptonshire and to the metropolis. It was surely preposterous to say that no hides should be moved about within the area of the metropolis until the 30th of April. Let them do as they pleased with respect to infected hides; but why all these tremendous restrictions with respect to the hides of perfectly sound animals? The practice in the metropolis was that on the days when cattle were slaughtered carts went round and took the hides from the slaughtering-houses. The hides were conveyed at once to the tan-yards in Bermondsey, where they were put in pits the very day the beasts were killed, there they were subjected to the influence of well-known disinfecting agencies. Why, his constituents of Bermondsey manufactured no less than 6,000 hides per week, and yet this enormous industry was almost to be paralysed for a most incommensurate purpose. With respect to foreign hides, why not adopt the principle of the Government Bill? Foreign hides came to this country for the purposes of the tan-yards of Bermondsey, and it was quite evident that if this Bill passed into law there would be no oxen in Bermondsey for them to infect.
 MR. HUNT  said, he had no desire to insist on the restriction with respect to hides being extended until the 30th of April. He was content that it should be
 852
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) had introduced a clause allowing hides to be sent by railway without a licence, provided they were carried in covered carts.? This clause would be perfectly inoperative unless a clause was introduced giving permission to persons to send hides along the highways, without a licence, provided that similar precautions were taken. It was no advantage to a man to be allowed to Bend his hides by rail without a licence, if he was compelled to procure a licence before he could send the hides to the station.
 MR. HUNT  said, that an addition which he proposed to move to the 29th clause would remove the difficulty of which the hon. Gentleman complained. After the words in the 29th clause prohibiting the movement of hides and skins on roads he proposed to add the words—
 "Unless the hides shall be in a covered cart or other covered vehicle, or unless the hides, skins, horns, or hoofs are protected from exposure in an open car by a layer of charcoal."
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  feared that the proposed addition to the clause would not be sufficient to allow persons to send hides along the roads without licences.
 MR. BARING  observed, that according to the wording of the clause as it now stood, neither hare skin, rabbit skin, dog skin, nor any other kind of skin could travel except in a covered van.
 MR. HUNT  said, the word "animal" was not at present defined in the Interpretation clause; but he intended that it should hear the same meaning as in the Government Bill. He had no objection to the movement of hides along the road provided they were moved under licence, and were sound hides coming from a healthy district.
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  expressed himself satisfied with the explanation given, provided the clause was altered accordingly.
 MR. BARING  said, it was originally supposed that all hides would carry infection, but Professor Ferguson, of Dublin, discovered a method of preparing sheepskins, which, if adopted, rendered it impossible for them to convey disease. Accordingly, a special Order had been passed to allow skins so prepared to be taken into Ireland; but he did not find among the proposals of the hon. Member any reservation in favour of such skins. The
 853
 MR. HUNT  said, he was perfectly ready to adopt any form of words excepting towns from the operation of the clauses condemned by the hon. Gentleman opposite. The movement of skins through continuous lines of streets could do little harm; but in the country the proceeding was attended with great danger. It would be easy to put in words to prevent the construction alluded to by the Under Secretary. He really must express a hope that hon. Members would not indulge their taste for criticism in discussing the clauses of this Bill. He admitted that on ordinary occasions he enjoyed the sport himself—it was sometimes as good as a rat-hunt—and if there were plenty of time he would ask for nothing better. He asked for no quarter for himself; but as time was of so much importance, he hoped that hon. Members would exercise a little forbearance.
 MR. GRAHAM  said, he felt it due to the hon. Member to express his feeling of the courteous manner in which he wished to meet the views of hon. Members; but this was a point which affected his constituents, and there ought to be an addition to the clause, giving power to an officer of the Customs to certify that hides came from abroad, so as not to bring them within the operation of this clause.
 MR. HUNT  said, he understood that there had just been a communication re-
 854
 MR. BAINES  thanked the hon. Member for the good temper and discretion which he showed in the conduct of this Bill; throughout the debate he seemed to have no desire except for the public good.
 MR. CRAWFORD  wished to know if the hon. Member had any objection to exempt from the provisions of the Bill hides from India, South Africa, and Australia?
 MR. HUNT  said, he had already made such a provision in one of the new clauses. His only anxiety was to secure that the hides came from those countries.
 MR. LOCKE  asked for a definition of the "Metropolis."
 MR. HUNT  said, "land continuously built upon" was sufficiently wide, while it excluded growing districts. He begged to move the postponement of the clause.
 MR. BARING  suggested that this clause also should be postponed.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  remarked that if all the clauses were postponed they would have to begin the Bill over again.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the clause took the whole responsibility of disinfecting the cattle trucks, platforms, and pens from the railway companies and put it upon the Government, and relieved the companies from the whole expense and placed it on the public. He was not disposed to accept a clause which relieved the companies of all the responsibility and expense. He thought the duty of disinfecting their trucks ought to be imposed on the railway companies, and that the Government should have the power of sending inspectors to see that the railway companies properly performed that duty.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, he thought it was not sufficient that the Government inspector alone should have the power of entering railway stations, in order to see to the disinfecting of the cattle trucks. He had himself seen the trucks which had been employed to convey cattle return filled with straw, the lower trusses of which were saturated with the dung and filth left behind by the cattle. He suggested that
 855
 MR. HUNT  said, the clause was faulty as it originally stood, because it would have thrown the expense of cleansing and disinfecting the trucks upon the Government; but in its amended shape it threw the expense on the companies, while at the same time it required the process to be gone through under the superintendence of Government officers. According to the information he had received from all parts of the country, the trucks were very dirty, and not disinfected. The other night the House passed a stringent provision with respect to the transit of cattle by rail; but half the good thus accomplished would be undone if they did not secure the purification of the trucks. A clear period up to the 25th of March was required, during which they should be cleansed and disinfected. That should be done under official supervision. But they must also have some machinery for ascertaining what trucks were in use and where they were. The clause which he proposed to bring up on that subject would prohibit the use of all cattle trucks until they had been disinfected, and would require the companies to make a register of their trucks by number. It also provided that any cattle truck used on a railway should be presumed not to have been cleansed or disinfected until the contrary had been shown by means of the register. That would put the companies to some inconvenience, no doubt; but there was no other mode of securing certainty in that important matter. The companies would state the stations in which the trucks so numbered respectively were standing, the Government officer would see them there, and as soon as they had been disinfected, he would write a certificate stating that such and such trucks at such a place had been disinfected on such a day.
 MR. LOCKE KING  hoped the hon. Gentleman would postpone his clauses till the Committee had had an opportunity of ascertaining their effect.
 MR. HUNT  admitted that, under ordinary circumstances, he might fairly be asked to wait till the Bill had been reprinted; but, considering the urgency of the case, he hoped the Committee would allow him to proceed.
 MR. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  suggested
 856
 MR. AYRTON  asked whether the clause was confined to cattle trucks, or whether it extended to every butcher's premises and every slaughterhouse throughout the kingdom.
 MR. HUNT  said, he thought it highly desirable that the slaughterhouses all over the country should be disinfected. As long as the practice of slaughtering was continued, the infection was kept up; for as soon as the matter which held the infection began to dry, the slaughterhouses moistened it again, and the infection was retained. Sheep-dogs or other canine prowlers carried away the offal and lapped the blood, taking back with them to their owners' yards the means of spreading the contagion. He was willing, however, to deal with the slaughterhouses if desired, through a separate clause. It had been suggested that it would be a laborious task for the Government officers to go all over the kingdom to supervise the disinfection of cattle trucks; but an arrangement might be made by the companies by which all the trucks should be collected at certain stations, for the convenience of the Government officers. It was of primary importance that the cleansing and disinfecting should be officially superintended. When these trucks got into such a filthy state, that something must be done to them, they were sometimes shunted on to sidings with pastures closely abutting on them. The railway officials then with shovels or other implements cleared out the trucks, throwing the filth over the fences into the pastures, whereby the cattle there got infected. Then with reference to the cleansing of the railway trucks, he thought it very undesirable that the railway companies should be left to disinfect them after their own fashion; some provision should be made to insure that the proper disinfecting fluid was used; and the whole should be done under the superintendence of an officer appointed by the Government. Some disinfectants, he was told, would damage the woodwork of the railway trucks; and he had been assured that the system which had been recommended by Professor Gamgee was all that could be desired for cheapness and efficiency. He advised that the trucks should be thoroughly scrubbed with boiling water, then allowed to dry, and lastly washed with a solution of common soda or soda ash and water.
 MR. AYRTON  pointed out an inconsist-
 857
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, the most careful inspection of the trucks was necessary, otherwise it was probable that the cleansing of them would be merely confined to a little whitewashing half-way down them, as had been down to some of the trucks on certain railways, leaving them afterwards like whitened sepulchres.
 MR. LIDDELL  urged that ample time should be given to the railway companies to effect a thorough disinfection of their trucks, as the operation, to be properly carried out, would occupy a considerable period.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  thought that too much importance could not be placed upon this point by the Government. He confessed he was somewhat startled upon hearing his hon. Friend (Mr. Hunt) recommend soda and hot water as the best disinfectant. He (Viscount Cranbourne) did not think that such a thing as that would answer the purposes intended. It appeared to him that the best means of disinfection should be first ascertained, and that having been done, the use of them should be rigorously enforced in central places.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government had been in correspondence with railway companies with reference to the cleansing of their trucks; as to the matter under consideration, he would suggest a clause providing that every railway company or person in the habit of carrying cattle in Great Britain should, before the 25th of March next, thoroughly cleanse and disinfect with lime water or some other efficient means all cattle trucks and cattle pens used by them, and should not place in them any animals before they were so disinfected. He would propose such a clause, because he desired to place the responsibility, in the first instance, upon the railway companies, and not upon the Government, But, at the same time, he would agree to the
 858 "That any officer appointed in writing under the President or Vice President of the Board of Trade, or any inspector appointed by a local authority in the district of such an authority, may enter upon the premises of any such company or persons, and inspect all trucks belonging to such company or persons, and require them or him to cleanse and disinfect them in such a manner as he may direct, and any truck which shall be insufficiently cleansed or disinfected," &c.
 MR. HUNT  said, the Bill was meant to be simply a temporary measure, the operation of which would extend only to the 25th of March, before which time the Government would, he hoped, have passed a general measure. There would, under the circumstances, he thought, be no great difficulty in throwing the duty of inspecting the trucks and seeing that they were properly cleansed and disinfected upon Government officers; especially as those trucks would not be much in use for the next month, and might very easily be collected together by the various railway companies at some particular station. The duty of inspection would, in his opinion, be likely to be much more efficiently performed by persons armed with the authority of the Government than if it were confided to local agents who might not be duly qualified for its discharge.
 MR. LOCKE KING  suggested the postponement of the clause and to bring it up on the Report, as the Committee seemed, as matters stood, to be proceeding very much in the dark.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked, whether the proposed inspection and cleansing were to take place once for all and to be done, or were to be continued? In the latter case, it would be well to consider whether it was desirable to introduce a new principle into our legislation by departing from that laid down in the Local Government Acts, under which the expense of removing a nuisance was levied on those by whom it was caused.
 MR. ACLAND  said, there was no use in arguing the question after the intimation made by the Secretary of State to the effect that he would bring up a clause dealing with it.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  could not see that hon. Members were precluded by that intimation from making such suggestions as they might deem advisable. He should propose that the words "vessels and there appurtenances" should be added after the word "railways."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the hon. Member for Warwickshire raised a different question from that which was under discussion, and which related to the movement of cattle within Great Britain. He was not aware that the Government had any power over foreign vessels.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  observed, that there was a large coasting trade in cattle carried on by steamers belonging to this country; and it was to that class of vessels that he desired particular attention should be paid.
 MR. CARNEGIE  expressed a hope that the railway companies would be made to pay the expense of disinfecting their own cattle trucks.
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he did not think either the proposition of the Home Secretary or that of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire quite satisfactory; but the Committee might go on discussing them, for he disliked the idea of postponing everything.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  stated that one large railway company had issued orders to their officers for the cleansing of their trucks; and that being so, he did not see why other railway companies should not do the same, instead of throwing the expense on the country. He was very much inclined to support the proposition of the Home Secretary.
 MR. HUNT  proposed after the words "any justice," to add the words "parish officer," so as to enable the overseer of a parish, in the absence of any other authority, to require the production of a licence.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  suggested that it would be better to follow the analogy of the Game Act, and enable "any person" to require the production of the licence.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he would beg to call the attention of the hon. Member (Mr. Hunt) to this clause. No provision was made in it for the application of Penalties in Scotland.
 MR. HUNT  understood that the Lord Advocate would prepare a clause for Scotland.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE , seeing that the Lord Advocate was not in his place, begged to move the omission of the words "in England," so that the clause might apply equally to England and Scotland.
 MR. BARING  said, that as the clause stood half the penalties were to go to the informer. He proposed to insert such words as should make the whole of the penalties payable to the county, as in the Cattle Diseases Bill.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, the great obstacle to enforcing the stoppage of traffic was the difficulty of procuring information. The only hope they had of carrying the Bill into effect was to induce the inhabitants of the country to bring offenders to justice, and the best way of doing so was to appeal to the cupidity of informers, so as to meet any local luke-warmness. He therefore trusted the Committee would not alter the clause.
 MR. CARNEGIE  had been informed that it was found impossible to carry out the Orders of the Privy Council until it was publicly announced that half the penalty would go to the informer.
 MR. BARING  proposed, with regard to the word "beast," that the same interpretation should be adopted as in the Cattle Diseases Bill.
 MR. HARDY  remarked that the Government measure gave no interpretation respecting footpaths and bridle roads, and that, consequently, there was a great probability of the regulations being, to a certain extent, evaded.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  stated that
 861
 MR. HUNT  said, that the word "beast" had been selected because it was a singular noun; the word "cattle" was plural, and would be inconvenient. The whole Bill was drawn up in the singular number, and if the hon. Gentleman's suggestion were adopted the Bill would not only be ungrammatical, but as unintelligible as he believed the Government Bill was.
 MR. BARING  said, their object had been to get the Bill into a working shape. The terms "borough" and "county" were used in the present Bill in a different sense from that in which they were employed in the Government measure. If the two Bills, however, were to work at all, they must work upon the same footing. He did not for one moment wish to interfere with the hon. Member's Bill, but he thought it would greatly save the time of the Committee if the hon. Member would withdraw the clause and bring in a fresh one as far as possible in conformity with the measure introduced by the Government.
 MR. HUNT  said, that the words "borough" and "county" were employed in his Bill in the ordinary sense attaching to those terms, while the Government in their measure had bestowed upon them an artificial meaning. He thought that the author of the Bill might be allowed to put his own interpretation upon the words used in the Bill ["No, no!"], and not be compelled to accept the definition placed upon them by its opponents.
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  thought that the word "cattle" might be employed, and that it might be stated in the Bill to mean "cow," "bull," and soon, and to be used to represent both the singular and the plural noun. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Northamptonshire had not hesitated to employ the word in some instances, for he styled the authorities referred to by the Bill as "cattle inspectors" and "cattle officers," not as "beast inspectors" and "beast officers."
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  thought that if the Committee wasted their time over such miserable technicalities the country would hardly give them credit for being actuated by a sincere desire to put a stop to this disease. The word "beast" alone
 862
 MR. ACLAND  contended that there was no intention of impeding the measure; but it was necessary, for the guidance of the magistrates by whom the two Acts were to be put into operation, that they should be brought into uniformity. He would suggest to the hon. Member for Northamptonshire whether it would not be better for him, between then and the following morning, to consult the intelligent officer who was in the habit of assisting the Government in framing their measures, and see if the two Bills could not be brought more into conformity one with the other.
 MR. HUNT  would suggest that the Interpretation clause should be agreed to as it stood, and by the time that the Report was brought up he would see if he could bring the Bill more into harmony with that introduced by the Government—a result which he was very desirous of attaining.
 MR. HUNT  brought up a new clause in lieu of Clause 4 (What Beasts to be deemed sound, what diseased)—
 "For the Purposes of this Act, an Animal shall be deemed sound if and when it is not affected with the Cattle Plague, and has not, within Thirty Days, been in contact with any Animal so affected, and has not within Thirty Days, been in or on any Building or Yard or Field where any Animal so affected has been kept, unless that Building or Yard or Field has been effectually cleansed and disinfected at least Thirty Days previous to the Beast being placed in or on the same."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  asked whether it was intended by the clause that a man should not take out his dogs with him. Would it affect packs of hounds? What did dogs "at large" mean?
 MR. HUNT  said, by "at large" he meant not tied by a chain or held in a leash.
 MR. KNIGHT  proposed to add "without an owner," or "that is not in charge of its owner."
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, that dogs frequently went round to butchers' shops and slaughterhouses, and then to farm-houses.
 VISCOUNT MILTON  expressed his opinion that sheep were likely to carry the disease. Hair and wool were very nearly allied chymically.
 MR. KNIGHT  observed, that it seemed quite certain that sheep did not take the disease.
 MR. DENT  remarked that in his county there had been an almost entire restriction of the moving of sheep, and this had been attended with very great inconvenience.
 MR. LIDDELL  hoped the clause would be withdrawn. The Committee had not been afforded sufficient time to consider it.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  could assure the Committee that in his county very, much inconvenience had been felt in consequence of the restriction of the movement of sheep. This had become an important question, because we must make up by mutton for the loss of beef.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, that the practical effect of his clause would be to facilitate the moving of sheep and get rid of the inconvenience which hon. Members complained of. His object was simply to prevent the persons from moving sheep which had been in contact with diseased cattle. If his clause was added to the Bill all a drover would have to do was to go with his licence to a justice of the district into which he brought sheep and have that licence backed, which he would have no difficulty in doing if the animals had not been brought from a place where they had been in contact with diseased beasts. He had spoken to a great number of farmers on the subject, and they were all in favour of his clause.
 LORD BURGHLEY  admitted the inconvenience of which so many hon. Members had complained; but he felt bound to support the clause, because he believed that sheep carried the disease about the country.
 MR. GEORGE CORNWALL LEGH  suggested that it was not a question as to whether sheep took the disease or did not take it; but one as to whether they would carry it. He was sure that pigs carried it, for he had suffered from pigs being introduced into a neighbour's yard, which had been previously in an infected place. He thought the clause was necessary.
 MR. HUNT  supported the introduction into the Bill of the clause proposed by the hon. Member for Berkshire (Sir Charles Russell). The sheep-pox had broken out very recently in Northamptonshire, and the Government at once issued an Order giving power to local authorities to refuse to allow sheep to be brought without a licence into their districts. In issuing this Order the Government had acted most properly, and the House ought to adopt a similar course by adopting the proposed clause.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the adoption of the proposed clause would cause the greatest inconvenience in Scotland. Flocks of sheep on their way to Edinburgh, or to England, had often to pass through several
 865
 SIR GEORGE GREY  opposed the adoption of the clause, which he thought would have some very inconvenient results.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON , in answer to the remarks of the Member For Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren), said, that the proposed clause was only intended to be in force until the 25th of March, and that before that time flocks of sheep were never moved from place to place in the Highlands of Scotland.
 MR. AYRTON , in moving that the Chairman be ordered to report Progress, asked the hon. Member for Northamptonshire whether he seriously intended to prohibit the removal of all cattle from the place where they might be landed upon importation? He put that question with especial reference to the circumstances of the metropolis.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was anxious, in the case of seaports other than the port of London, to permit cattle to be moved upon their arrival from the place of landing to the nearest slaughterhouse, a distance which he fixed roughly at 500 yards; but on that point he was anxious to consult the views of representatives of those seaports. The Metropolitan Market, however, was six miles in a straight line from the port of London, and as there was no other sea port similarly situated, he was quite aware that a stand-up fight must take place between the metropolitan Members and himself.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he had received representations from two or three of the largest steampacket companies concerned in bringing foreign cattle to the port of London, and he was persuaded that their interests, and the interests of the consumer, would be greatly interfered with by the Bill.
 MR. HUNT  hoped the Motion for reporting Progress would not be pressed. There were two or three clauses which he was anxious to propose, giving power to the cattle owner to prevent trespass on his
 866
 SIR GEORGE GREY  hoped the hon. Member did not intend to devolve upon him the preparation of the abstract. He suggested that the hon. Member should give notice in writing of the exact terms of his clause affecting the metropolis, and that the Bill should be reported with a view to its being printed, thereby enabling Members to see exactly what they had agreed to.
 MR. HUNT  said, he was willing to adopt the suggestion on the understanding that the Bill would be re-committed only as to the now clauses.
 MR. BARING  suggested that the clause should be considered as added to the Bill  pro formâ,
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  inquired when the House could receive accurate Returns of the number of attacks from the cattle plague during the last and preceding week.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Returns were made, not to the Home Office, but to the Privy Council, and he would make inquiry on the subject.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, that some alarm prevailed in the country, it
 867
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the intention of Her Majesty's Government, as I think my hon.
 815
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I apprehend that the proceeding, such as I have indicated it, will be in conformity with the universal practice of the executive Government, enabling the responsible Advisers of the Crown to give that advice which they think most for the public interest. They will, upon their own responsibility, make known that advice to the House of Commons, fully admitting the right of the House to call them to account.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : That alteration has not been effected. With respect to the rest, I must refer my right hon. Friend to the answer I have already given.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I will move on Thursday next that the House resolve itself into Committee to consider a humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will give directions that a Monument be erected in the Collegiate Church of St. Peter, Westminster, to the memory of the late Right honourable Viscount Palmerston, with an inscription expressive of the public admiration and attachment, and of the heavy loss which the country has sustained by his death. I will also move that in the Address we assure Her Majesty that the House will make good the expenses attending the same.
 Committee to consider an humble Address to be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will give directions that a Monument be erected in the Collegiate Church of Saint Peter, Westminster, to the memory of the Right honourable Viscount Palmerston, with an inscription expressive of the Public admiration and attachment, and of the heavy loss which the Country has sustained by his death; and to assure Her Majesty that this House will make good the expenses attending the same, on  Thursday.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS : Sir, I beg earnestly to call the attention of the House to the fact that some kind of legislation, and without further delay, should be adopted with reference to the dwellings of the class that live by labour in our great towns. The condition of these dwellings is becoming every year more disgraceful and dangerous. It is dangerous not merely to those who are without a habitation sufficient for their health and comfort, but it is a danger to those who live near them, and to the community generally, towards whom there is perpetually approaching nearer and nearer the contagion arising from these close dwellings. Every year, within the memory of the present generation, the want has grown greater and more intense. About twenty years ago societies were formed which sought by private enterprize to remedy, or at least to mitigate, the evil. I have not one word to say in depreciation of their motives, or in disparagement of their efforts. On the contrary, I think they are entitled to great credit for their perseverance in
 819 820 821 "Of course, any help will be useful; but Alderman Waterlow's, Mr. Peabody's, Lord Townshend's, or any other scheme will be as nothing unless some systematic, legal, and compulsory Act is passed." "I speak from personal knowledge, and say that
 822 823
 MR. GILPIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, If it is the intention of the Government to re-introduce the Lahore Bishopric Bill during the present Session?
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to tender his thanks to the hon. Member for Finsbury (Mr. M'Cullagh Torrens), for having directed the attention of the House to a subject of such interest and importance.
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, I do not rise to enter into the general question of Reform, as I know that the house is anxious to resume the discussion of the Cattle Plague Bill, but I am anxious to say a few words with reference to the Motion of my hon. Friend, because the measure he proposes is a novelty in this House, though the idea that pervades it has pervaded the writings of great political thinkers. Accustomed as we have been, on the subject of Reform, to
 839 840 841
 MR. COWPER : Sir, in reply to the hon. Member, I have to state that by the Courts
 814
 MR. COWPER  said, the names of the architects chosen to compete for the plans of the new Courts of Justice were Mr. Scott, Mr. Barry, Mr. Street, Mr. Water-house, Mr. Wyatt, and Mr. Hardwicke.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, the Duke of Somerset and the Admiralty have appointed a gentleman as Comptroller and likewise as solicitor of the Greenwich Hospital Estates. That gentleman has for many years been employed as solicitor. He will be paid by a fixed salary of £500 a year as solicitor, and £500 a year as Comptroller—an office which is not liable to superannuation allowance. The gentleman's name is Lethbridge.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : He is to be permitted to follow his own profession.
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, I certainly expected to hear a few words from the Treasury Bench on this subject of basing the franchise on intelligence. Considering what the subject is, it is only due to the House that we should hear some expression of opinion from the Treasury Bench on the proposal of my hon. Friend. I do not think the circumstance that the other side of the House desire to go on at once with the cattle plague is a sufficient excuse for the silence maintained by the Members of the Government. I think, however, that my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer fell into a little irregularity in the beginning of the evening when he pledged himself beforehand that none of the
 842 843 844 845
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, in the absence of his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, he could state that it was intended to proclaim the sea-coast of Louth in order to prevent the importation of arms, but no reason existed for ploclaiming the remainder of the county.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What course Her Majesty's Government intend to pursue relative to the vacant ground at South Kensington, and the erection of a building there; and whether any Bill is to be introduced this Session for the removal of any of the collections now forming part of the British Museum?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he will state the names of the gentlemen appointed to serve on the Committee for the selection of the Architects who are to compete for the new Law Courts; whether the number of Architects is determined, and who is to have the final decision on the merits of the plans; and, whether he will lay upon the table the proceedings of the Royal Commission?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN : Will he be allowed to follow any business?
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether a Comptroller of the Greenwich Hospital Estates has been appointed; and, if so, by whom was such appointment made, and at what salary or mode of remuneration? If such appointment has been made, to ask the name of the gentleman who has been appointed, and whether he is to be allowed to follow
 813
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that the Inspector of Mails in Dublin had made a Report on the subject, and attended a Board meeting of the Ulster Railway Company, at which he requested the Directors to work their line with greater regularity. Since then the Company had got additional engines, and with the exception of the nights of the 7th of January and 4th of February, when some accidents had occurred, there had been no cause of complaint with regard to the night mails. There was no power to impose any penalties.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that as the House was anxious to proceed with the Cattle Plague Bill, he should only say a few words with regard to this subject. The Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman differed from the measure of the Government in this respect, that it gave compulsory
 825
 MR. CLAY  said, although I have no reason to expect that the permission which I am about to ask will be refused to me, yet, as my proposal involves an entirely new principle, I should be wanting in respect to the House if I did not in this first stage of my Bill explain its principle, and in great part its details. I will endeavour to show my gratitude for the patience which I respectfully ask from hon. Members, by compressing into the smallest possible compass that which it is necessary that I should say. In seeking, then, to extend the elective franchise in cities and boroughs in England and Wales, my proposal in no way interferes with any existing franchise, but it contemplates any man of full age, and not otherwise disqualified, but not having a vote by any other title, shall have the right to demand to be examined. This examination I will hereafter describe. On his passing it to the satisfaction of the Commissioners, acting on the rules which they observe in similar Civil Service examinations, he will receive a certificate. This he will present to his town clerk, or other officer in non-corporate boroughs, charged with analogous duties, and he will be entitled to be placed on the register of electors. The words "full age," mean twenty-one years, but if a Committee of this House should think fit to raise the age to twenty-five years, I should see no objection to the change. As it is necessary to provide against a sort of wandering population of electors, I propose that no man can claim to be examined until he has
 826 827 s. 6d, 828 829 830 831 832
 MR. STANSFELD , in reply, said, it was not the intention of the Secretary of State, during the present Session, to re-introduce the Lahore Bishopric Bill.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether directions have been sent by the Home Office to Sir Richard Mayne that the twenty men of the Metropolitan Police appointed to guard the Model Prison at Pentonville should be Englishmen, and whether it is true that this duty is to be confined to men of English birth, and that no Irish constable shall be allowed to do duty there?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he seconded the Motion, and would remind the House that this was no new question. The question was one that had been for several years before the country, and whatever view hon. Members might entertain with regard to the Bill about to be introduced, he was sure that there was not one of them who would not admit that the subject was one that demanded their most serious attention. He did not think the question was second to any that could be brought forward for consideration by that House. What was the condition of the people, not only in this great city, but in the other large towns throughout the Kingdom? It must be obvious to everybody that, in point of fact, there was not a sufficient number of habitations provided for the people, and the greater portion of the dwellings in which they did reside were totally unfitted for the purpose. Many benevolent persons had, no doubt, hitherto stepped forward for the purpose of rendering all the assistance in
 824
 MR. LOWE : Do I understand my right hon. Friend to say that the change will take place without this House having an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon it?
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Why the county and city of Armagh have been proclaimed under the Peace Preservation Act, without the inland portion of the county of Louth, which adjoins the county Armagh to a large extent, being at the same time proclaimed; and whether there is any intention of proclaiming the
 816
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that from information he had received he found that the horses of the Carabineers were not conveyed in cattle trucks. He was informed by the authorities at the Horse Guards that arrangements had been made for the conveyance of troop horses to Ireland in horse boxes, and not in cattle trucks. In consequence of the Question of the hon. Gentleman he had communicated with the authorities of the London and North-Western Railway Company, who had informed him that in case of their having to convey cavalry horses in cattle trucks care would first be taken to disinfect and cleanse them by washing them with chloride of lime, and adopting the necessary precautions in conformity with the circular they had issued to all the managers of their traffic.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I am afraid, Sir, that any estimate that could be furnished of the quantity of corn and meat consumed either now or in any former period during the present century would be very loose and unsatisfactory. We have the Returns of the importations of foreign corn, and they are reliable; but we have no accounts whatever of the quantity of home-grown corn consumed. Indeed, we have no statistics in this country of the extent of land appropriated to different crops. We are taking a cattle census, and if it be true that one-fourth of the cattle are annually slaughtered, we might estimate the consumption of butchers' meat; but I am informed by the Comptroller of the Corn Returns and others who are acquainted with this subject, that no reliable information is to be had from which to furnish such facts as might be laid before Parliament.
 MR. GREGORY : Sir, whatever may be the judgment of the House with regard to the expediency or the practicability of the Bill of my hon. Friend there can be no difference of opinion upon this point—that this is a question deserving the most serious consideration, and one which well warrants a searching discussion in this House. I respond entirely to the words of the hon. Gentleman's speech in which he has expressed an opinion that the sentiments of Her Majesty's Government, so far as they can have formed an opinion up to this moment, should be given in the course of the evening with regard to the proposition of my hon. Friend. The House will bear in mind that this is no effort of mere political dilettantism; that this is not the speech of some new Member anxious to obtain a name for originality and for daring. It is a proposition from a Gentleman who has long been in this House; who represents a large and intelligent constituency; who has himself taken part in almost all the great business of this House for many years; and who has brought to bear upon every question which he has treated an amount of practical good sense and solid judgment which has always obtained for him the attention and respect of the House, Moreover, my hon. Friend has always taken his stand in what I may call the ranks of the most advanced portion of the Liberal party, and therefore no one can throw out the imputation against him that he has made this proposal for the purpose of endeavouring to shelve or
 833 élite 834 primâ facie 835 literati 836 "I know towns where ardent Reformers are afraid of an unqualified suffrage. Good Radicals, the most thorough of their class, have said to me, 'There is a mob in our town (there is in every town), ignorant, selfish, venal, and reckless of principle. Had they voted, our Liberal Members would be unseated at the next election. They would vote against those who seek to raise them.' This is the general feeling in Liberal boroughs. Now there is no plan of a £6 suffrage which selects the worthy and excludes the base. All £6 suffrage is blind, and hence we have Radicals arguing feebly, and fearing much the result of the very measure they plead for. Surely, this is political imbecility." "If we debar a man from the suffrage, the onus of proof rests on us to show that he is incapacitated by some considerations of personal unfitness or political dangers." 837 838 Ape Cœsar Imperator! morituri te salutamus. ad misericordiam
 MR. W. R. GORE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the horses of the Carabineers were moved on their route to Ireland in cattle trucks; and, if so, whether any measures were previously taken to disinfect those trucks from the seeds of the Cattle Plague?
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the attention of the Government has been called to the alleged irregularities which have occurred during the past six months in the running of the night Mails from Dublin to Londonderry, and what measures have been taken to remedy this evil?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the hon. Gentleman had privately given him notice of his intention to put a Question to him relative to a statement that had appeared in one of the morning papers. All he (Sir George Grey) could say was, that the paragraph was without founda-
 817
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : My right hon. Friend has not answered the Question. What I wish to ask is this—has no alteration at the present moment taken place in the charter of the Queen's University? That is done by the Sign Manual of the Sovereign. Has it not been done, will it not he done, without first laying before the House the grounds which the Government have for altering the present system of liberal and united education to one of a sectarian and denominational character?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Will my right hon. Friend say that the charter of the Queen's University will not be altered without being brought under the notice and knowledge of this House?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What changes are contemplated in the charter and constitution of the Queen's University and Queen's Colleges in Ireland, and whether it is the intention of the Government fully to inform the House before proceeding with any measure involving a departure from the present system of University Education in that country?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What amount of information the Government can give respecting the consumption of articles of food, especially corn and meat, at various periods in the present century?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, if his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) had limited his Bill to allowing refreshments to be given to juries after they had retired to consider their verdict he should not have any opposition to offer. The main provision of the Bill, however, was that which related to the power of Judges to discharge juries in criminal cases when they could not agree. It was enough for him to say on that point, to induce the House not to consent to the second reading, that the case of Charlotte Winsor, in which this question was involved, was now pending. It had been argued before the Queen's Bench, who had delivered a very clear judgment, which was generally acquiesced in by the profession. At the same time the Attorney General had thought fit, considering the importance of the case, and also a certain decision of the Irish Judges, which was contended to be not in accordance with that of the Queen's Bench, to allow a writ of error by which the case would go before the Exchequer Chamber. If that Chamber affirmed the decision of the Queen's Bench, there would be no ambiguity whatever as to law for the future; the law would be as clearly settled by it as it could possibly be by any words that could be introduced into an Act of Parliament. It sometimes happened that in endeavouring to clear up subjects we only obscured them. When there was a matter of law or practice clearly settled further legislation was not only unnecessary but mischievous, because doubts sometimes arose which did not arise before. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Baronet upon the desirability of codifying our law, but by that he understood codification of legal principles. He was not one of those who thought that it was desirable or possible to codify the practice of the courts, for that practice must adapt itself to a great variety of circumstances which no human prescience could foresee. Many provisions of the Bill related to matters of practice, about which there was no difficulty whatever. There was no doubt that refreshment might be allowed to juries before they retired, and there was no necessity to legislate upon that point. It was also perfectly clear that a Judge could discharge a jury in consequence of the illness of a witness, his own illness, or any unavoidable accident happening during the trial, such as the court-house being on fire. But while the Bill appeared to hamper the discretion
 878 v. status quo
 MR. NEATE  said, he thought the hon. and learned Member had made out a good case and did not want to encumber him with help; but he would refer to the practice of the French Courts with respect to allowing refreshment to jurors. Some time ago he was present at the hearing of a remarkable case, when the jury, at three o'clock, expressed a wish to retire to dine. The Judge offered them an hour, but they asked for two hours, and were allowed that time. He begged to second the Motion.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  called attention to what he considered the hardship of compelling persons to give their services as jurors without any compensation for their loss of time, while witnesses and every other person connected with the trial were allowed their expenses. At ordinary sessions and assizes there were as many as four sets of jurors called upon to give their services, and it was often done at the greatest possible inconvenience. He recommended the Home Secretary to remedy this grievance, whether anything was to be done by legislation or not.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, the Bill was divided into two parts—one which related to keeping jurors together during the trial; the other with respect to discharging them absolutely. With respect to the first part the hon. and learned Baronet (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) proposed to allow an absolute discretion to the Judge, whoever he might be, whether he were one of the chief Judges of the land, a recorder, or a chairman of quarter sessions. Now, that seemed to be to him to be giving to the Judges a power which they had no more information upon or proper power for exercising than any other person in Court. The case of discharging juries was quite different. But with respect to keeping juries together there might be circumstances wholly unknown to the Judge which would make it most improper to allow him the exercise of any discretion. For instance, there might be some party feeling of which the Judge might know nothing, and if he allowed the jury to separate during the trial the ends of justice might be seriously interfered with. No practical hardship whatever arose from keeping the jury together during the period of trial. The hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) seemed to think that the Judge had no power to allow juries refreshment before they were locked up. That was not so, although he had never heard of a jury of Englishmen asking for two hours for that purpose. In France, however, where they had better dinners, the juries might be anxious to
 876 v.
 MR. GEORGE  thought it strange that
 879 sub judice.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  thought the Bill so far as it was declaratory was unnecessary, and so far as it was new it involved a most mischievous and dangerous precedent. If the Bill were passed the effect in Ireland would be, that the separation of a jury in a case involving party considerations would lead to its being tried out of the jury-box; and, therefore, a more mischievous innovation could not be proposed. No doubt the proposal was qualified by leaving much to the discretion of the Judge; but in such a case he would not leave the matter to a Judge's discretion. When a prisoner had once been put upon his deliverance, if he were not convicted, he had a right to be discharged, and it would be a most monstrous injustice if the Crown were allowed in such cases to adjourn the trial to procure fresh evidence. He believed legislation in this respect to be altogether unnecessary, and being unnecessary ought not to be encouraged, and if it were once admitted on the ground of difference among Judges, the House would have a busy time of it. The question of refreshment was a comparatively unimportant one, for a Judge had ample power to discharge a jury when he considered it unreasonable to detain them longer. He called upon the Solicitor General to oppose the postponement of a trial after a prisoner had once been given in charge of a jury.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that owing to the short notice that had been given him, he had been unable to look into the matter so fully as he could have wished. The portion of railway referred to was opened in 1839, before the Board of Trade had jurisdiction or the power of inspection. He was not aware, however, that any representations had been made recently by the Government inspectors, but full inquiry should be made, and he would give the House all the information he possessed.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to recommend the appointment of a day for National Fast and Humiliation in consequence of the national calamity of the Cattle Plague?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in moving the second reading of the Bill to codify and amend the Law in relation to the keeping together and discharge of Juries on the trial of Criminal Cases, said, he hoped to be able to show to the House sufficient grounds to induce them to agree to the Motion. Public attention had been recently called to the question of the discharging or the keeping together of criminal juries by the recent case of Charlotte Winsor, which was still pending in our courts, which would not be affected by this Bill. He had introduced a Bill similar to the one now before the House last Session, before the case of Charlotte Winsor occurred; but that measure he
 869 870 871 v. "There is no authority for that [allowing the jury refreshment]; and, indeed, the authorities are rather the other way. The passage in  Doctor and Student 872 "The hungry jurors soon the verdict sign, And wretches hang that jurymen may dine." . "We are dealing here not with one of those fundamental principles which lie at the very basis of our system of criminal jurisprudence—such as the maxim that the Judges shall decide questions of law, and juries questions of fact, or that the verdict of a jury should be unanimous; but we are dealing with a mere matter of practice which has fluctuated at various times, and perhaps at present may not be considered quite settled." v. 873 874
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he would consent to postpone the second reading, as had been suggested by the hon. Member for Oxford University. He would put it off to the 18th of April.
 MR. WATKIN  said, that addressing
 875 primâ facie
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the opinion of the Government on this subject is distinctly expressed in the letter which, in the name of the Government, I addressed to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and which has been laid before Parliament. The Government still retain that opinion. If a day of humiliation were to be appointed by the authority of the Queen in Council, its observation must be enjoined on the whole kingdom, including Ireland. The course which appears to Her Majesty's
 868
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been directed by the Government Inspectors of Railways to the alarming condition of several of the arches of the viaduct spanning the Tame Valley, near Tamworth, on the Midland line of Railway, and what steps have been taken by the Board of Trade in the matter, with a view to the protection of life and property? He believed that three of the arches in the centre of the viaduct had given way.
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, he thought the proposal of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets was a reasonable one. This was not purely a City question, but one affecting the whole of the metropolis. Nor was it simply a measure relating to omnibuses, as under its provisions no person who drove a two-horse carriage would be allowed, unless the carriage were altered, to take it into the City.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether he is prepared to state what steps will be taken by Government in consequence of the Report of the Second Commission on the Grievances of Indian Officers?
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would now beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether it is intended to transfer the Straits Settlements from the Indian to the Colonial Department, or whether that project has been definitively abandoned?
 MR. PERRAND  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If the Secretary of State for the Home De-
 898
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If the Reports of the Veterinary Department relating to the Cattle Plague can specify in more detail the Returns of the cattle attacked, killed, or died; whether cows, oxen, or calves?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that up to the present time the Reports had not distinguished between oxen, cows, I and calves. But for the future the duty of sending in those Returns would be intrusted to the local authorities, who would be required to make them to the Privy Council in such form and at such time as they might think fit. He could see no objection, but, on the contrary, great advantage, in adopting the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman,
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  replied, that he had read the Report, and the passage to which the hon. Baronet had refered was this—
 "The sheep affected by scab or  variola ovina "variola ovina" variola ovina variola ovina
 MR. BUXTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he has reason to believe that the alleged Official Report of Mr. Gordon's trial, which has been published in England, may be received as an authentic copy of the proceedings?
 MR. BRIGHT : I should like to ask a Question bearing upon this subject, which, if the right hon. Gentleman cannot answer to-night, perhaps he will answer to-morrow. The question is this—Would he be willing to lay upon the table of the House the Despatches received at the War Department, and at the Admiralty, from officers in those services connected with the recent transactions in Jamaica? I presume they must have arrived in this country; and perhaps the Government and the right hon. Gentleman will have no objection to let the House and the country be fully informed respecting them.
 MR. BRIGHT : Then I will ask the Question another evening.
 MR. BARING  said, he had received the note which the noble Lord addressed to him only a few minutes ago, and therefore he could not answer his questions. All he could say was this. His right hon. Friend the Secretary of State, immediately after the passing of the Act, desired a letter to be written to the Queen's printer, urging the extreme importance of circulating the Act with the least possible delay among the local authorities all over the country. All the information that he had received was that this Act had been circulated among the local authorities of counties yesterday, and to-day copies would be circulated among the local authorities of boroughs.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  stated, that although by the ordinary law the Commissioners could not meet without ten day's notice, he intended to move the insertion of a clause in the Bill of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), which would obviate the inconvenience, and allow the Commissioners to meet immediately.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Dodson—You have read from the Chair two Messages from Her Majesty, and separate Resolutions will be proposed with respect to each of those Messages, but the observations I have to make, which I hope will not long detain the Committee, may well include the subject of each Message. The general rules and considerations which apply to Messages of this kind, and the course which the House is invited to take in considering them, are the same in respect to all members of the Royal Family. The House and the public are generally aware of the principles upon which the subject—which in other coun-
 903 904 905 906 That the annual sum of Six Thousand Pounds be granted to Her Majesty, out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain and Ireland, the said Annuity to be settled on Her Royal Highness the Princess Helena Augusta Victoria for her life, in such manner as Her Majesty shall think proper, and to commence from the date of the Marriage of Her Royal Highness with Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein Sonderbourg-Augustenburg,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  moved the second Resolution—
 That the Annual sum of Fifteen Thousand Pounds be granted to Her Majesty, out of the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain and Ireland, the said Annuity to be settled on his Royal Highness Prince Alfred Ernest Albert for his life, in such manner as Her Majesty shall think proper, and to commence from the date of the coming of age of His Royal Highness.
 MR. HADFIFLD  said, he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would inform the House whether it was true, as was stated on the authority of a Member of the late Jamaica House of Assembly, that the population of the island—about equal to that of Sheffield—was taxed to the amount of £45,000 per year for the maintenance of an ecclesiastical establishment to which not more than one-eighth of the people belong. If the statement were true, he asked from the Government an explanation of their intentions for the future. Was this canker on the prosperity of the island to continue? Was £45,000, or any sum, to be exacted from the people to support a Church to which they did not belong? If so, the island would never be happy. This state of things was worse even than that which existed in Ireland, for in Ireland the Established Church was maintained by the property of the country, whereas in Jamaica it was supported out of taxes levied for that purpose. It was impossible to expect the great majority of the people of Jamaica to submit to a tax so unfairly proportioned,
 MR. BUXTON  said he should not remark on the singular and strange part which the hon. and gallant Member (Colonel
 928
 MR. BARING  trusted that his hon. Friend would withdraw the addition, and allow it to come up on the Report.
 MR. BARING  said, he felt bound to oppose the insertion of the proposed words unless they were brought forward for discussion upon the Report. Penalties like that of thirty days' hard labour could not be imposed upon persons without due consideration.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he hoped to have the clauses applicable to Scotland ready for delivery that night.
 MR. BARING  said, a number of Amendments and new clauses had been put upon the paper only that morning, to which he had not been able to give more than a casual and imperfect consideration. He must, therefore, distinctly reserve, on behalf of his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary, his right to raise any question on the Report.
 MR. BARING  objected to the clause in its present form.
 MR. CUMMING-BRTJCE  hoped the clause would be allowed to remain in the Bill.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  thought no difficulty would arise as to the payment of the inspectors to be appointed under this clause. In his opinion the scope of the clause might be extended with advantage; for if cow-sheds and large dairies were prohibited in large towns it would be a good step.
 MR. PACKE  said, that it was true that the passing of the clause might injure some private interests, but they were not there to consider private interests, but were there to see what they could do to check the progress of the cattle plague. They all knew that the disease had been first imported into this country from abroad, and there was no better way of checking the spread of the disease than the adoption of the clause now before them, which would effectually prevent diseased cattle coming into the country from abroad. It was impossible by the adoption of any precaution to discover whether animals coming from abroad were sound or not. He had known cases in which the very best judges of cattle bought animals as sound which afterwards turned out to have been suffering from the plague at the time of their purchase into the country. Whether that interfered with the trade or not they knew very well that the safety of our whole herds depended upon it, and the farmers and graziers of the country were perfectly alive to that, and would do anything to prevent the importation of the disease into the country. Unless they did something to check the passage of the disease through the country they would do very little good at all.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  feared the last speaker had totally misapprehended the motive of those whom he opposed. They had no desire to stop the importation of live cattle to London. On the contrary, they wished to have as much foreign meat as possible, provided it could be brought without fear of infecting the cattle of this country afresh. The hon. Members for the metropolis seemed to consider the interests of the metropolis the major point, and the stoppage of the cattle plague the minor point. But that House had to consider, not whether or not they should stop the importation of foreign cattle, but what means they could devise to prevent the propagation of the disease. With respect to the first point, he believed they were agreed that the nearer the meat was brought to the consumer the easier the offal could be conveyed away, and the nearer a place for the disposal of the hides was to the market the better. The site in the neighbourhood of the Victoria Docks answered all these requirements most admirably. Near the large tract of land spoken of—and it was of little value—
 947 948
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, it would not be competent for the hon. Member to propose it at the present stage.
 MR. BARING  pointed out that the great difficulties attending the clause were demonstrated by the fact that it had been four times modified, and that the hon. Mover had intimated a probability that coming telegrams might show the necessity of still farther alterations. He acquitted the hon. Gentleman opposite who raised this question of any intention to raise the question of protection. He did not believe that any man would divide the interest of England and Ireland in this matter, and the effect of the clause was to throw the same obstructions in the way of the cattle trade with Ireland and foreign countries. Looking at the clause, he should say that it was both unnecessary and im-
 949
 MR. AYBTON  said, that Glasgow would be dealt with as favourably by his proposal as any other large town.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  concurred with the right hon. Gentleman so far as to admit that there had been a considerable waste of time that evening in discussing very trifling matters; but he warned him that he was losing a most valuable opportunity if he did not undertake to introduce such a measure as would guard this country against the recurrence of the cattle plague. In Prussia a perpetual war was maintained against the disease from one end of the year to the other; and now that railways brought us into constant communication with Hungary and other places which seemed to be permanent seats of the disease, it was absolutely necessary that the system of traffic in foreign cattle should be placed on a satisfactory footing, with a view to ward off, as far as possible, future danger.
 MR. BARING  understood his hon. Friend opposite to hold the opinion that the necessities of farmers were such that it was essential that stock should move about the country as early as the 25th of March, and he proposed clauses carrying out that view, He had expected from his hon. Friend something more definite as to what degree of relaxation was necessary for the farming interest after the 25th of March.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  was afraid when the Bill reached the other House with such a clause it would appear they had almost spent much of their time in vain. He hoped something would be done to make the Bill rather more worthy of all the pains they had taken with it.
 MR. BARING  said, that some substantial person should be made responsible for the granting of these certificates, for the door would be open to gross fraud if the power were vested in any parish officer.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : With reference to this grant I am not going to make any objection, because I believe I only express the unanimous feeling not only of ourselves, but of our constituents when I say that we are always glad when this House can do anything that contributes to the comfort and happiness of Her Majesty. The Chancellor of the Exchequer has, however, referred, in vague phraseology, to certain contingencies which may arise in reference to this annuity, and which, I think, were not quite understood or appreciated by the House. My impression is that one of the contingencies to which he referred, although he did not expressly say so, was the circumstance that the principality of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha is settled upon Prince Alfred, and that he is at any rate the heir presumptive of that sovereignty. The right hon. Gentleman did not explain the nature of the conditions he proposed to make if that contingency occurred in
 908
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  proposed to add at end of this clause a section placing the inspection of cowhouses, &c, and cattle-sheds in burghs and populous places in Scotland under the Commissioners appointed under the "Police and Improvement Scotland Act."
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  regarded the clause as the most valuable part of the whole Bill. He hoped that in future sanatory regulations with respect to cattle would be more strictly enforced.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  thought that the Amendment proposed by the hon. Baronet (Sir Andrew Agnew) was very important. There was a case within his own knowledge where a drover had bought some cattle which proved to be diseased, and turned these beasts into a field on a farm without the occupier's permission. The consequence was, that the cattle on the farm had become infected, and the farmer had suffered a severe loss. Such acts required to be stopped by severe punishments.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to put a Question, of which he had given private notice, and it would be desirable to say a few words first in explanation. The facts were these. He received a letter yesterday morning from an influential constituent asking him to obtain a copy of the Cattle Diseases Act. He was not able, however, to get a copy yesterday; but in  The Times The Times
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to make a few remarks with respect to this measure, which, though it had been proceeded with in the ordinary course as a Private Bill, was essentially of a public character. He thought, therefore, that the House ought not to treat it as a mere private measure. According to the Standing Orders it was requisite that a person should have a definite and special interest before he could be heard in opposition to a Private Bill. The consequence of this rule was, that while a measure might affect everybody, nobody was in a position to resist it. This Bill, therefore, would, he believed, pass as an unopposed. Bill, for as far as he was aware no person would have the requisite  locus standi 893
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had merely wished to point out the fact that the clause did not state how the inspectors were to be remunerated. He might also remark that in many towns there were no persons who answered to the description of magistrates of boroughs, except the police magistrates, within whose functions the appointment of cattle inspectors could scarcely be intended to come.
 MR. AYRTON  drew attention to the fact that the clause made no provision for the payment of the inspectors to be appointed under it.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), as well as one or two friends who were supporting him, appeared to be very jealous of any one knowing anything about the cattle plague. He (Mr. Ayrton) never had pretended to any special knowledge of the subject. He had intervened once or twice on the general principles of legislation, and he thought that on each occasion of his intervention the hon. Member admitted he
 941 942 943 944 945
 MR. AYRTON  replied that he meant the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Board of Works, not the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Police.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would not object to the second reading of the clause, but meant immediately afterwards to move an Amendment in it. If they did not pass the clause, there could be no movement of cattle at all in the streets of London. ["No!"] He maintained that, having already passed one Bill allowing such movement, if they now passed another Bill saying there was to be no such movement
 950
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he wished to put in a plea that the monument should be worthy of the great man whom it commemorated, and of the noble pile in which it was to stand. The allegories and monstrosities which pleased our ancestors now palled upon our taste. The present was the time to show that a monument to a great man in Westminster Abbey might be a memorial of the man, and yet not an eye-sore or a disfigurement to the grand building in which it should be placed. Now was the time for the Government to show that the sculptor's art does not consist in allegories, clouds, nymphs, and cupids. Let the work be worthy of the age in which we affect such superiority to our ancestors.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have to make an apology to the House for a strange error on my part. I mentioned three precedents, but I entirely omitted to refer to the precedent of Sir Robert Peel, who is a distinguished example, as he, like Lord Palmerston, had long been Prime Minister of this country.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Dodson—I rise, Sir, for the purpose of placing in your hands the Resolution of which I have given notice—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will give directions that a Monument be erected in the Collegiate Church of Saint Peter, Westminster, to the memory of the Right honourable Viscount Palmerston, with an inscription expressive of the Public admiration and attachment, and of the heavy loss which the Country has sustained by his death; and to assure Her Majesty that this House will make good the expenses attending the same." 911 912 913 914 Æneid "Quos ego—sed motos præstat componere fluctus." 915 916 That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty will give directions that a Monument be erected in the Collegiate Church of Saint Peter, Westminster, to the memory of the Right honourable Viscount Palmerston, with an inscription expressive of the Public admiration and attachment, and of the heavy loss which the Country has sustained by his death; and to assure Her Majesty that this House will make good the expenses attending the same.
 MR. DISRAELI : I had hoped, Sir, that this Motion might have been seconded by some one who had the honour of sharing the private friendship of Lord Palmerston, and at the same time his political confidence. But as no one has risen, I cannot without great reluctance permit a proposal of this character to pass in absolute silence in this House, as if we on these Benches did not join in the Address to the Crown and the vote to which we are asked to assent with entire cordiality. Whatever differences of opinion there may be on political questions, the memory of sixty years of public service—always distinguished, sometimes illustrious—cannot be allowed to be cherished merely by an admiring or even a grateful country. It is under such circumstances most fitting and most proper that in the chief sanctuary of the realm there should be some outward and visible sign to preserve the memory of a statesman of whom it may be said that he
 917
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In answer to the Question of my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, I wish to call his attention to the terms of the Resolution, that the annual sum specified
 "Be granted to Her Majesty, to be settled upon his Royal Highness Prince Alfred Ernest Albert, in such manner as Her Majesty may think proper." 909
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise to second what I believe to be the judicious and well-considered proposition of the Ministry. I think that the Chancellor of the Exchequer did right in recalling to the recollection of the House, and the country, the conditions under which Her Majesty at her accession relinquished her power over the large estates of the Crown, At the time when the Civil List Act was passed I confess that I had very great doubts as to the policy of that measure, because it occurred to me that when the time arrived that appeals to Parliament by the Crown of this character had to be made, the circumstances under which the original Civil List Act was passed would be forgotten, that Her Majesty would be appealing to a new generation, and the whole character of the Royal claim might be subject to great misinterpretation. Therefore, I think it
 907
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, we should be in constant danger of having the plague renewed throughout the country, even though we should be so fortunate as to get rid of it for the present, unless some means were taken to prevent the intermixture in the markets adjoining the various ports of the cattle driven to them for sale with those imported from abroad. The danger of such intermixture was especially great now, owing to the ramifications of Continental railways extending in those districts in which the disease
 951
 MR. NEWDEGATE  asked, whether the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets meant, in speaking of the limits of the metropolis, to take in a radius of twelve miles from the General Post Office?
 MR. M'LAREN  said the clause was very-important. Of 1,100 cows in the city of Edinburgh 600 had died of the cattle plague, which had spread with amazing rapidity in consequence of the imperfect accommodation provided in that city. He hoped that the power given by this clause to the magistrates to remedy the state of things to which he had referred would not be taken away. There was no difficulty whatever in reference to the payment of the inspectors, as the officers at present in the employ of the magistrates would be able to fulfil the duties imposed by the clause, or in case of any difficulty the magistrates themselves might act as inspectors.
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, I am glad-notwithstanding the little episode to which we have just listened—it appears to be the opinion of the House that we are acting wisely in avoiding discussion with reference to the late proceedings in Jamaica. In answering the appeal made by my right hon. Friend opposite (Sir John Pakington) that we should proceed with the Bill without reference to the general question, it is only necessary I should say, that as has been most handsomely admitted by my right hon. Friend, the course we have been compelled to take was, upon the whole, the only course open to us. I have great pleasure in stating that the construction he has put upon that course, in regard to the motives of the Government, is the true and right construction. Nothing was further from our intention than in the smallest degree to prejudge the case on either side; and I am bound to say that I can conceive no conduct more unworthy than ours would have been if we had sent the Governor before the Royal Commission with any prejudgment expressed by us with regard to any portion of his conduct. Perhaps I may be permitted to read the concluding paragraph of the despatch in which I conveyed to Governor Eyre the views of Her Majesty's Government. In the early portion of the despatch we stated that an inquiry must take place; and that, if it was to be conducted fully and impartially, it must be conducted by independent persons who had themselves taken no part in the proceedings. If we consider the safety of the colony, it was manifest that that safety might be endangered by an inquiry injudiciously conducted. If we consider the efficiency of the inquiry, and the confidence which it ought to inspire in the general community, whether in Jamaica or in this country, it is manifest that it must be conducted by independent persons. The Government rightly thought that it was impossible to hold the Governor responsible
 925 "In conclusion, I will only repeat on the part of Her Majesty's Government that, while we feel it to be our imperative duty to institute this inquiry, we desire by every means in our power to guard against in any way prejudging its result. Our earnest hope is that the result will he to satisfy us on the points on which it is necessary for us to be satisfied, and at the same time to exhibit the conduct of those whose duty has compelled them to take part in those proceedings, and to whom the suppression of the outbreak is due, in a light consistent with their position and character, and especially, in your own case, with that high character for courage and humanity for which you have always been distinguished." 926
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that the project had not been definitively abandoned, but the Government had not been able to settle the conditions on which it was to be carried into effect. The question of military defence was still under the consideration of the War Department, and, until that had been settled, the question of the charge upon the Imperial Exchequer could not be determined.
 MR. CARDWELL :—The despatches which I have laid upon the table are those which have passed between me and the Governor of Jamaica. With regard to the Question which the hon. Gentleman has put, it certainly requires notice, and
 901
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the authentic report of the proceedings on Mr. Gordon's trial, with many other documents, sent by Mr. Eyre to Sir Henry Storks, will form part of the subject-matter of inquiry by the Commission. No copy of those proceedings has reached me, and of course it is not in my power to express any opinion with respect to them.
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, that as far as he knew, it was the unanimous opinion of Scotch Members that the clause should be adopted.
 MR. DOULTON  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he is aware of inclosures now proceeding in Epping Forest to the extent of many hundred acres, especially near Loughton, Woodford, and Epping; whether he is aware that Lord Cowley has already inclosed nearly 300 acres since the announcement was made of the intentions of Her Majesty's Government in reference to open spaces; whether the Crown has any rights over the land so inclosed, or, if not, the rate per acre at which the Crown's forestal rights have been purchased; and whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to take any steps to prevent any further inclosures, pending the introduction and passing of the Bill promised to be introduced early this Session?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he wished to ask whether this annuity would be alienable? Would it be in the power of the Prince to transfer it, or charge it in any way whatever? Of course, he wished the Prince to have the sole personal enjoyment of the annuity.
 MR. HUNT  consented to its omission.
 MR. HUNT  must say he trusted that the way in which they had received at the hands of his hon. Friend, during the passage of the Government Bill through Committee, several clauses which were in manuscript only would form some sort of precedent for the spirit in which his own clauses would be received by the Committee.
 MR. HUNT  hoped they would have no clauses proposed on the Report, and entreated the Committee to dispose that evening of all the matters in dispute, in order that when they came to the Report there might be nothing left to be done but to make such verbal alterations as would render the language of the Bill clear.
 MR. HUNT  said, that he had not introduced the clause, nor did he give it his approval.
 MR. HUNT  explained that when he ex-
 930
 MR. HUNT  suggested, that the object in view might be attained by adding to the end of the 28th clause words to the effect that any person wilfully driving or allowing any beast under his charge to be driven or to stray into any field that was sufficiently fenced, without the consent of the owner, should be deemed to have moved such beast in contravention of the Act. In that way the offender would be brought under the general penalties of the Bill.
 MR. HUNT  said, the discussion of the clause he was now about to move would probably occupy more time than any other clause which had been taken into consideration during the evening. This clause related to imported beasts; and the principle upon which it was based was that imported beasts should, if possible, be slaughtered at the place of landing, or, if that were wholly impossible from the circumstances of any port, that they should be taken to the nearest slaughterhouse, there to be slaughtered, or to lairs adjacent, where they should remain until they were slaughtered; and that under no circumstances whatever should they be taken to any market or fair. That was the principle on which he had endeavoured to frame the clause. He had originally proposed that there should be a power of moving cattle to a distance "not exceeding 500 yards" from the port. At that' time, however, he was unable to say whether that would be a sufficient distance in the case of all the ports; but he had since taken care to ascertain the circumstances of every port in reference to this matter. As far as he knew, the clause he had put on the paper must be amended in certain
 933 "Any live beast landed from a vessel at any port, if sound, may, notwithstanding anything in this Act, be moved on a highway to a slaughterhouse, or to any lair, yard, or building adjacent to a slaughterhouse near the place of landing for slaughter; but this enactment shall not authorize the moving of any beast on a highway in any case beyond the district of the local authority within whose district is the port of landing, or for a greater distance than one mile even within those limits." 934 935 936 937 938 939 940
 MR. HUNT  said, he had brought in a Bill which was to continue in operation up to a certain time, and in the interval he hoped the Government would give their consideration to the subject. Between this and the 25th of March it would be quite possible to bring in a Bill to continue the provisions of this Act, or to improve upon them.
 MR. HUNT  said, he could understand the disappointment of hon. Gentlemen op-
 953
 MR. HUNT  said, he should have no objection to add the words, "Parish officers being ratepayers to a certain extent or being owners of cattle."
 MR. HUNT  accepted the suggestion, which was about the only one he had heard from the other side of the House.
 MR. HUNT  thought a plan which required neighbouring farmers to go on to premises to inspect cattle would be objectionable, as being likely to propagate infection.
 MR. LEEMAN  suggested that the local authorities, for the purposes of this clause,
 932
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he thought that the public would be disappointed if all the provisions of this Bill, which had been so carefully considered, should come to an end on the 24th of March. The subject was one which ought to be taken up and dealt with by the Home Office.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  stated that he had, in common with other Members of the House, received a very extraordinary epistle from one of its Members, a Gentleman whose acquaintance he had never had the honour of making, and to whom he had never spoken. Whether it was Parliamentary to characterize the conduct of the hon. Member by the phrase an "unwarrantable liberty," he did not know, but would, if the Speaker should intimate that it was not, apply a more mitigated expression to it. He would take the liberty of reading the letter which had been addressed to him by the hon. Member for Surrey—
 "At the Conservative dinner at Leeds you attacked those who had denounced the doings in Jamaica in very strong terms. I hope you will not shrink from making the same charges in the House of Commons face to face with us. Your speech will, I believe, be alluded to." "He wished to make one or two observations with regard to the Jamaica question. Was there ever anything in this world so disreputable as the conduct of certain parties? Let them take the facts as they stood. An insurrection, planned years ago, broke out before all the plans were
 923 Colonel Edwards 924
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, the reply of the Government to the first Question of the hon. Member is that the Department of Woods is not aware of any inclosures now going on at Epping, except within those portions of the forest the forestal rights of the Crown over which have been purchased by individuals. The Government have no information of what is being done on private property, with which they have no concern. The answer to the second Question is, that it is very probable Lord Cowley may have inclosed a certain number of acres—assuming that his is the property—certain rights in respect to which were purchased by Lord Mornington some years ago. As to the remainder of the Question and the rent per acre, all the particulars were laid before Parliament, I think, in 1864. I believe the forestal rights over particular land in question, if it be the land which I suppose it to be, were purchased at between £4 and £5 per acre. In answer to the last Question, I have to state that, with respect to land, the forestal rights over which have been purchased by private individuals, Government has no intention and no power to interfere. With respect to land, the forestal rights over which have not been purchased, the Government is in this position. Two Committees have inquired into the subject, one in 1863 and the other in 1865. The recommendation of the first Committee was as follows:—
 "Two courses presented themselves to the Committee as applicable to the remaining portion of Waltham Forest; one is, to discontinue the sale of the forestal rights of the Crown, vigilantly
 897 "Your Committee entirely concur in the first alternative presented by the Report of 1863, and apply it to all Royal forests within the metropolitan area—namely, 'that the forestal rights of the Crown should be vigilantly maintained, without regard to the question of cost, for the purpose of preventing all future inclosures, and to preserve the forest in its present extent and wild uninclosed condition.'"
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the correspondence was not concluded, and it was unusual to lay incomplete correspondence on the table. When the proposal of the Government is before the House, if the hon. Member repeats his Question as to the correspondence, no doubt a satisfactory answer will be given.
 MR. CHILDERS , in reply, said, it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill this Session on the subject. The special object of the Bill would be to transfer to the Department of the Board of Trade all the duties at present imposed by various Acts of Parliament on the Controller General of the Exchequer, and to place on a more satisfactory footing the custody of our standards.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it would have nothing to do with the coinage.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that every one who took an interest in the affairs of Jamaica must feel thankful to the Colonial Secretary for bringing in this Bill. There were great differences of opinion in re-gard to the unhappy event in the island, but he was glad that all parties were now disposed to hold their judgments in abeyance until the report of the Commission was received. The late Assembly of Jamaica was a body which really commanded the respect of no one, and therefore no one regretted its abolition. During the thirty years of its existence it had grossly mismanaged the affairs of the island, and it had failed to introduce any measures adapted to the state of society as changed by negro emancipation. The only good law the Assembly passed was that by which it abolished itself. The Bill now before the House simply affirmed what the Assembly had done. While he heartily approved the Bill, he must say that the period of three years was too short to make an experiment upon the island. He hoped the Bill would not be so limited. Jamaica required, among
 922
 MR. LAMONT  said, he was intimately acquainted with the West India Islands, and he felt convinced that the Government which existed in Trinidad—consisting of a Governor and a Council of nominated men—was infinitely preferable to that absurd burlesque of the British Constitution which existed in times past, but was now perishing in Jamaica.
 MR. STANSFELD  replied that he could only say that the very difficult and complicated matter to which the Question of the noble Lord referred, had met with the earliest and most earnest attention of the Secretary of State; but it was, of course, impossible to state the conclusions at which he had not yet arrived, nor was it even possible to name a day on which such a statement could be made, but he might assure the House that his noble Friend (Earl de Grey) would give his earnest and continuous attention to the subject. The House would not begrudge the time necessary to arrive at a conclusion, considering the importance of coming to one which should, if possible, be final, and put a stop to discussion on a vexed question.
 MR. SPEAKER : I can add some information on this subject to that which has just been given. The noble Lord communicated with me since the House met. I sent for the chief officer in the
 902
 MR. LOCKE  said, that some of his constituents had represented to him that if a particular clause in this Bill passed, their trade would be entirely put an end to. He believed that under the clause relating to splinter bars no private carriage could go into the City and pull up at a shop without being liable to be taken into custody by a policeman and carried off to the greenyard, or some place of that sort. He hoped that the House would accede to the proposal of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets, and allow a Committee, composed of persons who were interested in the question, to take into consideration the traffic, not only of the City, but of the whole metropolis.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home De-
 900
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he thought that any opposition to the principle of this Bill would be very unreasonable, for on no subject had there been so many complaints of late as the difficulty of moving in vehicles or on foot through the City. He would not refer to the circumstances out of which that inconvenience had arisen, but he might mention that one cause was the Railway Stations by which the City was surrounded. The City was now actually impassible at some hours of the day. It was true that an Act had been passed for the regulation of the traffic, but some of its provisions had proved to be impracticable, and now, when the City asked Parliament to place further power in their hands, the first thing they met with was opposition. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had proposed that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee of a peculiar character, but he had given no previous notice of his
 894
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that the hon. Member who had just addressed the House spoke of the opponents of the clause as persons who supported private interests. He did not see how the interests of the three million of people who inhabited the
 946
 MR. DALGLISH  wished the port of Glasgow to be excepted.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he would postpone the Amendment until the proper moment. He wished, however, to explain that the port with which he was connected was peculiarly situated. The cattle market of Liverpool was in the jurisdiction of the county magistrates, being about 1,000 yards from the boundaries of the borough. The way from the point of landing was more a street than a highway, being lined with houses almost continuously. From the market, within the jurisdiction of the county magistrates, the cattle were brought back again within the jurisdiction of the local authorities, and were there slaughtered. That there was no danger from the free use of the cattle market might be inferred from the fact that the county magistrates, on the 29th of January, passed a resolution, permitting cattle to come within their jurisdiction to be sold, and returned to town for slaughter. He knew how difficult it was to make out a case for exception, but he based his appeal to the Committee upon the peculiar position of the trade, which would inevitably centre in Liverpool as soon as the present Bill passed. Liverpool must become the centre of supply of dead meat for the large manufacturing towns of Lancashire and the depot of the meat-producing districts of the north of England and Ireland. On these grounds he trusted that the Committee would not object to add a third exception to the two already admitted in the Bill.
 MR. GRAVES  said, he had an Amendment to propose by way of rider to the clause.
 MR. ACLAND  objected to the adoption of this clause. It would give full liberty to persons to move cattle freely across moors and other open places.
 MR. ACLAND  opposed the clause as being most dangerous.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he doubted whether by the 24th of March the Bill could be carried out, and in some parts of the country the exceptions contained in the measure would be fatal to its whole object. In districts where there might be a great deal of infection, those on the spot should have the power of abolishing all the exceptions.
 MR. ACLAND  thought they had been utterly wasting their time if the Bill was only to continue in operation for three weeks. He had to-day received from several quarters the strongest expressions of opinion that some system should be adopted permanently to regulate cattle traffic in England. The Government had turned their attention to this point, but they were completely stopped by the course which had been taken on the other side.
 MR. ACLAND  thought it would be better to require no confirmation whatever of the statement of the owners.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, he was not aware of any such promise having been made, but early last Session his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) stated that a draught of a Waterworks Bill was prepared. He introduced the Bill, and it was referred to a Select Committee, whose inquiry closed so late in the Session that no satisfactory legislation could take place. In accordance, however, with the recommendation then made, another Bill had been prepared, and he hoped shortly to introduce it.
 MR. MILKER GIBSON : It is the intention of the Government to ask for the same Vote as last year for the collection of those statistics.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, that this Bill was brought in in the interest, not of the City alone, but of the metropolis generally, and therefore the City thought it would receive great consideration from the House. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had asked what diffierence there was between the City and the surrounding districts. The answer was obvious. In the City the streets were narrower
 895
 MR. MITFORD  said, that if the clause was not adopted the result would ruin some hundred small farmers in his district. These persons sent their cattle to graze on commons, and if the clause were rejected they would be ruined.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  proposed to add at the end of the clause the following words:—
 "Any person wilfully driving, or allowing any cattle under his charge to be driven, or to stray into any field sufficiently fenced without the consent of the owner or occupier thereof, shall, on conviction before two justices of the peace, be liable to a penalty not exceeding £20, or to be imprisoned for any term not exceeding thirty days, and the cattle may be slaughtered by order of the said justices if they so think fit."
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would consent to withdraw his Amendment for the present, and bring it up again on the Report. It was very essential that the malpractices of drovers should be prevented by proper punishment.
 MR. BAINES  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire had had nume-
 952
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought that the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. E. P. Bouverie) were entitled to great weight, and he did not think they had been adequately answered by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It appeared to him that they ought to take one of two courses: either they should give the annuity absolutely and on the understanding that under no circumstances occurring in future should it cease, or else they should provide for the cessation of the
 910
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the time of the House would probably be otherwise occupied, and hon. Gentlemen must trust to Orders in Council to continue any of the provisions of this Act.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the law gave power to prevent the importation of cattle from any country in which the disease was known to exist. He could not at the present moment pledge the Government to bring in a permanent measure on this subject which should come into operation on the 25th of March next, though they might make some proposal for regulating the movement of cattle whether infected or not. He thought he might add that the House was hardly spending its time very usefully in legislating for so short a period.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought it a pity to waste time in discussing a clause of this character when the Bill was only to be in force until the 24th of March. If the existing large dairies in towns were to be done away with during the suspension of the cattle traffic, what was to become of the cows? The subject might be worth consideration with the view to permanent legislation, but it should not be dealt with in a temporary Bill like that now before the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the plan adopted in Northumberland had worked well. There the declaration of the owner was countersigned by two tenant-farmers living in the neighbourhood, who certified that they themselves had seen the cattle and the premises where they were, that they were healthy, and that there was no disease within five miles of the place.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought the local authorities should be at liberty to take the course which they thought most efficient.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he saw great difficulty in making any rule applicable to all the various circumstances of different parts of the country, and he considered it best to lay down some general rules, and leave it to the local authorities to adapt them to the different parts of the country.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that in many townships there was only one occupier who could be the parish officer, and that person might possibly be interested in the cattle in question. He proposed an alteration in the clause in conformity with the suggestion of the hon. Baronet (Sir Harry Verney)—namely, to leave the appointment of "person or persons" to sign the certificate to the local authorities.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  suggested that the local authorities should appoint the parish officers.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought the clause gave too much power to parish officers. He was of opinion that it would be better to fix upon some particular officer in each parish, and charge him with the responsibility.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the hon. Member was rather mistaken on that point.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  also argued that a penalty of a much more stringent character than a fine of £5 was absolutely necessary to protect stock-owners against such serious crimes.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether, in view of the Order in Council 4th July, 1865, and also of the Order 19th February, 1866, relating to "sheep-pox or  variola ovina," variola ovina," "Diseases which are sometimes erroneously supposed to be peculiar to Foreign Cattle, but which in reality have existed in the United Kingdom many years before the importation of Foreign animals commenced."
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : After what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) who has preceded me, anything which I may say cannot add to the unanimity with which the House is about to vote this monument; but I do think it necessary to express a hope that no unseemly and unreasonable delay may take place in its execution and erection. Twelve or thirteen years ago a monument was voted to the memory of the great Duke of Wellington. Where is that monument, and what security have we that it will ever be erected? I wish to express a hope that we may be informed when that monument will be completed, and that no such unseemly delay will attend the erection of the monument for Lord Palmerston.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I rise to state that it is not my intention to offer any opposition to the plan which the Government has proposed upon this subject. I feel that it must be a subject of very sincere regret to both sides of this House, and I have no doubt whatever that it is a matter of sincere regret to Her Majesty's Government, that we are thus compelled to take what I may call a retrograde step in colonial policy, by repealing, or, at all events, temporarily suspending the free representative Constitution which has been enjoyed by the colony of Jamaica for upwards of 200 years. But, notwithstanding the regret which I feel for the necessity of taking this retrograde step, I think it will not be necessary that we should enter at any length into a discussion either as to the state of Jamaica or the causes which have induced Her Majesty's Government to come to Parliament with this proposal to suspend the Constitution. I think it impossible that any one who is cognizant of the recent history of Jamaica, or who has made himself acquainted with the contents of the Papers which have lately been laid before us, to doubt that the Government have really very little option in adopting the course which they now have done, and asking the House to consent to the measure which they have submitted to our notice. No one can have read those Papers or have reflected on the history of Jamaica without feeling that the state of that colony has been sadly changed by the events of the last few years, by that policy which, whether right or wrong, was adopted by the Imperial Government with regard to the production of sugar in the West India Islands. Whether that policy were wise or unwise it is now too late to consider, but I think there can be no doubt that the effect of that policy has been to involve this island of Jamaica in a state of increasing misfortune and decay, the result of which is that there now remains in the island neither material for a free representative Assembly nor the basis upon which a free representative Assembly could be founded. The proposal which Her Majesty's Government has submitted
 919 920 cheers 921
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he thought it most imperative that some steps should be taken to secure an inspection of vessels engaged in cattle traffic between this and foreign countries, particularly with a view of securing a free circulation of air through all parts of the vessel, plenty of room, and a sufficiency of provender. No cattle, moreover, ought to be allowed on deck. If he saw no sign from the Government of a desire to attain this object he should be disposed to blame them, and to charge the President of the Board of Trade with a remissness of duty.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that the system of elected overseers had worked well in Devonshire, which, however, might not be on all fours with other counties. He believed the best plan was
 955
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that no one could feel more then he did the wisdom of the advice that no allusion should be made at this period to the events which had taken place in Jamaica; and therefore, in the few remarks which he was about to make, he would be careful not to say a single word upon the subject. Of the composition of the Commission there could be no question.
 927
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  hoped the Bill would be restricted to the 25th of March, and that the Government would in the meantime give the subject their attention. He was perfectly willing that power should be given to the Government to continue some of the provisions of the Bill; or, if that was not done, a short continuance Act might be introduced for the purpose.
 SIR WILLIAM HUTT  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Government propose to introduce any measure to authorize the collection of Agricultural Statistics in Great Britain?
 MR. GRANT DUFF  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is intended to introduce during the course of the present Session any measure with reference to the Public Schools?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he was not able to state positively that a measure relating to Public Schools would be introduced this Session.; but, if the state of public business would permit, it was the intention of his noble Friend, Lord Clarendon, to bring in a Bill in the other House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I must answer the Question of my hon. Friend in the negative. There have been no communications between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the United States with respect to sending any squadron to the coast of Cuba. There were communications some time ago—I think in the year 1864—between the two Governments with respect to the expediency of sending a small American squadron to the West African coast. With regard to the desirability of attaining the object in view, both parties were entirely at one; but the desire of the Government of the United States was that the vessels of the United States appointed to that duty should be released from the restrictions placed upon the cruisers of the United States in British ports generally under the Neutrality Proclamation. The opinion of Her Majesty's Government was that it was perfectly fair that they should be released, but that all vessels so released should be employed exclusively in operations for the
 960
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My hon. Friend is, no doubt, well aware, from his experience in Parliament, that the universal and inflexible rule of those who hold the office I do is to decline to answer any question in respect to the reduction of duties, except in those cases in which the Government itself has done some act which gives ground for the presumption that such reduction is intended. My opinion is that there is not any ground for reducing the duty on coffee with reference to the duty on tea, because I think they are things which ought to bear pretty nearly the same duty  ad valorem. d. d. ad valorem;
 MR. DAWSON  asked the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether, in the Bill contemplated by the Government for the better Regulation of Weights and Measures, provision will be made as to a scale of uniformity in Weights and Measures, to be applicable equally to all parts of the United Kingdom?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that in 1862 Professor Gamgee was directed to re-port upon the subject of diseases in meat, and among the diseases embraced in the inquiry was the one referred to. A German physician of eminence, who had paid special attention to the subject, was directed to make a Report, and it was published in the last volume of the Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council. The Report was most exhaustive, supplied a number of illustrations, and gave every possible information upon this and other parasitic diseases affecting animals that were killed for human food.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in answer to his hon. Friend, he had to state that the decision to which he referred was, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) believed, a decision of the Postmaster General never brought before the Treasury until it came under its notice in consequence of the Question of his hon. Friend; and it was a decision not upon the case of the whole of the letter-carriers of the Post Office, as, perhaps, the question might lead hon. Members to suppose, but upon an application from a considerable number of the country letter-carriers. He mentioned this because it was important to bear in mind, in considering
 962
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in the first place let me say that I think no man could blame my right hon. Friend, with the feelings which he ascribes to himself—believing that the House was in danger of being taken by surprise—for having looked for the first opportunity of interposing. That is my first answer. My next answer will not be precisely the same in form. My right hon. Friend has asked whether, since the Notice which he placed on the Paper the other night, Her Majesty's Government have determined not to make any alteration in the Charter of the Queen's University without first consulting the House as to the propriety of the change. In reply to that, I have to say that there has been no change whatever in the intentions of Her Majesty's Government since or before the appearance of the Notice of my right hon. Friend. But the Question put to me upon the former day by my right hon. Friend, if I recollect it rightly, was, whether I would lay upon the table of the House a draft of the Charter as proposed to be altered before advising the Queen to sign it. ["No, no !"] So I understood the Question. Such I believe it to be, and to that Question I must answer now, as then, in the negative. But I said at that time that my right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department was prepared to lay upon the table of the House at the earliest possible period the correspondence relating to this subject; and if the object of my right hon. Friend is simply to be fully informed of the advice which the Government may think it their duty to give to the Crown in this important matter, I entirely concur with him in thinking it is quite reasonable that that information should be given. I always thought that last year, when the Government came to its preliminary Resolution on this subject, the very first tiling done was to state to this House the nature of the changes which it was proposed to make. Since that time there has been much correspondence on the subject. That correspondence is not yet concluded. I believe the House will not think there is anything strange in the delay which has
 967
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to answer in the negative.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Our first duty will be to make up our minds on the question. Nothing could be more unworthy on our part than to bring this important question before the House previous to our having made up our own minds as to the course we should pursue. It will be perfectly practical, right, and convenient that no definite proceeding shall be taken by the Crown before the House has an opportunity of expressing its opinion.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDT , in rising to call the attention of the House to a recent decision of the House of Lords on the Rating of the Mersey Docks; and to ask the President of the Poor Law Board questions as to the conduct of the Board in consequence of that decision; and also as to the intention of the Government with respect to the law of rating generally, and especially as it affects charitable institu-
 981 982 983 984 "If a dedication to public purposes be consistent with rateability, then for the future public hospitals like St. Bartholomew's Hospital, St. George's Hospital, the London Hospital, St. Thomas' Hospital, and other establishments of the like nature in the metropolis and throughout the kingdom, with a multitude of other public charities, become at once subject to poor rates. Lunatic asylums, like St. Luke's or Bethlehem in the metropolis, and county lunatic asylums also become assessable at their letting value; though in many instances the exemption of such institutions is recognized by Acts of Parliament, providing that land taken for the purpose shall retain its rateability to the extent of the value of the land without the buildings upon it."—[ Law Journal, "Property is to be rated not at what a tenant does give, but at what he would give for it in its actual condition (6 & 7  Will. 985 "Surplusage of the rates should be distributed by the justices for the relief of the poor hospitals in the county, and of those that should sustain losses by fire, water, the sea, or other casualties, and to such other charitable purposes for the relief of the poor." 986 Will. 987 988 "Independently of the decided cases—several of which are irreconcilable with each other—it would seem easy to answer this inquiry; and having regard to the Parochial Assessment Act it may be said, in answer, that Occupation to be rateable must be of property yielding, or capable of yielding, a net annual value—that is to say, a clear rent over and above the probable average cost of the repairs, insurance, and other expenses, if any, necessary to maintain the property in a state to command such rent' It is in this sense I understand the words 'beneficial occupation,' whenever it is said that to support a rate the occupation must be a beneficial one. For on principle it is by no means necessary that the occupation should be beneficial to the occupier. It is sufficient if the property be capable of a clear rent over and above the necessary outgoings. So trustees who are in law the tenants and occupiers of valuable property upon trust for charitable purposes, such as hospitals and lunatic asylums, are in principle rateable, notwithstanding that the buildings are actually occupied by paupers who are sick or insane." 989
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I admit that the Question now before the House has been discussed in a temperate manner; and so far, whatever opinions hon. Members may have formed, I do not apprehend that any public disadvantage will arise from the discussion. The subject is beyond all doubt one of the greatest importance, and at the same time of no slight difficulty. It is of the greatest importance that the House should bear in mind what were the exact facts of the various cases bearing on the question which occurred during the recent unhappy war in America. The hon. Member for Windsor (Mr. Labouchere) is slightly in error when he says that the English Government was several times requested by the Government of the United States to amend the Foreign Enlistment Act; in fact, the very reverse of that statement would be nearer to
 1008 1009 Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Shenandoah, "The owners of every armed ship or vessel, sailing out of the ports of the United States, belonging wholly or in part to citizens thereof." "Of any vessel manifestly built for warlike purposes of which the cargo shall principally consist of arms and munitions of war." 1010 Alabama Alabama. Florida, Alexandra, Alabama 1011 Pampero Alabama Georgia Shenandoah, 1012 1013 "It appears to me, I confess, that, as neither the law of the United States nor our own Foreign Enlistment Act have proved upon trial completely efficacious, it is worth consideration whether improvements may not be made in the statutes of both nations; so that, for the future, each Government may have in its own territory as much security as our free institutions will permit against those who act in defiance of the intention of the Sovereign, and evade the letter of its laws." 1014
 LORD STANLEY : My hon. and gallant Friend (General Dunne) has conferred more honour upon me than is my due in alluding to me as Chairman of the Commission now sitting to inquire into the Railways of the Kingdom. But I have the honour of a seat upon that Commission, and I shall be very glad, as far as it is in my power, to give him the explanation that he desires. The state of the case with regard to the Irish railways is this:—We have taken a large mass of information with regard to the Irish railway system in general. That evidence is at present, and has been for some time, in the hands of the Government, and, as far as we are concerned, there is not the slightest objection to its being made public. I believe we have obtained pretty nearly all the information that will be found material with regard to Irish railways; but we have not expressly decided on closing that branch of the inquiry, and if any communications are brought before us which we consider important we have not cut ourselves off from receiving them. The second part of my right hon. Friend's question was, "Do you intend to make a separate Report as regards Ireland without waiting for the result of the inquiry as regards Great Britain?" My answer to that is that we do not purpose at present to make any separate Report as regards Ireland. As to our reasons, I cannot, of course, undertake to speak for my colleagues on the Commission; but, speaking for myself, I think I can explain why that decision was come to. It would have been a very easy thing to make a separate Report on the Irish part of the Question, if that Report had been confined to a summary of facts, or even to recommendations dealing with local details. But the main questions referred to us are not questions of fact or of local detail. They are questions involving very large principles of administrative management. One, for instance, is a proposition which has been put forward in a very ingenious treatise, and which was discussed last year in this House—a proposition that the State should buy up all the property of the railway companies. Failing that, there is a proposition that the State should
 1017 1018
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I feel it to be a matter of public duty, and I think it is one of considerable public importance, that I should immediately follow the hon. Gentleman. I should consider that I failed in my duty if I allowed any other Member to interpose. I will despatch very shortly, obeying reluctantly the somewhat confused and confusing law of the House, any reference that may be necessary to matters which were raised in the earlier part of the evening. The hon. Member for Devizes (Mr. Darby Griffith) made a proposal that the rates of postage on newspapers should be reduced, in consequence of the low rates at which they were carried by the railways. He mentioned that newspapers were in some instances carried by railways from station
 1037 1038
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is immaterial. There are no papers upon this subject to be produced. The hon. Member, apparently anticipating that a reason might be asked of him for raising the discussion which he has introduced, stated as his reason for so doing that the people of the United States are an outspoken people, and that we in this country are an outspoken people also. I entirely concur with the hon. Gentleman in thinking that the perfectly free discussion of all subjects whatever in this House forms perhaps the most characteristic, and also the most valuable, and important feature of our habits. At the same time it does appear to me that considerations of time and of place, and of the order of proceedings, as well as considerations of prudence and policy bear very strongly not against the general principle announced by the hon. Gentleman, but upon the question whether particular things should or should not be said at a particular time or in a particular place. I confess if I ask myself what useful object it is that the hon. Member anticipates from commencing a discussion upon this subject at the present moment, I find it difficult to give an answer to the question. I would ask the hon. Gentleman to recollect, considering the tone of his remarks, the position in which we ourselves usually and habitually stand in the face of foreign nations—that the proceedings of English citizens are constantly made the subject of complaint abroad, and that imputations are constantly thrown upon the English Government of a disinclination to interfere with those proceedings—I would ask him further to remember that we plead against those imputations the freedom of our laws and our habits, and the extreme inexpediency and imprudence of attempts on the part of Government at taking measures of repression on behalf of, or in the interests of a foreign Government, unless those measures of repression are founded upon facts perfectly notorious and are certain to be attended with success. I am bound to say I do not think there was in the speech of the hon. Gentleman a sufficient allowance for those
 1039
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I accept the hon. Member's correction of my statement, but do not think the difference is material. Does the hon. Gentleman really suppose that on his making these statements from the newspapers for the first time publicly in this House, without having had any previous communication with Government on the subject, it would be in my power to follow him, to identify the sources from which he drew his information—in some instances he did not state what those sources were—and to show upon a careful examination which of these statements could or could not be made matters of representation to the United States Government? I am bound to say that it does appear to me that if we are to maintain the full discharge of international duties, these international duties affect not Governments alone, but also all those who fill public stations in civilized countries. If statements are to be made apparently with the intention of implicating the good faith of a foreign country, it is hardly too much to ask that those statements should first be placed in the hands of the authorized representatives of our own Government, in order that, if necessary, those particular statements may be made the subject of communication between the two countries, so that our own Government may either be made responsible for declining to act upon those statements, or else that the Government of which the complaint is made, may be made responsible for declining to act upon the remonstrances which may be addressed to them in reference to those statements.  The Chancellor of the Exchequer 1040 Alabama "We are reluctant to allow that the Government are responsible for the putting down and the prevention of things which cannot be put down and prevented." 1041 1042 1043 1044
 MR. OTWAY  said, that in these matters he thought that safety was not always to be found in silence. In 1853, when the relations between this country and Russia were in a state of extreme tension, his hon. Friend (Mr. Layard) persistently but unsuccessfully requested information from the Government with regard to these matters, but he was always met with the answer that it would not be consistent with public interests that the subject should be discussed in the House. What happened? The country "drifted" into a war. His hon. Friend was then, and, he believed, was still of opinion that if discussion had taken place, and the Emperor of Russia had been made acquainted with the opinion of this country through the House of Commons, the Crimean War would have been averted. So he hoped
 1045 1046
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise for the purpose of moving that the sum of £30,000 be granted to Her Majesty for the marriage portion of the Princess Helena Augusta Victoria, and I must accompany this Resolution by a very few words for the purpose of obviating a misapprehension which might possibly, for want of care, have grown out of language used by me yesterday with regard to the subject of the annuity of the Princess Helena. I pointed out to the Committee, as was no more than just, that the
 1056
 GENERAL DUNNE  opposed the clause. He objected to Irish cattle being dealt with in the same manner as cattle imported from abroad as far as regarded compensation, while the owners of the latter cattle were allowed advantages not given to those of the former.
 COLONEL GREVILLE  reminded the hon. Gentleman the Under Secretary that the cattle disease had not appeared in Ireland.
 MR. FLEMING  suggested that on the arrival in this country of cattle from Ireland or abroad the number of living animals should be compared with the number shipped, and if it was found that any animal had died on the passage all the remaining ones should be destroyed.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  called attention to the fact that in the preamble to the Bill a number of symptoms were set forth as those by which an animal suffering from cattle plague might be recognized. From the construction of the clause it might be held that as this was a penal Act no animal could be slaughtered under it unless it had all those symptoms. He therefore moved that those words should be omitted from the preamble.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that under the former Act of Parliament it had been found necessary to indemnify all parties who had acted under the Orders in Council, and it would be very desirable to introduce some clause specifying the kind of Orders they should pass, because if they should pass Orders in Council as extensive as those now in force, they might have to come to Parliament again for an indemnity.
 MR. BARING  said, he was quite aware of the importance of the point to which the right hon. Gentleman had referred.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it would be found impossible to apply any one rule to various parts of the country, because the local authority and other circumstances differed so much in character; and he feared that the Bill would in consequence tend to spread the disease rather than check it.
 MR. HUNT  remarked that if the right hon. Gentleman held the opinion he expressed it was a pity he had allowed the Bill to pass.
 MR. DALGLISH  said, the Bill had been passed very hastily, and he feared it would prove a crude measure in many respects.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  observed, that the Bill had been very carefully considered and passed in opposition to the
 1059
 MR. TOEKE  said, he was glad to hear the hon. Gentleman admit, at the conclusion of his speech, the grave character of a question which at the beginning of it he had treated in too jocular a manner. He was unable, however, to agree with the hon. Gentleman that the re-opening of all the complicated questions which arose during the late war would be the best course for the Government to adopt for bringing about the kindly feeling which he hoped would be maintained by both countries. It was a misfortune that Irish affairs were always viewed under two opposite aspects. Only a few days ago, for instance, the House was in solemn conclave on the course proposed to be adopted by the Government in consequence of the serious emergencies which had arisen in Ireland. To-night, on the contrary, the House had been told that the matter was treated in America as a matter of jest, and that it was wrong to regard the subject as one which Her Majesty's Government could legitimately bring under the notice of the Government of the United States. For his own part, he thought that the hon. Member for Stockport had done great service in bringing this question before the House. He thought, moreover, that the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had avoided the real question. No want of faith was imputed to the American Government; no blame or breach of national obligation was charged upon them; but what the hon.
 1052
 LORD AUGUSTUS HERVEY  asked the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he is aware that the Demarch of Astako reported to the superior authorities that the three English travellers who were seized by brigands near Dragomestre, on the 8th of December, 1865, had been previously warned by him of their danger; whether he is aware that that report was completely untrue; and, if so, whether the Foreign Office has urged, or intends to urge, upon the Greek Government the dismissal of that functionary?
 MR. AYRTON  remarked, with reference to the statement of the President of the Board of Trade upon the subject of metropolitan railways, that, although he quite approved the spirit which induced the right hon. Gentleman to shrink from transferring the action of the Government upon the House or upon private legislation, yet he thought the feeling might be carried too far, because he could conceive of a state of things which would render it absolutely necessary for the right hon. Gentleman to interfere for the public good, and also for the purpose of ministering to the legitimate convenience of Members. The question of metropolitan railways was one of great interest and complexity. The present difficulty had arisen from the decision arrived at by the Joint Committee two years ago with respect to railways in the metropolis; for when the proposed restrictions had been once broken through Parliament was flooded with schemes. They were so numerous and so conflicting that there was great danger of confusion and delay, and in the meanwhile the injury to the inhabitants of London was enormous; houses were taken by thousands, and all the arrangements of business were seriously disturbed. He strongly urged that the whole of the schemes now before Parliament should be dealt with by one Committee of hon. Members, or, if possible, by a Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament. If the many schemes were dealt with, as before, by several Committees in their separate rooms, the result, he feared, would be similar to the results of the past. Contradictory conclusions would be arrived at by the several Committees, based upon the diverse evidence of separate sets of witnesses, and thus discredit would be thrown upon the labours of hon. Gentlemen. To avoid this some directing mind should be brought to bear upon the whole subject, and the suggestion he had made would permit this to be done. He would also remind the House that the Board looking after the drainage of the metropolis
 1026
 MR. LAYARD  said, that so far from the authorities stating that they had assured the three English gentlemen that there was no danger, they rather complained of those gentlemen going into a part of the country infested by brigands. He held in his hand a report from the Demarch of Astako to his Government, in which the fact was stated. Under these circumstances, Her Majesty's Government did not think it necessary to call upon the Greek Government to take any steps with regard to him. Mr. Erskine had directed inquiries to be made into the facts of the case. It would be very advisable if travellers in Greece—and there appeared to be many—would put themselves in communication with the authorities before proceeding through districts remote from towns, as it was well known that brigandage was rife at the present moment in that country.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that the apology of the hon. Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) for having entered further into the subject under discussion than he had intended was unnecessary. But he might complain a little of the hon. Member's procedure. Not quite understanding the nature of his Question and the course he intended to pursue, he (Mr. Villiers) had asked him whether it was his intention to impugn the judgment lately given in the
 992 993 994
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he is aware that certain Railways have commenced carrying Newspapers along the whole extent of their lines by means of an adhesive Stamp of the price of a halfpenny for each transmission; and, if so, whether it would not be expedient that the Stamp
 980
 MR. READ  asked the President of the Board of Trade, What machinery will be employed in taking the number of Cattle,
 964
 GENERAL DUNNE , in rising to put a question relative to the Report of the
 1015 1016
 MR. CLIVE  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government is about to bring in any measure with reference to those Mines in Great Britain to which the Act 23 & 24  Vict. c
 MR. HUNT  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in the event of the Report on the Cattle Plague Bill being brought up that evening, there will be any objection to taking the third reading of the Bill?
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House had stated that private property on land was exempted from the ravages of war. But he (Mr. Sandford) wanted to know whether the hon. Gentleman had read nothing of Sherman's march, or of the devastations committed by Sheridan during the recent contest in America? Bid he believe that private property on land had been respected by those officers? Why, a system of destruction of private property had been carried on by the Federal generals, which was, he believed, unparalleled in the previous history of the world. But he thought that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Windsor (Mr. Labouchere) was justified in bringing the subject under the notice of the House, because it was somewhat of a scandal that our Neutrality Laws should remain in their present position. What could be worse than our Foreign Enlistment Act? The Judges of the land were divided in their interpretation of that Act; and as the case at present stood, the decision of the Court of Exchequer was opposed to the act of the Government and of the Attorney General. Under these circumstances, it appeared to him that Her Majesty's Government should have announced, in the Speech from the Throne, some intention on their part of introducing a measure for the purpose of making the law upon this subject clear and definite. He believed that most people were of opinion that the law had been somewhat strained when the vessels referred to were seized by the Government; and he thought that the law ought to be placed in such a position that it should not be strained by any
 1003
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he could not acquiesce in the view of the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) that a time of war was not proper for the consideration of these questions. At all events, they had usually been taken up in time of war. Our own Foreign Enlistment Act had been passed during the war between Spain and her colonies, and the United States had twice altered their Enlistment Act during the same war. The hon. and
 1004 Alabama. 1005 Georgia, Shenandoah Shenandoah Laurel Shenandoah Laurel Shenandoah. Shenandoah 1006 Now 1007 "The United States did not present the subject as an impeachment of the good faith of a Power which was professing the most friendly dispositions, but as involving questions of public law, of which the settlement is essential to the peace of nations; and, though pecuniary reparation to their injured citizens would have followed incidentally on a decision against Great Britain, such compensation was not their primary object. They had a higher motive, and it was in the interests of peace and justice to establish important principles of International Law. The correspondence will be placed before you. The ground on which the British Minister rests his justification is substantially, that the municipal law of a nation, and the domestic interpretations of that law, are the measure of its duty as a neutral, and I feel bound to declare my opinion, before you and before the world, that that justification cannot be sustained before the tribunal of nations. "This might have been prevented, and made whole, With very easy arguments of love; Which now the manage of two kingdoms must With fearful bloody issue arbitrate."
 MR. WHALLEY  believed that the remedy to the evil complained of was not to be found in a Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament, but in carrying out this simple proposition—of taking railway as well as all other private business before another tribunal than the House of Commons. Two years ago he served on a Committee in which a proposition to the effect that the whole business of railway legislation ought not to be undertaken by that House was negatived only by a majority of one; and since then the country had been plunged into such a state in relation to railway construction that he believed we had to pay for new lines something like 15 per cent, while the outlay for similar purposes was only 5 per cent in France. Thus it came to pass that no man in his senses was disposed to invest a single shilling in railway shares, and that it was left to engineers, lawyers, and others to construct those great and useful works, as it were on their own terms. That was the result of their attempting to keep legislation with respect to railways within that House. The influence, he might add, which the great railway companies brought to bear on that House and its Committees was perfectly unprece-
 1027
 MR. FAWCETT  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he thinks the Postmaster General came to a just and wise decision in refusing the application which the letter-carriers made for an advance in their wages in consequence of the rise in house-rent and in the price of provisions; and, whether these same considerations have not induced the magistrates of many counties to raise the salaries of the police?
 MR. LABOUCHERE : Has the hon. and learned Gentleman ever heard of the case of the ship  Maori?
 MR. LABOUCHERE  rose to call the attention of the House to the inadequacy of our Neutrality Law to enable us to fulfil our International obligations to wards Foreign countries, and said, that having
 995 996 "It is a duty which we owe to Spain and to our own honour, while we profess to be at peace with her, not to allow ships of war to be equipped in our ports, or allow armaments to sail from them against her." 997 Alabama Alabama Florida Alabama. "We may have reason to believe it to be true [meaning the alleged destination of the vessel], but to say that we are to act upon strong suspicion against another State on certain facts which have never been judicially established, is a proposition not to be accepted without grave consideration." 998 999 Floridas Alabamas
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that his hon. Friend did not quite understand the answer which he had given yesterday. It related to the Exchequer standards, and to copies made of those standards. The present question related more to the law as to weights and measures in force in England and Ireland, which was not directly the object of the Bill in question.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the statement of the hon. Gentleman was, on the whole, correct. During the last thirty-three years the difference between the amount of fees received in the Registry Office and the expenses of that office somewhat exceeded £40,000—that is to say, the fees had amounted to more than £13,000, while the expenses were about £12,000 per annum. Now, on an average of thirty-three years, a little more than £1,000 a year was not a very large sum, and would not be enough to make it prudent or practicable for the Treasury to reduce the fees. If they did so, there would not be enough in many years to pay the salaries of the officers of the court. Further, though on the average there had been a surplus for the last thirty-three years, latterly that surplus had ceased, and if the hon. Gentleman would refer to the Estimates of last year and of this he would find that the fees at present were not sufficient to meet the expenses of the court. Meanwhile, an Act of Parliament had been passed, under which the whole of the fees went into the Exchequer, and the expenses of the court were defrayed in the usual way by the Votes of that House. When the hon. Member talked over the surplus having strayed away from Ireland into the Consolidated Fund, he forgot that it was paid into the Consolidated Fund of Great Britain and Ireland; and he (Mr. Childers) feared that if an account were taken on this basis Ireland would be found largely indebted to the Consolidated Fund for deficiencies, and for repayments excused.
 MR. BLAKE  observed, that living in the neighbourhood of an important fishing station on the coast of Ireland, he wished to call the attention of the President of the Board of Trade to the condition of this branch of industry in Ireland, and to the desirability of giving the earliest possible effect to the recommendations of the Commissioners. It would, no doubt, be within the recollection of the House that, when Mr. Fenwick, the late Member for Sunderland, moved an Address to the Crown for a Royal Commission to inquire into the Sea Fisheries of the United Kingdom, the Government opposed the Motion, which, however, was ultimately carried by a small majority. He thought the country, and especially Ireland, had reason to rejoice that the Motion was successful, for the inquiry had proved to be one of great national importance. He had himself attended some of the meetings of the Commissioners in Ireland, and he could bear testimony to the intelligence, zeal, and urbanity with which the inquiry was carried out, and which resulted in the production of an enormous amount of useful evidence, terminating with a valuable Report, which he had no hesitation in saying was one of the most complete and trustworthy that had been presented to Parliament for a very long period. The Commissioners made two recommendations with respect to Ireland, which he wished to impress upon the Government. They stated that there was a great falling off in the number of boats and men employed along the coast. In the year 1830 there were 13,119 vessels of all classes, and 64,771 men and boys employed in the trade. In 1836, when the stimulus of bounties or loan funds was withdrawn, the number of vessels fell to 10,761, and the men and boys to 54,119. In 1845, immediately before the famine, the number of vessels was 19,883, and the men and boys 93,073; in 1848 (after the famine), the number of vessels fell to 15,932, and the men and boys to 70,111; while last year the number of vessels was but 9,300, and the hands had fallen to 40,946. This showed a diminution within the last twenty years of 10,583 boats, and of 52,127 men. The Commissioners added that the numbers given for 1865, reduced as they were, still appeared to be large as compared with the produce of the fisheries indicated by the railway returns and the supplies in the principal
 978 979
 MR. SPEAKER : Unless I am otherwise directed by the House, and unless the House desires, that there should be a departure from our ordinary rules, I must remind the right hon. Baronet of the exact state of the case. The right hon. Baronet has given Notice that at a later period of the evening, on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply, he will make a Motion upon this subject. The right hon. Baronet has the liberty, if he pleases, to change that Motion into the form of a Question; but, in putting the Question he is bound to observe the rules which are prescribed, and I must also add that it will not be in his power to do what he has just said he might do, to make a Motion to adjourn the House for the purpose of this discussion. Because he has given Notice of his intention at a later period of the evening to move an Address, he cannot now by anticipation go into that question, by moving the adjournment of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : I must remind the right hon. Baronet that this is rather an answer to the Question than the Question itself.
 MR. DILLON  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it does not appear by a Parliamentary Return of July 1864, No. 557, that between the 31st day of May 1830, and the 31st day of May 1864, the Surplus Fees of the Registry of Deeds Office (Ireland), lodged to the credit of the Consolidated Fund, amount to £41,710 8a. 7 d., 8s. 7d.; Will.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  expressed a like opinion. In a great question of this kind, involving the welfare of thousands, nay, millions of people, different Committees, with different facts before them, ought not to have power of giving decisions; but the whole of the metropolitan railway schemes should be considered by one Committee, or one Commission, with all the facts before them. Additional railway accommodation was undoubtedly required in the metropolis; but that accommodation should be afforded according to a well-devised general scheme, and not on the haphazard speculation of different and conflicting companies. The working classes, turned out of their dwellings by the destruction inevitably arising from the making of metropolitan railways, ought also to have a large share of attention. A Joint Committee of the two Houses would probably be the best machinery.
 MR. LOCKE  desired, in consequence of the observations of the hon. Member for Manchester (Mr. Bazley), to state that a very different opinion on the subject was entertained a few years back. When the late Mr. Sotheron Estcourt was President of the Poor Law Board, and the hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) was Under Secretary of the Home Department, a Committee was appointed to inquire into the propriety of rating Government and other [public property. At his (Mr. Locke's) suggestion, the inquiry was extended to all public property; and the Committee, which was presided over by the late Mr. Wilson, agreed to a Report which recommended that not only Government property, but the property of all public institutions should be rated. Upon that recommendation Mr. Sotheron Estcourt introduced a Bill for the purpose of rating all public property whatever, including Government property, hospitals, and every description of place throughout the country. That was considered a right and just principle. It was obvious that if they exempted a public building or hospital, the inhabitants of the parish in which it was must pay a larger proportion of rates. The word "occupy" had been twisted and turned about for many generations. At last a decision in regard to the rating of hospitals had been given by Lord West-bury, who certainly was in the habit of
 991
 MR. REBOW , as representing the people of Colchester, who thought they alone possessed the real "natives," wished to say a few words on that subject. He could confirm all that had been said by the hon. Member opposite in reference to the deep sea fishing. In conjunction with other gentlemen he had been to the Board of Trade, in order to induce the Department to interfere in regard to the treaty with France. One great object of the fishermen on our eastern coast was to obtain an extension of the period of fishing for the deep sea oysters, which were in the finest condition during the months of May and June. That fact, however, had not been discovered at the time when the treaty was made, and the fishing months were fixed. The object of the Coln Fishery Company was at present to obtain a positive assurance as to the line of demarcation over which the French Treaty extended. The East coast fishermen held that they ought to be enabled to fish in the German Ocean, from which they were supposed to be excluded by the French Convention.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he had hoped that our diplomatic body abroad were better informed on International Law than now appeared from the speech of the hon. Member. First of all, the hon. Member told the House that the morality of Europe had changed, and that the citizens and subjects of one State were not allowed to become warlike instruments in another. Had the hon. Member never heard of the Federal army? Was not that army composed to a large extent of British subjects? Was it not the fact that a very large number of Irishmen went to America, enrolled themselves in that army, and fought for the Federal cause, and had now returned, calling themselves American officers and appearing as Fenians in Dublin? The next statement the hon. Member made was that the United States law allowed the Executive to put their hands on and pounce on ships building, on arms and equipments, without sufficient evidence. He denied that altogether.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he denied the statement of the hon. Gentleman as a matter of law. He knew that the Attorney General stepped in and prevented certain rams built by Messrs. Laird from going to the assistance of the Confederate States; but there was no difference between the law of England and America as to the treatment of neutral States. Now, he wished to know how it was possible to prevent such transactions as those that had been referred to. The hon. Member said that ships of war were sent out piecemeal, the body of the vessel from one port, the equipment and guns from another, and the powder from another; and he (Mr. Roebuck) would ask how it was possible, except on evidence, clear, definite, and indisputable, for the Executive in a constitutional country like this to put their hands on a transaction of that kind? The hon. Member had alluded to the possibility of England being involved in a war at some time or other. Well, we had incurred that danger before, and we must incur it again. The Executive ought to be warned against taking upon itself such dangerous powers as those suggested by the hon. Member. England depended on her mercantile enterprize and on her power to supply other countries with whatever they required, whether it was to build ships, to make gunpowder, or to cast cannon for them; and so did the United States. The whole civilized world did the same thing. And he would recommend to our Government not to attempt to acquire more power in that matter than they at present possessed. They had power enough to prevent the occurrence of any great mischief, and they ought not to endanger the security of our great merchants and artificers by any new proceeding. He confessed that he did not like a discussion of that sort upon an occasion like the present. They should recollect that a great and gallant people had recently made a great stand in defence of what they thought were their national rights, and that gallant people had suffered cruelly from the struggle which ensued. Things had been done in the course of the American contest that would have disgraced Tilly or Wallenstein; and the House was now asked to call upon the Government to take steps that would in some way throw discredit upon that gal-
 1001
 COIONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he had given notice of a Motion for that evening on the subject of railway and other
 1019 Colonel Wilson Patten 1020
 MR. OLIPHANT  said, that in spite of the suggestion which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he could not avoid trespassing for a few moments upon the indulgence of the House, as he totally differed from the hon. Member who had just spoken. He thought that no course could possibly be more unwise than that recommended by the hon. Member for Stockport (Mr. Watkin). He had only just returned from America, where he had ample opportunity of forming a judgment upon the Fenian movement, and ascertaining the amount of support which it derived from the American people. He might tell the hon. Gentleman that if he were himself a "Head Centre" he could not possibly have suggested a course more agreeable to the leaders of that movement. The one thing the Fenians desired was that notice should he taken of them. Their proceedings had been ridiculed from one end of America to the other. The request which they had ever made was that the sympathy which had persistently been denied to their movement should be accorded by the American Government. He did not believe that it was difficult to account for the unpopularity in which the Fenian movement was held in America. The Americans denied them any sympathy, in the first place, because there was not a gentleman among them. The Americans had a peculiar susceptibility upon that point. They admired such an individual when they could find him. But when they found that the Fenians were composed of the hewers of wood, the drawers of water, the waiters at hotels, and men engaged in similar occupations, the movement failed entirely in gaining the respect and admiration of the American people. Again, the Fenians had been ill-advised enough to start another nationality, and there could not possibly be anything more distasteful to the Americans, who approved no nationality but the
 1047 New York Herald, New York Times, 1048 "The decline from heroic tragedy to the moat stupid of burlesques during the internecine war in this city between the Head Centre and the Senate has been duly recorded. The ridiculous force is over, the smoke has cleared away, the parties themselves have become indifferent or weary, and the whole thing is as flat and uninteresting as a wake without whisky. By the new tactics the grand campaign for the liberation of Ireland is transferred from this city to the rural regions. A dozen imitators of Peter the Hermit are abroad and sounding the 'hewgag.' The American Continent (except Canada) is to be aroused, and in less than no time the Queen's minions from Cork to Coleraine, and from Dublin to Galway, are to skedaddle, leaving Mr. Chief Executive Stephens at liberty to creep from his hiding-place under the blarney stone, hoist the 'sunburst,' and proclaim at last the Republic of Ireland. But thus far the new tactics have not worked quite up to expectation. There is a Corsican feud—a regular vendetta—between the Head Centre faction and the Senate faction. If a senatorian undertakes to lecture, a Head Cen-treite is on his track like a bloodhound, and before he has time to say 'Fellow-citizens,' the other side puts in an appearance and the fun commences. The enthusiastic hearers at once take sides. Irishmen never hesitate to do that much, no matter what the question, and the lecturer stands as much chance of being heard as a Puritan psalm-singer at Donnybrook Fair. This was the case the other day at Troy, where the lecturing crusade was inaugurated. The doors were hardly opened before the Milesian blood was at fever heat, and in default of a regiment or two of Life Guards to wallop, the boys went at each other. They did not hear the lecture, but they did enjoy the coveted luxury of a regular hulla-balloo, such as would have done honour to Tipperary in its best days. This ridiculous spectacle will doubtless be witnessed in most of our large towns, the squabbles of the O'Mahonians and the Senate being, thank fortune, transferred from this city to the provinces." 1049 1050 Alabama, 1051
 MR. MARSH  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is his intention to reduce the Duty on Coffee in the same proportion as the Duty on Tea has been reduced?
 MR. LOWE : As I am very anxious, Sir, that there should not again be any misunderstanding on this subject, I wish to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer a question. Am I to understand from him that when the Government has made up its mind on this subject it will first tender advice to the Crown, and then give Parliament an opportunity of expressing its opinion? Is that to be the course adopted? Or will Parliament be asked its opinion before any advice is given to the Crown?
 MR. LOWE : But will the Government give their advice to the Crown before Parliament has an opportunity of giving its opinion on the subject?
 MR. LAING  said, he was reluctant for keep the House from business; but as a question of that great importance had been raised he should be sorry that the discussion should terminate without any expression having been given to an idea which he knew to be widely entertained in commercial circles with respect to the only satisfactory mode of solving the difficulty. He believed that the only satisfactory settlement of the question would be found in an agreement on the part of the civilized nations of the world that all private property at sea should be placed upon the same footing as private property on land. The rule with regard to private property on land was clear, distinct, and definite; it was that it should not be subject to capture and destruction unless for  bond fide Alabama 1002 Alabamas
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, I shall address only a few words to the House upon the present occasion, for I have been so deeply impressed with the last observation which fell from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that I hope the House will not prosecute the discussion. There are now two grave propositions before the House. One of them, emanating from the hon. Gentleman opposite, calls upon the Government to discuss one of the most difficult international questions which can be conceived—namely, what is to be the conduct of different countries with regard to the Foreign Enlistment Act. The other, brought forward by the hon. Member for Stockport, without any specific notice, drawing the attention of the Government to the particular question to be considered, has reference to the representations to be made to a friendly Power and ally with regard to its relations with this country. I regret to see questions so grave, so difficult, and so embarrassing, nay, questions which may involve this country in a controversy the end of which none can foresee, brought forward on a Motion for going into Committee of Supply, and I think that, while the House has an undoubted right to debate with perfect freedom any question that may be brought before it, it will be advisable under the circumstances not to continue the present discussion. I will only add that a grave matter like this, affecting Ireland and our relations with the United States of America, ought to be brought before the House upon a specific Motion, after due notice has been given to the Government. I hope the House will
 1053
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I was not aware before the meeting of the House of the precise proposal which my hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel Wilson Patten) was about to make with regard to metropolitan railways. I shall, of course, hesitate, without due consideration, to refuse to entertain any proposal of his on that subject, knowing the great experience my hon. and gallant Friend possesses on questions relative to the Private Business of the House, and to the difficulty encountered in forming Committees to transact it. I must, however, say that on looking into the Railway Bills for this year affecting the metropolis, the Board of Trade has not thought them of such a magnitude, or of so unusual a character, as to call upon it
 1021 1022 1023 1024 1025
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I thought I had answered the Question relating to the bridge, and I must give the same answer I did before—namely, that the railway in question was open previous to the time when the Board of Trade had any jurisdiction or power of inspection. I assume we have now power, but no representation has been made to the Board of Trade. I
 970
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I should be willing to give the hon. Baronet the particulars to which he has referred, if I had had earlier notice of the Question. As to his further inquiry—whether we have endeavoured to induce railway companies to adopt some means of communication between the passengers and guard, and between the guard and driver—my answer is, we have done so. I have myself seen the Chairman of the Committee appointed by the principal railway companies to consider the question more than once, and I have pressed upon him the necessity of doing something. The hon. Member for Dudley has given notice of a Bill on the subject, and when he brings it forward we can discuss the question.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the machinery employed was this. A schedule was drawn up by the Board of Trade, it was sent through the Post Office to the owners of live stock, and certain officers of the Inland Revenue then made up the aggregate Returns. The Vote to which the hon. Gentleman referred would be applicable to the collection of those statistics.
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, no Member of the House had been more delighted to hear the course the discussion had taken than himself. The tone that had been taken by the Government and by all the hon. Gentlemen who had spoken, showed that the House was most sincerely and most deeply anxious to maintain friendly relations with the United States of America. The hon. and learned Gentleman (the Attorney General) in the earlier part of the debate, had said, in speaking of the question of arbitration in reference to the  Alabama arbitrium. 1054 Alabamas Cries of"
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether the Papers relating to the question of Irish University education which the Government have promised to lay on the table, will include the memorials which had been presented
 968
 MR. BAXTER  asked Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If any communications have taken place between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the United States regarding the propriety of sending a joint Squadron to the Coast of Cuba, for the purpose of preventing the importation of Slaves into that Island?
 MR. DU CANE  said, that in the interest of a large number of his constituents, he must entirely endorse the statement of the hon. Gentleman, and join in the hope he had expressed, that the Government would see the necessity of taking immediate action upon the Report of the Royal Commission, and that if it were really necessary to settle the matter by an International Commission, the Government would get it appointed forthwith. He should like to see the powers of the French Convention largely altered, if not totally repealed. Since 1843 the regulations of the Convention Act had been nothing but a fruitful source of jealousy, difficulty, and misunderstanding, not merely between the fishermen of England and France, but also between our own fishermen and the Government of this country. Not only had those provisions been extensively evaded with the knowledge and consent of Her Majesty's Government, but the highest legal authorities differed as to the manner in which the regulations ought to be interpreted. It was a moot point, for example, whether the provisions of the Convention had any
 974 "It is obvious that the uncertainty attending the law must be very prejudicial to the interests of the oyster trade, and, in fact, the law is administered very differently, according to the views which the commanders of cruisers take of the Convention. A dredgerman of Colchester thus described it to us:—'The commander of one cutter will come on board a vessel and say, You ought only to have oysters of such a size; and another will say, You ought not to have a dredge on board; and a third, that we ought not to be here; and the next that we ought not to be there. What with all these different opinions, we never know what we ought to do. In point of fact, the interference to which we are subjected has regularly paralyzed our trade. We are obliged to act contrary to the law; if we did not we should starve, or should have to seek some other mode of gaining a living.'" 975 976
 MR. WATKIN  said, that he had postponed the Question and Motion of which he had given notice till to-night in deference to the wishes of hon. Members anxious to complete the discussion of the Cattle Plague Bill, and he did not regret it, for in the interval the House had learned from high authority—namely, that of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary, that the Fenian conspiracy was of American and not of Irish origin, and that it was not countenanced by the Government of the United States. This announcement was no doubt made upon definite information, and he was anxious that the House and the country should be re-assured by that information being officially made known. On the other hand, the postponement had placed him in this position, that the subject of the remarks he should have to make, though analogous to that so ably raised by the hon. Member, had been divided from it by a discussion on railways and a reply about the oyster fisheries. He could, no doubt, have imitated the example afforded him and have
 1028 1029 1030 "That its ramifications existed not only in this country, but in the States of America; that the supplies of money and of arms for the purposes of a general insurrection were being collected, not only here, but on the other side of the Atlantic; and, finally, that the object of this confederation was the overthrow of the Queen's authority, the separation of this country from Great Britain, the destruction of our present Constitution, the establishment of some democratic or military despotism, and a general division of every description of property as the result of a successful civil war." New York World "There is in this city (New York) a military engineering class of 100, taught by an engineer formerly on M'Clellan's staff in the peninsular campaign. Subscriptions are handed in to large amounts every week from all parts of the country. A bank account is kept by the Brotherhood in its own name, and a clerical force is employed to keep the accounts and attend to the correspondence of the Brotherhood. One of the bank note companies, as Colonel Roberts stated in his speech last night, are printing 8 per cent bonds in the name of the 'Irish Republic,' one and indivisible. They will be ready next week in denominations of 10 dollars, 20 dollars, 50 dollars, 100 dollars, 600 dollars, and 1,000 dollars. In the centre will be a figure of Liberty drawing a sword, and at the sides vignettes of Emmett and Lincoln. It is confidently hoped by the leaders that these will be taken up very rapidly, and that large orders will come from the country and from the West. It is stated that negotiations are pending for the purchase of eight ocean steamers, each warranted to
 1031 "There is a Secretary of War, a Secretary of the Navy, and most of the usual officers of a regularly constituted Government. The society is known to be in treaty with a gunmaker for the purchase of a large quantity of arms which he bought of the Government after the war. The agents of the Fenians have been in Washington within the last fortnight, endeavouring to ascertain whether Mr. Welles, the Secretary of the Navy, will sell them any of the vessels for which the Government has no further use. Whether they succeeded in seeing Mr. Welles or not I cannot say; but it is well known that they have had interviews with Mr. Stanton. These facts, taken together, and many other circumstances which it would be too tedious to repeat, but which are well known here, prove at least that the Fenian organization is now a power, and one which cannot be scattered by the arrest of a few of its members in Ireland." The Times, 1032 "On the occasion of my recent visit to the United States, many of these poor deluded people talked as flippantly and confidently of taking all British America in the course of this winter and holding it as if they already had the title deeds in their packets. If they come on the strength of their own resources, it will indeed be a laughable scare; and from what is now occurring at New York, we may easily foresee the glorious  denouement. 1033 1034 "If any person shall, within the territory or jurisdiction of the United States, begin or set on foot, or provide or prepare, the means for any military expedition or enterprise, to be carried on from thence against the territory or dominion of any foreign prince or State, or any colony, district, or people, with whom the United States are at peace, every person so offending shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and shall be fined not exceeding 3,000 dollars or imprisoned not more than three years. The indictment by the Crand Jury was procured at the instance of United States District Attorney Dickinson, on intimation received from the Secretary of State, who was, of course, directed in the matter by the President." Wlieaton's International Law, "By their treaties with several of the belligerent Powers, treaties forming part of the law of the land, they had established a state of peace with them. But without appealing to treaties, they were at peace with them all by the law of nature; for by the natural law, man is at peace with man till some aggression is committed, which by the same law authorizes one to destroy another, as his enemy. For the citizens of the United States, then, to commit murders and depredations on the members of other nations, or to combine to do it, appeared to the American Government as much against the laws of the land as to murder or rob, or combine to murder or rob, their own citizens; and as much to require punishment, if done within the limits where they had a territorial jurisdiction—or on the high seas, where they had a personal jurisdiction, that is to say, one which reached their own citizens only; this being an appropriate part of each nation, on an element where each has a common jurisdiction." "The same principles were afterwards incorporated in a law of Congress passed in 1794, and revised and re-enacted in 1818, by which it is declared to be a misdemeanor for any person within the jurisdiction of the United States to augment the force of any armed vessel, belonging to one foreign Power at war with another Power, with whom they are at peace; or to prepare any military expedition against the territories of any foreign nation with whom they are at peace; or to hire or enlist troops or seamen for foreign military or naval service; or to be concerned in fitting out any vessel to cruise or commit hostilities in foreign service, against a nation at peace with them; and the vessel, in this latter ease, is made subject to forfeiture." 1035 1036
 MR. WATKIN : After the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, I prefer the responsibility for its withdrawal remaining with the Government.
 MR. WATKIN : The right hon. Gentleman has not quite accurately described what I meant to say. It was that I hoped that the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleagues would be able to show the House that they had exhausted every means in their power to prevail upon the Government of the United States to fulfil the duties of neutrality, and that that Government was loyally endeavouring to do so.
 MR. WATKIN  said, that he had omitted to conclude with a Motion, believing that it was needless. He trusted he should be permitted to supply the omission. He moved for the production of the papers connected with the subjects.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that there would be no objection to laying on the table the memorials referred to by the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that Her Majesty's Government could not assent to the request of the hon. Gentleman unless the Bill were printed. Last night he strongly advised that the Bill should be printed, so as to be in the hands of hon. Members that day. This had not been done, and, considering the great number of alterations that had been made in the Bill, the Government could not adopt the course proposed by the hon. Member.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, it was the intention of the Government to
 963
 SIR JOHN WALSH  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the attention of Her Majesty's Government has been drawn to the appearance of a new disease affecting swine in parts of the Con-
 961
 SIR PERCY BURRELL  desired to add his testimony to that already given, as to the excellent condition in which the deep sea oyster was in May and June, and impressed upon the Government the necessity of their speedily taking the whole subject into consideration.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Can the right hon. Gentleman answer the Question I put to him the other night, and which he was then unable to answer? [ See page
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The intelligence was so gratifying to myself and other hon. Members that I could not forbear from saying that, in consequence, I believe, of this notice of mine—as the Chancellor of the Exchequer will tell you—nothing will be done to alter the Charter. ["Order, order!"] Well, then, I will ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer—Is it or is it not the case that since the Notice which
 966
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Perhaps it would be convenient for the House, as I have already obtained the concurrence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that I should ask the right hon. Gentleman, as the organ of the Government, a Question with respect to the subject which stands on the Notice Paper to-day in my name. I should like, with the permission of the House, to put that Question prefaced by a very few remarks, but I am altogether in the hands of the House. I think, considering the importance of the Question, and the answer given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer the other night, that the House would perhaps allow me. Sir, the Motion which stands in my name on the Paper is now well-known to hon. Members. I may be blamed because sufficient time has not been allowed to elapse between putting the Notice on the Paper, and the Motion to which that Notice refers; but I will explain how that has occurred. We—for I do not speak in my own name only, but I speak on behalf of many hon. and right hon. Members in this House—have felt that the circumstances of the case were so important, and the danger so great to the principles which were involved in the existing system of the Queen's University—namely, united secular University education for the youth of Ireland of all denominations upon a footing of complete equality—that we believed no time was to be lost in bringing the question under the notice of the House. And, even supposing I had not obtained the permission of the House to make a few remarks, such is the importance of the question that, to put myself in order, I would, if necessary, conclude by making a Motion of adjournment.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I am quite willing, Sir, to bow to your decision, but in my own justification I must say that it is at the desire of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that I rise to put this Question. I will merely say that, in consequence of the dialogue which took place between us the other night, I saw my right hon. Friend, and he informed me that there appeared to be some misunderstanding with respect to the answer which he then gave, and he told me—and it will be a great satisfaction to the House to hear it—that the Government, having seen the Notice which I put on the Paper, have been graciously pleased to yield to the general wish of the House—they have determined not to obtain the Sign Manual of the Sovereign until they have submitted the question to the judgment of the House. The Chancellor of the Exchequer will tell you so.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that perhaps he might be allowed to make a few remarks by way of introduction and explanation to the Question which stood in his name. It might not be generally known that the oyster fishers of the south coast—those, that was to say, west of the North Foreland—laboured under disabilities from which those upon all other coasts were exempt. This, however, was unfortunately the case, and for this reason:—In the year 1839 a Convention was concluded between England and France, the chief object of which was to reserve the exclusive right of fishing within a certain distance of the shore to the subjects of the respective countries. Unfortunately, those who were intrusted with the preparation of the Convention did not confine themselves to this, but drew up a series of regulations which might be found embodied in no less than eighty-nine clauses in the schedule to the Act of 1843, by which the Convention was carried into effect. These clauses contained minute regulations respecting fisheries which ought never to have formed part of such a Convention, and for this reason—that under it they were not applied to places in which France and England had common jurisdiction, but either to the sea within the three mile limit, where the municipal authorities alone had cither interest or power to enforce them, or to the deep sea beyond those limits, which was common to all the world; and in which we might create artificial disabilities for each other, but could not impose them upon other nations, who were free to act as they pleased. The attempt by France and England to enforce special restrictions in localities over which they had no power was not more reasonable than if they were to make Game Laws for the preservation of antelopes in South Africa. The framers of these regulations seemed, however, to have proceeded on the assumption that the whole channel between England and France was under the co-ordinate jurisdiction of the two countries. The moment the attempt was made to carry out the new Act it proved
 971 972 973
 MR. BAZLEY  said, he hoped that full consideration would be given to the points submitted to the House in the statement
 990
 SIR WILLIAM GALLWEY  asked the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, with a view to insure the safety of the public, he had endeavoured to impress upon the railway authorities the necessity of providing means by which passengers in railway trains could communicate with the guard of the train? He also wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether his attention has been called to a recent accident on the Great Western Railway, when, a; collision having occurred, the passengers in one of the trains were unable to escape, owing to the fact that the doors of the train were locked? He would also beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he intends to introduce a Bill by which a penalty would be imposed on all railway companies, the officers of which either did not provide sufficient means of communication between the passengers in a train and the guard, or who locked the doors of a passenger train, thus cutting off all chance of escape in case of accident?
 COLONEL KNOX  said, there certainly was a moral understanding that if the Duke conceded certain things Northumberland House should not be interfered with. If there was not a representative of the Board of Works on the Committee the late Sir Joseph Paxton was a member. And although the hon. Member for Bath refused to be a member, he was one of the most important witnesses called on behalf of that body. They also retained eminent counsel to look after their interests, and therefore it was idle to say there was no understanding about this matter. He wished to know why the original plan of a street from the Horse Guards was not to be carried out. The original plan was to take Lord Carriugton's house.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad to find there was a newly-awakened sympathy in the First Commissioner of Works for the poor, because the House could not get the least concession last Session for the labouring classes when it was proposed to make accommodation for the Law Courts by the sweeping away of the places of residence of thousands of working men, The words which had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Cowper) ought to be a lesson to all persons who had to deal with public bodies to use simple terms in their agreements and not special pleading language. The right hon. Gentleman said that there was no clause in the Act of
 1095
 VISCOUNT HAMILTON  asked the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government have received any authentic additional information on the subject of the late attempt stated to have been made to land sheep surreptitiously on the north coast of Ireland by boats from a ship bound from a Scotch to an English port?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that a Veterinary Department had been created in the month of August to deal with the emergency of the cattle plague, and it had since been in constant communication with 800 inspectors, who had sent in reports of various degrees of accuracy. The Secretary of the Department had been directed to prepare a special report for the information of the Royal Commissioners, and he believed it was nearly ready. It would contain a Return from August to the 31st of December last of the animals which had been attacked, which had died or been killed, which had recovered, and the cases which still remained. The Returns of the Secretary would also be verified up to the 31st December. It would also contain maps illustrating the monthly progress of the disease in every petty sessional division, and tabulated reports on the various methods of treatment pursued between August and December. No positive evidence had been received that the disease had changed its character; but there had been a gradual increase in the percentage of cures, from 5 to about 13½ per cent in the last week. He had received no specific information as to the treatment of cattle in Kineardineshire, but he would undertake that the weekly Returns should be as full as was consistent with the due discharge of the duties of a Department which had to deal with such an enormous mass of cases.
 MR. SURTEES  asked the President of
 1097
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my hon. Friend the Member for Brighton has, I think, been the means of giving rise to a discussion of great interest, and I trust I may assume that it is not his intention to divide the House. Although my hon. Friend has done me the honour to embody a portion of a speech of mine in his Motion, I think he will himself feel that the language in which his Motion is couched is too warmly coloured to make it suitable to convey the deliberate judgment of this House. We oftentimes speak of the system of expenditure in this country, and of early and large reductions, in a manner which if we were to employ such language to convey the deliberate views of this House would give rise to serious misapprehensions, and excite expectations which could only meet with early and, perhaps, angry disappointment. I should like, however, to make two or three remarks, because my hon. Friend the Member for Brighton has, I think, misapprehended, doubtless through my fault, the meaning which I intended to attach to any remarks of mine upon the respective responsibilities of the Government and the Parliament in relation to public expenditure. If I have ever said anything which has led my hon. Friend to suppose, as he evidently does suppose, that I think when an Estimate is proposed by a Ministry to Parliament, and is debated by Parliament, the principal responsibility of that Estimate rests with Parliament, and not with the Ministry who proposed it, I can only express my regret at having been accessory to the spreading of a most mischievous opinion. A Government is responsible for all the expenditure it proposes. Parliament, no doubt, is responsible as towards the people in its own measure and degree; but the principal responsibility rests entirely with the advisers of the Crown. If there is a fundamental difference of view between the advisers of the Crown and the House of Commons in relation to expenditure, the only course open to those advisers is to tender their resignations, for the difference is irremediable. The right hon. Baronet (Sir Stafford Northcote) has also shared in this misapprehension; because, in the course of his intelligent speech, which
 1132 1133 1134 1135
 ADMIRAL SEYMOUR  said, he was surprised at one omission in the noble Lord's speech. He alluded to the report with respect to the Masters—namely, that the Admiralty proposed to do away with that valuable class of the Royal Navy, and had already stopped the entry of Masters' assistants. It was an important and, in his opinion, an ill-advised change, for he could bear testimony to the efficiency of the Masters. He did not desire to remove responsibility from the captains of men-of-war; but he was of opinion that they should have such assistance as the Masters had hitherto afforded them. If the proposed change were carried out the duty formerly discharged by the Master would fall upon the lieutenants, who in their young days were not so educated as to enable them to give the needful assistance to the captain. They had had no opportunities of obtaining a knowledge of pilotage and surveying, being occupied with the duties of the ship, and preparations for their examination in mathematics, gunnery, steam, and the amount of navigation necessary to work what is called a college sheet. The attention of the navigating officer should be constantly directed to practical nautical surveying to charts, currents, bearings, &c. It would take a lieutenant a long time to acquire sufficient knowledge, after he had been made a lieutenant, to perform the duties of the Master; and every one could understand how important those duties would become in time of war. The occurrences in the Baltic during the late war might be cited as instances in proof that the present system worked well. It was said the French did without Masters, but their system of promotion was the exact opposite of the English plan. The junior members of the French navy were promoted by seniority, the older members by selection, and he was assured that during the action of the combined fleets in the Baltic almost all the soundings were taken by the English. The Masters had also the charge of stores, which could only have the general supervision of the captain, and if the superintendence of stores was taken out of the present experienced hands, he was afraid
 1172
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to express his concurrence in the principle of the measure, but he wished to know whether the Bill would apply to other diseases besides the cattle plague. He thought the machinery with regard to raising money somewhat cumbrous, and that it would be better if the money were advanced by the Treasury, first of all, in the ordinary way, as in the case of lunatic asylums, and that it should be re-imbursed by a charge on the
 1178
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, that the 10th section of the Bill showed clearly that the fund was intended to defray, not merely the cost of compensation to owners of cattle compulsorily slaughtered, but also the expenses of carrying the Bill into execution. The Report of December 6 of the Irish Committtee upon the Cattle Plague had been fully acted upon, inspectors had been appointed, and the utmost diligence used. The Bill was intended to be a permanent Bill, giving the Lord Lieutenant in Council the powers of 11 & 12  Vict.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, he congratulated his noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty on the lucid and comprehensive manner in which he had submitted the Estimates to the consideration of the Committee. He must at the same time observe that in his opinion we had gone on incurring heavy expenditure in the construction of our iron-clad vessels, without being perfectly convinced of the soundness of the principle on which we had proceeded. It was a question open to serious discussion, whether we had adopted a politic course in building these stupendous vessels, and whether a smaller class of vessels might not be more useful and more readily handled. He would urge upon the Government, looking at the rapid strides of science, and the efforts of other Powers to strengthen their navies, to take timely forethought and save expense, so far as that could be done consistently with the national honour. Hitherto the country had gone on incurring expense without satisfaction to themselves or to the public. The vessel of 4,000 tons burden as proposed by Captain Coles had all the advantages which were claimed for the enormous vessels which they bad been building. He was of opinion that vessels of much smaller burden would be found more efficient for the public service than vessels of so large a size, costing so large a sum, and which, in the event of war becoming crippled, we should not have the means of docking and repairing. It was to be stated to the honour of the country, that it had never been backward in responding to any call which it was found necessary to make, in order to preserve the efficiency of the navy. The country had demanded nothing more in return than a rigid supervision of
 1170
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the attention of the Government has been called to the great decrease in the number of Apprentices and Boys borne by our merchant ships, and the increased employment of Foreign Seamen; whether their attention has been called to the great prevalence of scurvy in the Merchant Navy; and whether, under these circumstances, any measures will be taken to extend to the crews of Merchant Ships the benefits derived from that system of inspection of provisions and accommodation now in force in respect to emigrants, convicts, and other passengers?
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : I wish to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the statistics with reference to the existing constituencies are complete, and when they will be laid upon the table?
 LORD ELCHO  said, the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Southwark had suggested that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bath was not a fitting representative of the Metropolitan Board of Works in that House. [Mr. LOCKE: On this occasion.] Well, if any other Gentleman be substituted he hoped it would not be the hon. and learned Member for Southwark, for a more extraordinary doctrine with regard to the rights of property he had never heard laid down than had been laid down by that hon. and learned Gentleman. He said that if one individual happened to be the proprietor of a house and five acres of land in the centre of a great city, that on that account Parliament should be called upon to take it from him. Now he (Lord Elcho) protested against any public board or private party roughly overriding the rights of property, if his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke had gone to a division he should have supported him, not because this was the property of a Duke, not because of any want of courtesy shown to him, but on the ground of want of faith on the part of the Metropolitan Board of Works. A bargain had been entered into by one body, a subsequent body succeeded to the responsibility, and then tried to override the arrangement which had been made in 1862. It might be all very well for the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Southwark to state there was no sympathy in that House for the labouring classes in reference to the destruction of their residences for railway purposes, and that the hon. Member for Lambeth had been the first to call attention to it; but he (Lord Elcho) begged to remind hon. Members that the first voice raised on behalf of the labouring classes against the selfish interests of railway companies was by Lord Derby. The Metropolitan Board of Works had endeavoured to repudiate a former undertaking, and it occurred to him that some Minister ought to be held responsible for the due performance of any promise or arrangement honestly and honourably arrived at. But he had another objection to the Bill, and that was on account of the 20th clause, which provided that notice was to be given of taking the houses of the labouring classes precisely in the same way as notice was given by railway companies. He was happy to find that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets had given notice of a Motion for the appointment of a Committee to con-
 1093
 MR. COWPER  said, he should not like it to go forth to the country that the Metropolitan Board of Works had deliberately proposed a breach of faith as had been stated. This House ought to be exceedingly stern with reference to any allegations of breach of engagements between parties promoting Private Bills, and if the Metropolitan Board had proposed such a violation of good faith their Bill ought to have been thrown out. The allegation of a breach of faith which had been made against the Metropolitan Board rested on their alleged violation of the provision of the 53rd clause of the Act of 1862. Now, neither the 53rd nor any other clause contained any provision with reference to Northumberland House. The object of the Bill—for which he was responsible—was to reclaim land on the banks of the Thames in front of Northumberland House. There were certain wharves before Northumberland House which the Metropolitan Board could either buy or else could make compensation for any injury that might be done to them. The Duke of Northumberland expressed a wish that these wharves should not be bought, and a clause was then introduced into the Act forbidding the purchase of the wharves without the authority of the Duke of Northumberland. By another clause in the Act it was determined that no houses were to be erected on the plot of ground before the house. There was no direct reference to Northumberland House. It was not inserted in the schedule, neither was there, nor could there be, any understanding that at some future time Northumberland House should not be taken if it was required. That was the view taken by himself and the Metropolitan Board of Works. Not only was Northumberland House not mentioned in the clause, but it was not mentioned in the Bill. He thought it right, on behalf of a public body, to say that, in proposing this scheme, the Metropolitan Board of Works might fairly suppose they were not departing from any agreement previously entered into with the Duke of Northumber land. While he thought it his duty to make this explanation to the House, he should express his full concurrence in the resolution come to by the Metropolitan Board, and announced to the House by the
 1094
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he hoped the Committee would assent to the Vote for the number of men. The subject of the navy could be resumed on Thursday.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, in rising to move the consideration of the Navy Estimates for 1866–7, I should have no right, under ordinary circumstances, to claim the indulgence of the Committee, because the performance of the duty for the eighth time ought, ordinarily, to present no great difficulty. To-night, however, I approach the subject under some oppression. First of all, I miss, on both sides of the House, many familiar faces of those who used to take part in these discussions, and thereby render very great service to the navy—Mr. Lindsay, Mr. George Bentinck, Sir Frederick Smith, and many others. I cannot but regret their absence on the present occasion. Another cause of greater oppression and
 1143 1144 matériel personnel personnel 1145 personnel matériel 1146 personnel matériel personnel matériel. personnel matériel matériel personnel matériel for matériel matériel. matériel matériel 1147 personnel. 1148 1149 Monarch. 1150 Hercules Bellerophon. Amazon Amazons Bombay 1151 matériel 1152 1153 1154 1155 "The report on crime and punishment in the navy, made up to the end of the year 1864, will show the satisfactory state of the discipline and condition of the fleet. The convictions are fewer than in the year preceding. There have been fewer cases of drunkenness, theft, and gross acts of insubordination; and even the offence of being absent without leave has very much declined, although the amount of leave given has been greater than at any former period. The number of persons discharged with disgrace or as objectionable was only 200 in 1864, against 530 in 1863. In 1864, 577 men and boys were corporally punished against 1,012 in 1862, and 752 in 1863. The proportions are as follows:—In 1862 one in every 54 persons; in 1863 one in 66; and in 1864 one in 84. On the home station, including the Channel Squadron and the Coastguard ships, the proportion, irrespective of boys, is only one to about every 600 men. Imprisonments have declined, so also have the other major punishments, such as disrating, deprivation of good conduct badges, reduction to the second class for conduct, and so forth. If any further proof be required of the improved and improving conduct of the men of the fleet, that proof is afforded in the statistics of courts martial, where we find the remarkable fact recorded that the convictions in those courts have fallen from 140 in 1863, to 97 in 1864. The desertions are decreased from 5 per cent in 1862 to 2¼ percent in 1865." 1156 1157
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Sir, I wish to call the attention of the House, before going into Committee of Supply, to a subject which I consider almost of national importance. It certainly affects all of us very nearly. Some of us have to endure evils—which might easily be remedied—for six months in the year. The rest have to undergo them from one year's end to the other. I suppose this is a subject which no metropolitan Member can take up without either offending his constituents or sacrificing his conscience. I propose to ask a question instead of moving for a Committee, because of some words which fell from the Home Secretary last year on the Motion for a Commission to consider this very point. He said he did not understand what advantage would result from the appointment of a Commission, because the facts were already known. If it was not necessary that a Commission should then be appointed, still less is it necessary that a Committee should now inquire into the matter; and, therefore, I shall content myself with asking whether the right hon. Baronet intends to introduce any legislation on the subject. Before putting the question, however, I will say a few words to point out the evil. This is, I suppose, the largest and most opulent city in the world; yet there is, not a small borough in the kingdom which might not favourably compare with it in results. On the other side of the water Paris is infinitely more beautiful, more clean, and more convenient than London; yet it is not nearly so wealthy. In Paris the municipality actually find their improvements are a source of revenue. Here we have no improvement, yet our rates are always heavy. What is the want? What is the deficiency? First, we want those to rule, who have a sense of responsibility, and of shame—not those who are so low that public opinion and the public prints never reach them. Secondly, we want those to rule who could devote their time to it—not those who hasten carelessly over the business, in order that they may be able to run away to their money-making pursuits. These two objects
 1136 1137 1138 1139 1140 1141
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he was
 1089 plus 1090
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he was sorry at so late a period of the evening to move an Amendment on this Bill, but to his mind it was of so important a character that, although he knew the necessity for expedition in passing the Bill, he could not refrain from pressing the Amendment of which he had given notice. He expressed his regret at seeming to oppose the Secretary of State for the Colonies. But the right hon. Gentleman was spoiling his own measure by the insertion of words which had the effect of limiting the existence of the new Constitution to three years. He thought that the effect of the Bill would be entirely destroyed if the new Constitution were so limited. He opposed that limitation for four reasons. In the first place, the new Govern-
 1174 1175 "Where there is no wide basis for constituent and representative power and responsibility to rest upon, there in no eligible alternative but to vest power and responsibility substantially in the Crown."
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that this was a matter that had been settled for some years past by courts of law. The principle laid down was that everything above the surface and below the surface was to be considered as "land." Upon this principle the pipes used by water companies under the surface are rateable, and the wire3 which conduct the electric fluid, whether through the air or under water or in the soil, constitute an occupation of the land, and as such form a subject to be rated. With regard to the means of estimating the precise value of the wires, that is left to the judgment of the assessment committees of unions through which they pass, subject to the provisions of the Assessment Act.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he wished for a few moments to call the attention of the House to some of the very extraordinary
 1129 1130 1131
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the view which he himself had always entertained was that a permanent measure was necessary for the welfare of Jamaica, and before the disturbances he was engaged in prosecuting inquiries, which he hoped would lead to the appointment of a Committee and consequent legislation. The reason he proposed a temporary measure was because he had not had the opportunity of completing those inquiries, and he thought that the Bill might be passed in its present shape with an engagement from the Government to submit the subject again to consideration; but if it was the feeling of the Committee that it was necessary to have the Bill in a permanent shape he would readily consent to the proposal.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that while the Secretary to the Admiralty had informed the Committee that a reduction had been effected in the Naval Service of the country, he had not been able to show that there had been any corresponding diminu-
 1168 Warrior Black Prince Achilles Vesta Warrior 1169
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped that before the Chairman reported Progress, he might be allowed to take two Supplemental Civil Estimates.
 MR. CRUM-EWING  said, that having given notice of a somewhat similar Amendment, he begged to say a few words on the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman. He considered the limitation of the Bill to three years implied a doubt as to the wis-
 1176
 MR. DYCE NICOL  asked the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, whether any steps had been taken to obtain, through the local authorities in districts infected with the cattle disease, accurate weekly information as to the number of cattle "attacked, killed, died, and recovered;" and also as to the success of preventive and curative treatment in those districts, and whether there was any change in the character of the disease since its first appearance? He wished also to ask, whether the Government had received any information as to a new mode of cure introduced by Mr. Alexander and followed up by Mr. Low, under which the percentage of recoveries had been 90 per cent?
 MR. WHITE,  in rising to move the Resolutions of which he had given notice, said, he did so in accordance with an intimation he had made in the last Parliament. In one of those fascinating surveys of our financial prospects in which he annually indulged, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on the 27th of April last, took occasion to remark on the approaching general election and the contingent responsibilities of the new Parliament, and in the course of some humble criticisms of his own upon the right hon. Gentleman's observations, he had then ventured to hope that when the new Parliament was returned that House would feel itself bound to insist, as strongly as possible, upon the adoption of a judicious system of retrenchment in every branch of the public service consistently with its efficiency, and would refuse its confidence to any Government that required as the normal expenditure of the country a larger sum than £60,000,000 annually. It was the duty of Members of that House jealously and vigilantly to watch over the public expenditure, and to check those pernicious and powerful influences which were
 1099 1100 "Let us see how matters stand; and before I enter into it I will just say that I am not satisfied, as far as I am individually concerned." "I am not satisfied, as far as I am individually-concerned, that the expenditure of the country has yet been reduced to the lowest point consistent with honour and security." "Therefore, I will say this, and say it without the smallest doubt, that if the electoral body of this country desire that reduction shall be effected in that expenditure, they have only to send to Parliament men who sympathize with that view, and the result they wish will infallibly be attained." "A very heathen in the carnal part, Yet still a sad good Christian at her heart." 1101 "It has raised a larger revenue than I believe ever at any period of peace, or even of war, after taking into account the changes in the value of money, was raised by taxation within an equal space of time; and the expenditure has been upon a scale that has never before been reached in time of peace." 1102 s. 1103 1104 "We are passing into the dangerous state of things in which the House of Commons, instead of being the jealous, vigilant, effectual controller of those proposals for expenditure which it is the duty of the executive Government to make, tends itself to become the promoter and the stimulator of public expenditure, forcing it upon the executive Government in every form of Question, of Motion, of suggestion … and ever actively tending to make invasions upon the public purse. … Most earnestly do I hope that in the new Parliament we shall witness a different state of things, and that the representatives of the people will, especially among the Opposition, resume their legitimate office of limiting and confining, not of promoting and enlarging public expenditure." 1105 "Lord Stanley, the other day, declared he could see his way to an annual expenditure of £60,000,000 per annum, and I suppose that when Mr. Gladstone sees distinguished Members making such a statement he will hasten on to that amount for fear he should be taken up by the other side." 1106 "He regarded the process by which the Estimates were said to be discussed in Committee of Supply with a feeling akin to hopelessness and despair." "In 1848 the Army and Navy Estimates were £17,000,000."[They were now £25,000,000.] "But they had then reached' a point beyond the patient endurance of Parliament; and the House gave such undoubted indication of its determination not to entertain those Estimates that the Government withdrew them, re-considered them, and referred them in a revised shape to a Committee, the result of all which operations was that they were reduced by an extent not far short of £3,000,000."—[3  Hansard "That, in order to secure to the country that relief which it justly expects, it is necessary, in the judgment of this House, to revise and further reduce the Expenditure of the State." 1107 1108 1109 s. s. d. s. s. d. d. s. d. "That the expenditure of the Government has of late years been excessive. That it was and is now taken in great measure out of the earnings of the People, and forms in no small degree a deduction from a scanty store which is necessary
 1110
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, that practical seamen appeared to agree that great speed was not compatible with heavy weight unless there were a great displacement. In confirmation of this he could appeal to the hon. Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird). Two of his ships, the  Wyvern Scorpion 1171
 MR. LOCKE  said, he did not understand the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stoke, or what it was he wanted more than he had already got. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Bath, who moved the second reading of the Bill, having abandoned every principle and object which the Metropolitan Board of Works had in view, the course pursued by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stoke was most ungenerous. He thought the hon. Gentleman ought to be perfectly well satisfied. As he understood it, the Metropolitan Board of Works had proposed the construction of a handsome street from Trafalgar Square to the Embankment. There was one house, that of the Duke of Northumberland, in the way of accomplishing that object, and therefore the Board must abandon their scheme Very little notice was taken when the Metropolitan Board of Works, or any of the great railway companies, proposed to tear down the houses of thousands of the labouring classes and throw the inhabitants on the wide world. But the sympathy of the hon. Member for Stoke and other hon. Members was roused when it was proposed to interfere with the
 1091
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he could not help thinking that in examining the Estimates a practical result could not be arrived at if hon. Members did not look at those Estimates in connection with the general state of the fleet. In regarding the figures then before them, it must occur to every one that they were asked to agree to Estimates which provided, or purported to provide, an addition to our navy to only a very small extent. It appeared to him, if he understood the figures, that two armour-clad vessels only were intended to be added to the navy, and that the construction of these was to extend over two years, which would give only one iron-clad ship for this financial year. To ascertain whether this was sufficient to satisfy the wants of the public he would review, as briefly as possible, the vessels we now had of that class. It would
 1164 Warrior Black Prince Defence Resistance. Royal Oak 1165 Agincourt Royal Sovereign Prince Albert. Agincourt Agincourt Royal Sovereign Royal Sovereign 1166 1167
 MR. MARSH  said, that having himself on a former occasion brought forward the subject of the Civil Service Estimates, he hoped he should be permitted to make a few remarks. The hon. Member for Brighton said the amount raised from the people by taxation was £70,000,000; but it was considerably more, because the consumers were charged with profits on the amount of the tax. For instance, if there was a duty of 3 s. 1113 1114 Mermaid 1115
 MR. LAING : Sir, regret that the hon. Member for Brighton should have so worded his Resolution as to make it impossible for me to go into the same lobby with him. Nothing is to be gained by vague and exaggerated statements, or by mixing up political with financial questions. Such statements tend to throw discredit upon those who advocate real economy, and to confound in the public mind two totally different characters—-the practical reformer and the professional agitator. An attempt is here made to import subjects of political agitation into questions which, properly speaking, lie in the domain of economy. The Resolution, as it stands, contains the gravest charges which it is possible to bring against the Government of the country, and against the political system by which that Government is supported. It states that the expenditure of the country has not only been excessive and extravagant, but that the political system which encourages this extravagant expenditure throws the burden of it so unfairly upon the unrepresented classes as not only to deprive them in a great measure of the comforts, but even to stint them of the barest necessities of life. Were that statement true, it would be the best apology for Fenianism,
 1119 1120 1121 bond fide 1122 1123 reductio ad, absurdum 1124 octroi 1125 1126 1127 1128
 MR. T. MILLER  said, he could not blame the course that had been pursued in this matter by the Metropolitan Board of Works and the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bath. The Metropolitan Board of Works had nothing whatever to do with the arrangement with the Duke of Northumberland, which it was now said was sought to be broken. It was more important that they should keep their pledge than that the public should get a new street. If it had been the feeling of the noble Duke to allow this to be made it would have been one of the finest in Europe. But they felt bound in honour to respect every arrangement entered into, whether with a rich or a poor man, and when this proposal was introduced into the Bill it was under the impression that it met with the Duke's approval.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The attention of the Government has not been called to any great decrease in the number of apprentices borne by our merchant ships. The number of apprentices annually enrolled has varied but little during the last six years, being between 5,000 and 6,000 a year, There is an increase in the number of foreign seamen employed, but whether the proportion of foreign seamen to the whole number of men serving in the mercantile marine is greater than during the- last few years I cannot say without a careful examination of the Returns. Representations have been made with regard to the existence of scurvy among the crews of some merchant vessels. In one instance, where there has evidently been great neg-
 1098
 MR. BAXTER  said, it was impossible to call attention too frequently and prominently to the question of national expenditure. Of late years it had been frequently said, and it had also been stated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that that House had abdicated its functions of checking the expenditure of the Government, and had itself, on the contrary, initiated great schemes involving the expenditure of enormous sums, which the Ministers did not seem to think necessary. He hoped the new House would not follow the pernicious example of its predecessors, but would carefully examine every item of the Estimates. He entirely concurred in the remark of the hon. Member for Brighton that it was impossible to sit in that House night after night, and go over the thousand and one Votes submitted to them, to do any substantial good. They would very rarely succeed in getting any item knocked off, and if they did, it would be something quite immaterial. The matter should be looked at as a whole, and the issue raised on the gross sum required by Government. He agreed with the hon. Member for Brighton that the present expenditure of the country was excessive. How stood the case? He believed he was not wrong in stating that the British people and statesmen on both sides of the House had made up their minds not to meddle in
 1111 1112
 MR. FERRAND  asked the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty if the Return he moved for on Friday last would be in the hands of the Committee before Vote No. 3 was taken?
 MR. TITE  said, he had put a notice upon the paper of his intention to move that the second reading of the Bill should be postponed to the 16th of March, and he proposed that postponement with a view to seeing whether it was possible, within the limits of deviation, to change the approaches to the Embankment from Charing Cross so as to avoid Northumberland House. That postponement was opposed at the instance
 1087 1088
 SIR GEORGE GREY : They are not yet quite complete, but I hope they will be ready at a very early period. No time will be lost in laying them on the table.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : A report reached the Irish Government that an attempt had been made to land sheep on the north coast of Ireland, but no specific information of time or place was given. It is supposed that some sheep were landed upon an unfrequented part of the coast from a ship bound from Scotland to England. Instructions, however, have been given to
 1096
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, it is quite true, as the noble Lord has stated, that when a Motion was made on this subject last Session I objected to the appointment of a Commission to inquire into the facts, because, as I said, they were notorious, and every one knew the great inconvenience resulting from the multitude of local authorities in London. I did not state that it would be inexpedient to inquire into the best modes of remedying the existing defects. But I stated that my own impression was that it would be desirable to give a more extended jurisdiction to the Metropolitan Board of Works, to enable them to superintend the paving, cleansing, and lighting of streets, not by superseding the existing local bodies, but by exercising a superintendence over them, and seeing that they perform efficiently all those duties which the law casts upon them, and which are now most imperfectly discharged. During the recess I have been in communication with the Metropolitan Board of Works, which appointed a committee to consider this question. The result of the deliberations of that committee has been that they were not prepared to recommend the consolidation of all existing boards and vestries; but that they are favourable to some extension of the appellate or superintending jurisdiction of the Board which already exists in some cases, such as those as to streets where one side was in one and the other in another jurisdiction. With regard to such streets they have already power to interfere and compel unity of action. That power has been exercised, I think, in St. James' Street, to prevent public inconvenience. With regard to streets being torn up by gas companies, I do not think that arises from any defect in London as distinguished from any other place. Any large city or borough may be subjected to the same inconvenience, because the companies obtain from Parliament powers which they exercise in defiance of local authority, I suppose that the same thing may be done in Manchester or Liverpool, although each place is governed
 1142
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he hoped the noble Lord (Lord Clarence Paget) did not intend to go into the Estimates at that late hour of the evening (twenty minutes past nine o'clock). It was not probable the noble Lord would obtain a vote that night.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, my noble Friend commenced his address by referring to the number of years in succession in which he has brought the annual statement touching the navy before the House. He has uniformly made that statement with so much frankness and fairness that it really always became a very unplensant duty to enter into any part of it in which a difference of opinion would arise. I am therefore rejoiced that, at all events in one very important portion of those Estimates, the first, I think, to which my noble Friend referred, I am enabled to state most cordially my concurrence in the course which the Government has adopted. Looking at the magnitude of the sum for which Parliament is asked, the reduction is so trifling that, as my noble Friend stated, the Estimates must be considered the same as they were last year. The saving made is to be found in the Votes for the men and shipbuilding, and the first part of my noble Friend's statement was devoted to the explanation of the circumstance that, while this saving had been effected, the general amount of the Estimates remains the same. This is explained by the fact that there has been a great increase in our dock accommodation. The total expenditure in this respect has been no less than £1,500,000 for Portsmouth, and I think very little less for Chatham. New Members may not be aware that this part of the Estimates is the result of the deliberation of a Committee of the House of Commons appointed the year before last to consider the amount of dock accommodation at Portsmouth. The result of the inquiries of that Committee was that the whole of our system of shipbuilding, having been in a state of transition, rendered it imperatively necessary for the public service that the great increase in the size of our ships should be met by a proportionate increase in dock accommodation for the care of them. This is the true explanation
 1158 personnel matériel 1159 "The first proposal we have to make is that, if possible, we should endeavour to construct a ship upon the turret principle which shall be a real sea-going vessel."—[3  Hansard 1160 Royal Sovereign 1161 Alabamas. Amazons. "Our further operations in the dockyards will be the building of four swift ships, not armour-plated, but trusting wholly to their speed and armament—vessels which I may describe by a name familiar to everybody as an improved class of  Alabamas. Alabama." Hansard, c Amazon Agincourt 1162 Pallas 1163
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, it was desirable that there should be no misunderstanding about the matter. He concurred with the hon. Baronet the Member for Bristol that the Committee should have the right of entering fully into the subject on a future day.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he objected to the Vote being taken, unless it was understood that the Committee might go into the whole question of the navy on a future night. His object was to prevent any hon. Member from being precluded to enter on any subject connected with the navy by the forms of the House.
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, the importance of the question required the serious consideration of Parliament, and as it was then too late to fully discuss the question, he moved that the Chairman should report Progress. Sir Morton Peto.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, it was incumbent on some one on the Opposition side of the House to Bay a few words, lest it should be supposed that Members sitting there allowed judgment to go by default on the accusation, thrown out by one or two hon. Gentlemen, that they encouraged all the extravagant expenditure complained of, and that all the economy came from the Benches opposite. It was natural that some one on that (the Opposition) side should rise and protest against such a doctrine. He did not say that there had never been an occasion on which hon. Members on that side had pressed upon Government an expenditure that was undesirable and unnecessary, or that hon. Gentlemen on the other side had not done anything to promote economy. That section of the House to which the hon. Member for Brighton adhered was no doubt deemed to be the most economically disposed section. He, nevertheless, could point out several Members on his own side who had uniformly taken part in discussions in Supply, and who had frequently—and sometimes not unsuccessfully—urged on the Government measures for the reduction of the expenditure. He could say that on that side there was a real hearty disposition—as far as was consistent with what they believed to be important for the service of the country—to curtail expenditure. But who was to blame for this extravagant
 1116 1117 1118
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he entirely concurred in this Amendment. One of the principal objects of the change in the Constitution was to put an end to the political animosities resulting from frequent elections, which in Jamaica had led to the formation of a white party and a black party, and, in fact, to a conflict of races. Would this be effected by a temporary measure? By no means. The evil would rather be intensified. The moment the island, which had been terrified into unprecedented unanimity, recovered its usual tone a regret would spring up for the loss of patronage and position, and agitation would commence with all its attendant evils, increasing as time drew on, and when the three years had expired, should the Governor be unpopular—and there had been only one or two since emancipation who had not been so—or should the Colonial Office be out of favour, as it almost always was, there would be a clamour for the old institutions; and should there be a weak Government in this country, and we knew that Governments were sometimes weak, it might yield to what might be mistaken for the general wish, and the last state of Jamaica would be worse than the first. Hon. Members must not suppose that Government by a Council meant monopoly of power by the whites. In Trinidad a few years ago one of the most respected members of the Council was a
 1177
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been called to statements made in the  London and China Telegraph
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the literal answer to the noble Lord's question was very easily given. His attention had been called to the statement made in the  London and China Telegraph 1195 1196
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had no objection to the introduction of the Bill, but must reserve his opinion as to particular clauses.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, it was not his intention to offer any objection to the introduction of the Bill; but he must suppose that his hon. Friend would take proper care so to arrange the measure as to make it accord with the rules of the House when he did introduce it. The Bill of last Session had met with greater favour with Colonial Governors than his hon. Friend was aware of. He could not admit that it had been entirely inoperative, because it appeared from the papers which had just been laid on the table that seven Colonial Governors had already received well-merited pensions, so that instead of the measure being considered valueless it had been properly appreciated. He thought it would be better to postpone the consideration of the provisions of the Bill of his hon. Friend till the House had had an opportunity of seeing it. His hon. Friend understood the great difficulty everybody had to encounter with a Bill of this kind, and he could not hold out any encouragement that Her Ma-
 1203
 MR. OTWAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India,
 1199
 MR. F. S. POWELL  said, he gladly welcomed any measure having for its object to render more efficient the Free Public Libraries.
 THE CHANCELLOR or THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, my hon. Friend need not expect opposition. On the contrary, the Government will afford him every support and assistance for the success of his Bill. I cannot refrain from seizing this opportunity of cordially congratulating my hon. Friend on having been permitted, during a long and honourable Parliamentary life, to see the gradual development of the fruit of his labour, and to watch these institutions spread throughout the great centres of population where it is so desirable they should exist. My hon. Friend's name is associated with many achievements of public utility, but with this act of legislation, I think, he may feel assured that
 1235
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he was glad his hon. Friend the Member for the City (Mr. Crawford) had put the telegraphic before the postal communication, but he did not concur with his hon. Friend the Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall) that he ought to have omitted the postal communication altogether. On the contrary, he believed the one was so connected with the other that a Committee would arrive at very imperfect conclusions if it separated them. In expressing the gratitude of the mercantile community to his lion. Friend for having
 1231
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to make a personal explanation which was forced from him. In former years he had warned the House against being led astray by recommendations with respect to telegraphic communications with the East, made by hon. Members on behalf of undertakings in which they were personally interested. In doing so there was no intention to make any reflection on any particular person, and least of all was there any such intention with respect to his hon. Friend (Mr. Crawford). In the year 1857 his hon. Friend had distinctly recommended that public money should be used in order to establish a line of railway in connection with India. Not having any official responsibility, he did what he hoped independent Members would ever agree to do—defend the public purse. On that occasion he said the House of Commons should regard with great jealousy recommendations made by Members of Parliament of schemes which, however interesting they might be from a benevolent point of view, were substantially commercial undertakings, and ought to be allowed to stand or fall as such. That was the head and front of his offending.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, across the table, that it was not competent to the hon. Member at such a stage of the Bill to introduce so important a Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was in hopes the few words he had spoken across the table would have relieved the Committee from the necessity of discussing the Amendment. The hon. Gentleman had not taken his seat in the House in the present Parliament for the first time, and therefore ought to be aware that the course which he was pursuing was almost without parallel. The proposal by private Members of public charges was well-known to be opposed to all the rules laid down by the House for its own guidance, although within the last few years words had been inserted by means of which those rules had been rendered ineffective. The point, however, to which he wished to call special attention, was that of founding on a document not in the hands of Members—
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is not a Parliamentary paper.
 LORD NAAS : I moved for it a few days since.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Well, be that as it might, he did not think the hon. Member—who had given no notice of his Amendment—were he to ransack the Votes of the House from one end to the other, would find an example of such a proceeding as that to which he had just had recourse. He proposed, in a House of not more than forty Members, and upon the discussion of the clauses of a Bill in reference to which not a single notice of Amendment had been given, to lay down a totally different principle on the question of compensation from that which had received the sanction of Parliament in the case of England. For his own part he had not had an opportunity of considering that proposal at all, and he must not be regarded as giving to it any encouragement under the circumstances. He would, however, put it to the hon. Gentleman, as a matter of propriety, whether he would press his Amendment?
 LORD NAAS  said, he would suggest that a larger sum than 2 d. d. d.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the hon. Gentleman might have adopted the very obvious course of giving private notice on the subject to his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, who might then have postponed the Committee on the Bill.
 LORD NAAS  said, he considered the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been a little too hard, under the circumstances, on his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. S. B. Miller). Although the latter might have made an unusual Motion, it was by no means unparliamentary. He should be sorry to delay the progress of the Bill, even if they obtained the object his hon. and learned Friend had in view. He hoped, as the opinion of the Committee was against him, that he would consent to withdraw his Amendment. The proposition, it was but right he should say, had been well considered in Ireland, and he did not see that his hon. and learned Friend was to blame in bringing the subject before the Committee. It was thought in Ireland that the extra duties which the constabulary and others (who were paid out of the Consolidated Fund) would have to perform under this Bill might be paid by the country.
 LORD ELCHO  said, with regard to the general questions before the House, there were few which required more careful inquiry than the local management and general taxation of the metropolis. But there was another subject upon which he wished to say a few words, and that was with regard to the comforts of the poorer classes. One would have imagined from what had passed that up to the present Session no one had ever taken into consideration how public improvements, whether in the shape of railways or others, might affect the working classes of this city. Now, it was only due to Parliament to say that a Standing Order—No. 91, made in 1865—of the House of Lords required that—
 "In the case of any Bill for making any works requiring compulsory powers for taking houses occupied wholly or partially by tenants or lodgers, the promoters should be obliged to deposit in the office of the Clerk of the Parliaments by a certain day a statement of the number, description, and situation of such houses, the number of persons to be displaced, and whether any or what provisions were made in the Bill to remedy the evils of such displacement." 1215
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would not have risen but for certain observations which he had heard with some apprehension, and coming from the quarter they did, that apprehension was by no means diminished. He referred to what had fallen on the question of taxation from the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite), who held a responsible position in that House. Now, he felt it his duty not to let this matter go further without at once expressing a very earnest hope that neither a Committee of that House, nor that House collectively, would approve what the remarks of the hon. Member led him to think the Metropolitan Board of Works were hankering after— namely, a continuance of the coal tax for metropolitan improvements. The hon.
 1213
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he regretted to hear the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell), and the hon. Member for Marylebone, express a hope that the Committee which had been consented to by Her Majesty's Government would pass by a certain point of taxation which would be brought before them. The question of metropolitan taxation was of the greatest importance, and he considered that the Committee ought to inquire into every possible source of local rating, in order that they might thus, if it be possible, discover some means of reducing the present high rate of taxation. He hoped that the Committee would fully inquire into these matters, and would do everything in their power to place the metropolitan taxation in a more satisfactory position than it now occupied, making the expenditure press as lightly as possible on the poorer ratepayers.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had ventured on Monday to remark that no metropolitan Member could touch this subject without danger of either offending his constituents or sacrificing his conscience. He presumed that the fear of offending his constituents had led the hon. Member to adopt a course which good taste might have induced him to disapprove. In disregard of a rule of debate, the hon. Member had quoted his speech of last night, and alluded to himself, although not byname, telling him that he was not to abuse individuals. The hon. Member had, however, shown how he could be praise certain individuals; his enemies might say indeed that he had fawned
 1210 The Times, 1211
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would recommend the hon. and learned Gentleman not to divide the Committee, as in the then state of the House it might become a dropped Order.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that independently
 1234
 MR. AYRTON  said, he should not be justified in troubling the House with many observations, because statements had already been made in the House bearing on the conclusion at which he wished to arrive. But he felt it necessary to make a few remarks in order to prevent any misapprehension respecting the motives and objects which he had in view. It was easy to suggest a theory for getting rid of all inconveniences which annoyed the inhabitants of the metropolis, but when the subject was considered practically it was beset with considerable difficulties—not the least of which was the immense magnitude of the undertaking. They had to deal with an area larger than that of any other city—some 70,000 acres, with a population approaching 3,000,000, occupying 360,000 houses. The value of the property at stake could only be measured by its rateable value, which amounted to £13,000,000. The real annual value was probably not less than £15,000,000. It was not easy to grapple with such a state of things, but the difficulty was increased when it was known that for 200 years the metropolis had been allowed to grow up and govern itself in the manner which accorded most with the views of the various local bodies. The result was a most extraordinary chaos. Everything connected with local government had degenerated into abuse. The interests of the community were sacrificed for the benefit of private individuals. It was in this state of things that Lord Llanover undertook the task of establishing municipal institutions for the metropolis. The House must be struck with the great ability he manifested. It was open to Parliament at that time either to let the metropolis be governed Imperially and to set up prefects, after the manner of Paris and other continental cities, or to establish bodies more in accordance with our own Constitution and
 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208
 MR. AYRTON  said, in reference to what had fallen from the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu), that the noble Lord
 1217 Laudari a laudatis
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, it was true that by a recent arrangement the inhabitants of the small principality of Monaco had been admitted by France to the same privileges of trade and shipping as the people of that country. When that arrangement was entered into, Her Majesty's Government thought it right to state to the French Government that they could not accept it as a precedent, and if any other Power under "the most favoured Nation" Clause insisted upon having the same rights and privileges as French subjects, Her Majesty's Government would also insist upon them. Considering, however, the smallness of the State of Monaco, and its peculiar geographical position, Her Majesty's Government did not at present consider it necessary to take any step. We had no "most favoured Nation" Clause with respect to navigation; but he might add that no Power which had one had thought fit to commuuicate with the French Government on the subject of this treaty.
 MR. SEELY  said, he would beg to ask, Whether any changes have been made in the salaries of the Clerks of the Customs House; and, if so, whether there is any objection to state the nature of them, and whether the changes would extend to the outdoor Clerks?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that there were about 600 clerks in the London Customs, and several memorials having been addressed to the Treasury, the case of each had been very carefully inquired into by himself, the Chairman of the Board of Customs, and the Chairman of the Board of Inland Revenue. A new scale of salaries was to be substituted for the one now in force, and would be seen in the Estimates for the Revenue Department. He might say in general terms that there were in the warehousing department of the Customs 270 junior clerks and officers. The former were now divided into six classes, with salaries commencing at £75 a year, and rising by £5 a year to £120, and their maximum was £260. It was proposed in future to divide them into three classes, rising by £10 a year after the first two years from a minimum of £80 to a maximum of £300. The principal clerks would rise to £350, instead of £300. The controllers and assistant controllers would begin at £360, instead of £320, and would rise to £500, instead of £450 a year. In the Inspector General's and Examiner's Offices there were about 220 junior clerks and chief clerks. The
 1198
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the Treasury Minute would explain it, but there were details as to increase in wages and superannuation which had not been definitely fixed.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the House was much obliged to the hon. Member for the City for the very lucid and interesting statement he had made in introducing his Motion. It would be unnecessary for him to enter into any lengthened discussion of the various points adverted to by his hon. Friend, because the Government, as had already been intimated, did not intend to oppose the Motion; on the contrary, indeed, they would afford him their hearty support, as they were of opinion that benefit would result from the investigation of a Committee. The proposed inquiry would be divided into two branches—the working of the telegraph system, and the working of the postal system between this country and India. His hon. Friend had, he thought, done right in including the postal system in his proposal, for the two subjects were intimately connected. But the other question was he considered rightly placed first, the telegraph being now so generally used for purposes of business that it was rapidly superseding postal communications. It was expedient that the House should know exactly what faults existed in the great telegraph lines connecting this country with those countries with which our commercial intercourse was on so large a scale. At the same time, his hon. Friend must not
 1232 1233
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been called to the danger to the horse traffic of the Metropolis which arises from the exposed state
 1197
 MR. STANSFELD , in reply, said, he was not prepared to answer his hon. Friend's Question without notice. He had no reason to doubt the authenticity of the telegram; and, if so, as far as his information went, there would be a conclusion of the question to which his hon. Friend referred.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that the Bill had been brought forward at the request of the Irish Members generally, and it was scarcely reasonable when the House went into Committee upon it that such a proposition as that of the hon. Gentleman should be made. It was advisable, in his opinion, that the people of Ireland should themselves pay what the Bill proposed, and that the Government should take the responsibility in the event of an outbreak of the disease. The action of the Government in the matter under consideration was, in his opinion, an unmixed good, and he did not think it becoming in representatives of Irish constituencies to appear at the eleventh hour in opposition to the Bill.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he entirely agreed with every word which had been said in condemnation of the coal tax. It pressed very heavily on every consumer in the metropolis, but particularly on the poorer classes. They were all aware that I the moment a tax was put upon any article of consumption the retail price rose more in proportion, and this was especially true of the coal tax, which he trusted no attempt would be made to perpetuate. With regard to the Committee moved for by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, it was in his opinion calculated to do a great deal of good, and if its attention was directed to the taxation of the metropolis it might be found that those who had the strongest interest in metropolitan improvement were in reality most free from taxation. In point of fact the taxation fell principally upon the occupiers of the metropolis, while the freeholders, who derived immense revenues from their property, scarcely paid
 1214
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was sure that when this subject was before the House yesterday, the noble Lord who had just sat down was not aware of the existence of the Standing Order which he had read. For his own part he considered that Standing Order to be a very desirable one, and he hoped that it would be adopted by the House. Until the noble Lord read the Standing Order he did not know that any definite action had been taken in the matter, although he was aware that much discussion had taken place, and that during the course of last Session Lord Derby had frequently urged on the House of Lords in the strongest terms the necessity of protecting the poor by preventing their dwellings being destroyed by railway companies. Improvements must be made, but the House should take care that as little harm as possible should be done to the working classes. The question of providing proper dwelling houses for poor persons whose residences had been destroyed by railway companies was one of the greatest difficulty, for the inhabitants of many of the metropolitan parishes objected, in the strongest terms, to dwellings for the labouring classes being built within the limits of their parishes. They did this because they feared that if the labouring classes settled in their parish some of them would finally become chargeable to the parish rates. This difficulty would be obviated if a scheme which he and the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had often advocated in that House was adopted—namely, the equalization of poor rates throughout the metropolis. If that system was adopted, the rate would not press too heavily on any parish; if, for instance, at present there was to be a uniform rate in all the metropolitan parishes it would amount only to 1 s. d. d. d. 1216
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he rose to ask the House to consent to the appointment of a Select Committee for the purpose of inquiring into a subject of great and general interest among the commercial classes—namely, the practical working of the present systems of telegraphic and postal communications between this country and the East Indies. He would have been glad if the concurrence of the Government had enabled him to make the Motion as an unopposed one; but he thought it no slight thing to ask the House to lend the weight of its authority to an inquiry of this nature at any period, and especially at the present moment, when so many Members were called on to sacrifice their time in attendance on Election Committees and in the disposal of a very large amount of Private Bill business. Among the many remarkable circumstances which characterized the present day, none was more remarkable than the marvellous development of the commerce of this country during the last few years. This result had been ascribed to various circumstances—to the discovery of gold, to free trade, and other causes; but, in his opinion, nothing could be said to have more led to the promotion of the commerce of this country than the application of the science of the country to extend communication with foreign nations by means of steam navigation and the electric telegraph. Without entering on a disquisition more suitable for a lecture-room than for the floor of the House of Commons, he would content himself with adverting to a few facts connected with commerce, for the purpose of showing the great interest which the trade of this country with the East Indies had in the subject. That trade formed an important part of the whole trade of this country. In 1864, the last year for which we have official accounts in a complete form, the commodities imported into this country amounted in value to £275,000,000, and the commodities exported to £212,500,000. Of the
 1219 1220 d." d. d.," 1221 s., s, d., s. d. s., 1222 1223 1224 1225 d. d. s. d. 1226 Trent 1227
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, it was not his intention to enter into the matters at issue between the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets and the noble Lord. He only wished, as one of the representatives of
 1212
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that when the railway over Mont Cenis was completed there would be a saving of forty-two hours in the communication between this country and the East.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, he was anxious to introduce an Amendment giving effect to the terms of the Report made by the Commission presided over by the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth (Lord Naas). That Report had been moved for on the 13th of February, but it was only that day that Members had been able to obtain copies. It was owing to the indefatigable endeavours of the noble Lord that Ireland was at present free from the cattle plague. Ireland did not ask for entire indemnity, but for contribution towards the expenses that would be necessary should the plague unfortunately reach that country. The suggestion contained in the Report was that the expenses of carrying those orders into execution, save the sums to be paid as compensation for the compulsory slaughter of animals, should be defrayed out of monies voted by Parliament.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, the right hon. Gentleman ought to be aware that the Bill had been read a second time only that very morning at two o'clock; that the Report on which he relied had been placed in his hands only that very day, that he there-
 1237
 MR. S. B. MILLER : Yes, it is.
 MR. S. B. MILLER : Yes, it is. It was presented this morning.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, that owing to the non-production of the Report, no earlier opportunity had been open to him. The Report showed on what abundant grounds the Motion was based. He asked in common justice for a full indemnity in the manner suggested by that Report for such expenses as might be rendered necessary by the creation of a staff of veterinary surgeons, inspectors, and other officers whose appointment had been rendered expedient by the fact that the plague had been allowed to reach in this country the height which it had at present attained.
 1236
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, he scarcely felt himself authorized in taking any step in the matter without communicating with his noble Friend the Member for Cocker-mouth (Lord Naas), whom he had only seen a short time before, and to whose exertions he repeated it was, under Providence, due that Ireland was free from the cattle plague at the present moment.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that the attention of the Board of Trade had recently been called by an individual to the danger referred to in the question of the hon. Member. If road authorities represented to the Board of Trade that danger to persons travelling on any road under their jurisdiction was to be apprehended from horses being frightened by the sight of engines on a railway, the Board of Trade had power, under the Railway Clauses Act, 1845, to order the erection of a screen, if it appeared that the danger could be so obviated; but the Board of Trade could not, under the law, act on the representation of private persons.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, that he seconded
 1228 1229 liver 1230
 MR. W. EWART  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the subjects of the State of Monaco, having been admitted by the French Government to the same privileges of trade and shipping as the people of France, British subjects are not also, under existing Treaties, deemed to be entitled to the same privileges?
 MR. TITE  said, that he seconded the Motion. No one could doubt the Metropolitan Board had effected many important works, but they were now before Parliament for three, all of great value to the public—namely—1st, the approaches to the Thames Embankment; 2nd, the Park Lane improvement; and 3rd, the continuation of the Thames Embankment, and consequently the great road to Chelsea. These were undoubted necessities. But the difficulty the Metropolitan Board had to contend with was that morally, although not legally, the taxation which fell upon the occupiers was so heavy that it could be carried no further. For instance, in Chelsea a £20 house was subject to a rating of £5. It had been suggested that the coal tax should be continued, or, again, that an improvement rate should be imposed; but, be that as it might, some resources must he found beyond the present rates, or further improvements in the metropolis must be suspended. He trusted the appointment of the Committee would not have the effect of delaying the measures which the Board thought necessary to meet the emergency of the case. The justice of a rate was, however, to be measured by its uniformity; and he should like, while upon that subject, to refer to some Returns with regard to metropolitan assessment for 1864 which had been moved for by the hon. Member for Lambeth. From those Returns he found that some most extraordinary inconsistencies prevailed. In Chelsea, for instance, with which he was best acquainted, he found the state of things to be this that under Schedule A the return of the value of property, land and houses, was £290,000 per annum, while the police rate was £240,000, the county rate £234,000, and the poor rate £229,000. Taking the great parish of St. George's, Hanover Square, he found the property was rated under the property tax under Schedule A at £1,365,000; the police rate being
 1209
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW : I beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, considering the probable fate of the Cattle Plague Bill, he means to propose a measure embodying the less objectionable Clauses of both the measures on the subject that have passed this House?
 SIR CHARLES BRIGHT  said, that having been practically engaged in the construction and laying down of the portion of the line under discussion in the first part of the speech of the hon. Member for London, he hoped the House would permit him to add the expression of his regret that a line with which so much pains had been taken, and which had cost so much money, should have occasioned so much disappointment. He took it for granted that the Turkish Government was desirous of carrying out the convention; but so little interest did the Turks feel in the matter, that when he arrived from Scinde he found that the line between Bussorah and Bagdad was delayed for a year, owing to some miserable local squabble between the Governor of Bagdad and some of the tribes, and operations in the Turkish dominions had been retarded a whole year. The working of the Indian line had been described as the most wretched in the world. Except for the bad working on the Turkish portion of the line, messages might be sent with the greatest possible regularity between England and Kurrachee in three or four hours, But on arrival at Kurrachee, the distribution of messages to Bombay and Madras was performed in a wretchedly bad manner. He had met a gentleman waiting as long as seven days at Bombay for a telegram, and he had been obliged to wait himself for two or three days for a telegram between Kurrachee and Bombay, a distance of 500 miles. It would be difficult to exaggerate the importance of this line in a political sense, and while it was working so badly it would be impossible to extend our telegraphic system through Australia and China.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that up to this time the Standing Order which had been adopted by the Lords had had no practical results, save the introduction of two clauses into three Railway Bills compelling the companies to run cheap trains for the benefit of the labouring classes. He hoped that if the House of Commons adopted a Standing Order, intended to prevent the destruction of houses of the poor by railway companies, they would not adopt one similar to that passed by the House of Lords. If they did, they would find that their Standing Order would prove almost entirely useless for the purpose intended. With respect to the erection of dwellings in the neighbourhood of those pulled down the Standing Order had no effect whatever. He hoped that if the House passed a Standing Order on the subject it would be of a more stringent character than that which had been adopted in the Upper House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the feeling of the House seemed to be in favour of the contemplated inquiry. He regretted that personal matters had been introduced in the debate, but he thought that a sufficient case had been made out for inquiry by a Committee. The noble Lord seemed to differ from the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets only in this, that he thought a Commission would be better than a Committee. But it appeared to him that a Committee of the House of Commons was very competent to deal with this question, particularly when they took into consideration that Members from different parts of the metropolis might be very useful in the course of the inquiry, There was only one other observation which he wished to make, and it was with regard to the Bills promoted by the Metropolitan Board of Works. He understood the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) to say that it was desirable to interpose as little delay as possible in the prosecution of those Bills, and that, therefore, the inquiries of the Committee might be directed in the first place to the question of taxation without waiting for the general Report to say by what funds those improvements might be carried out. It was very desirable to interpose no unnecessary delay in the way of those Bills, and with that understanding the Government were ready to assent to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not know what the hon. Baronet means by referring to the probable fate of the Cattle Plague Bill. I have heard no report concerning it, except that a proposition has been made in the House of Lords to refer it to a Select Committee.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask whether there would be any Minute as to the status of the body of writers?
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  said, that there were only 36,000 members of the Church of England in Jamaica. The revenues of the island were taxed to the amount of £28,000 for the benefit of 100 ministers of the Church, so that not a twelfth part of the population absorbed more than one-tenth part of the whole revenue of the island. The Church was not content with this tenth portion of the revenue of the island, but received out of the Consolidated Fund, under an old Act of Parliament, a further sum of £7,000 a year, which was distributed among certain bishops, archdeacons, &c. There were two bishops attached to the Church in Jamaica. One of them had not been seen in his diocese for many years, and spent his time chiefly in Europe. The other
 1269
 MR. NEWDEGATE : Mr. Speaker, I have to thank the hon. Member for Sheffield for having placed this Bill for a second reading on a Wednesday afternoon, the
 1241 Geo. "I (A. B.) do solemnly and sincerely, and in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare,
 1242 1243 1244 1245 1246 1247 1248 "I will ask that the qualification oaths taken by Protestants, and also those taken by Catholics, be produced by the town clerk, and will move the adoption of a petition to both Houses of Parliament praying that Her Majesty's Protestant subjects may, in all cases, be relieved from the necessity of taking oaths which injuriously reflect on the religion of their Catholic fellow-subjects; and that for the qualification oaths." "And that for the qualification oaths now taken by Members of Parliament, members of municipal bodies, and others." "There may be substituted a uniform oath which shall be simply an oath of allegiance to the Queen and her successors, and of obedience to the laws of the realm; and that a deputation be appointed to wait on his Excellency the Lord Lieutenant, and on the Chief Secretary for Ireland, to request them to use their influence as Members of the Government and of the Legislature to effect this object, and to remove all other disabilities that affect any of the subjects of the Crown because of their possessing a particular form of faith." "The Town Clerk then read the requisition calling the special meeting. "The Lord Mayor called on Sir John Gray. "Sir John Gray rose amid loud applause, and was proceeding to speak, when "Alderman Bonsall rose and said—Allow me for a moment, before proceeding. There has been
 1249 Cries of "Sir John Gray—We don't want to have anything to do with meetings held outside this house. If the Alderman will be good enough to wait, he can tell us all about it in any observations he may hereafter make. "Alderman Bonsall —Now is the time and place. "Mr. Devitt—I rise to order. Alderman Bonsall is a gentleman, I am sure, too anxious to support the rules of the house to persist when he knows he is disorderly. "Alderman Bonsall—I am going to speak to the point of order. "Sir John Gray—What is the point of order?" "Alderman Bonsall—The point of order is, that Sir John Gray's motion is one not suitable to this course, but is one calculated to excite political and religious rancour between the members of this corporation. We are here to promote public interests, and not to discuss questions of that character. If gentlemen at the other side feel aggrieved by these oaths, let them meet as a party and petition to have them repealed. But to introduce the subject here will inevitably have the result of giving offence to gentlemen we do not wish to offend, but to live on terms of harmony with. I appeal to Sir John Gray to withdraw his motion." "The Lord Mayor—As this corporation is constituted at present"— "I feel it is in the power of any member to introduce any matter whatever he pleases. If Sir John Gray puts a motion on the paper, if he wants to establish a company, or to get up anything at all that may be connected with places beyond the city, Sligo for instance, I am bound to hear him upon the point. It is for you to rule whether he is to be heard or not. As the corporation is at present constituted, it is in the power of any member to introduce any matter he chooses." "In that view I think Sir John Gray is in order, so far as this corporation is concerned, in bringing this matter before the council. But I must say I regret that he has introduced it, for this reason, that I think the discussion of such subjects is not desirable. You all know my opinion upon religious and political matters, and that, as far as I can, in my line, I keep myself clear of them. On several occasions I stated I would do my best to prevent their introduction into the council, but I am powerless in this case. I will hear whatever is said about it, but I must say I believe the introduction of it will not tend
 1250 "Alderman Bonsall—Then we will leave the room. "Here the Conservative Members rose from their seats, and left the house in a body, amidst hisses from the gallery." Laughter from some hon. Members. "The Lord Mayor—I will direct the gallery to be cleared if there is not silence. "Sir John Gray—This proceeding shows how cautious the Lord Mayor, occupying the chair of this assembly, and selected by the unanimous decision of this house—how cautious he ought to be not to allow the influence of any party to induce him to deviate from the rules of order. "The Lord Mayor—I don't know what yon mean. If you refer to me, I don't think I have left myself open to these observations. I ruled the point of order with you. I gave my own private opinion that I thought it was a pity to introduce it. I said it was in your power to introduce it if you chose. I will not state what my own opinions are on the subject. They may be with you exactly, but in this chair I am bound to act impartially. That duty I will discharge to the best of my power. I am sure Sir John Gray does not wish to attack me." A cry of 1251
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he must express his regret that any Member of that House should rise to defend an obsolete Act of Parliament which never was of the slightest use, and which had long ago fallen into disrepute. Making every allowance for the sincerity of the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate), he thought he was pursuing a course calculated to weaken rather than to strengthen the Church of England. The declaration, Lord Derby had stated in another place, was not worth the paper upon which it was written 5 but it was defended by hon. Gentlemen and noble Lords, not because it was of the slightest use, but because it was a mark, as
 1252
 MR. DUNLOP  said, he regretted that he was not in his place when his hon. Friend concluded his speech, as he had intended to second the Motion for the second reading. He hoped his hon. Friend opposite would acquit him of seeking to join in any conspiracy against the Church of England, but he had a strong traditional hatred, as they all had in Scotland, to the maintenance of oaths useless and offensive, which in their country had been made the means of inflicting grievous injury. In Scotland they had, in order to maintain the Episcopal Church, multiplied oaths, and they had not passed over the non-taking of them. On the contrary, the refusal to take them was made a point of criminal indictment, and many had lost their lives on the scaffold on that account. Nay, more, they made even an explanation of the oaths a ground of prosecution. An ancestor of the present Duke of Argyll, taking the oath as Privy Councillor, stated—
 "I take it so far as it is consistent with itself and the Protestant religion, and I do declare that I mean not to bind myself in my station in a lawful way to wish and endeavour any alteration I think of advantage to the Church or State not repugnant to the Protestant religion and my loyalty, and this I understand as a part of my oath."
 MR. HUNT  said, he would appeal to his hon. Friend not to divide the House. Having been engaged in a Committee upstairs he had not had the advantage of hearing his hon. Friend's arguments, but as the Bill had been before the House several times, and as his hon. Friend had often expressed his views on the matter, he had probably only missed hearing the same arguments over again. If any additional arguments had been employed, he should have an opportunity of reading them before the Bill reached another stage. But what he wanted to point out to his hon. Friend was that this was but a very small portion of a great question which was to be discussed when they came to the second reading of the Government Bill on Parliamentary Oaths. It might be in the recollection of hon. Members that he spoke last Session in favour of the principle of the Oaths
 1254
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I rise merely to say that, having frequently expressed my opinion on the principle of the Bill, it is unnecessary for me to repeat what I have said upon former occasions. There is the less necessity for doing so as the hon. Gentleman opposite has advanced no new arguments against the Bill to-day. He has reminded us that the Bill has been six times already passed by the House of Commons, and I hope this House will follow the example of its predecessors, and affirm the second reading. I think it is generally admitted, if we were dealing with this subject afresh, we should not think for a moment of imposing any such declaration; and I will go further and say that Parliament itself has decided year after year that this declaration ought not to be enforced by unanimously passing the Act of Indemnity, and thus relieving
 1255
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I feel it to be my duty to divide the House.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he did not wish to oppose the grant of £15,000 a year; but, looking to the experience which the country had in former years, he thought the grant should be made inalienable. Creditors should not have the means or the motive for extravagance and debt. Those who recollected past times would remember
 1270
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the remarks of my hon. Friend may be understood as having reference to two perfectly distinct objects, both of which are of great importance in themselves, and both of which may legitimately be held in view by Members of Parliament. The first is the security that there will not be a renewal of the demand made in respect of Prince Alfred, in consequence of the waste and disappearance of this provision. This is one object—that Parliament should know that it will not he called upon to do over again that which it is now called upon to do. Unfortunately, in former times—very different times, which I hope I may say will never return —there were many examples which justified Parliament in exercising a wise jealousy on this subject. With respect to
 1271 1272
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he had to present a petition from Mr. Bompas, a barrister, in favour of the Bill. As the petition was one of a peculiar nature, he would briefly state to the House the facts set forth in it. The petitioner stated that he had been an Undergraduate of St. John's College, Cambridge, and when taking his degree at Cambridge University, in 1858, he was fifth Wrangler. He stated that he belonged to the Baptist persuasion, but during his stay at Cambridge he had always attended the college chapel, and received Communion according to the rites of the Church of England. Having obtained so high a place as fifth Wrangler, he believed that had he been allowed to try for a fellowship he would have obtained one, and men who were below him at the degree examination in the same year subsequently did obtain fellowships. He found that before he could obtain a fellowship it would be necessary for him to make a declaration, under the Act of Uniformity, that he would conform to the Liturgy of the Church of England. Being in doubt as to the meaning of that declaration be submitted a copy thereof to Mr. Lush, now Mr. Justice Lush, and his opinion was that, although some of the words of the declaration were ambiguous, the person signing it undertook, at least, to observe all the directions in the rubric of the Common Prayer Book. The petitioner said that he could not conscientiously make that declaration, and he, therefore, was prevented from trying for a fellowship. The petitioner concluded by stating that he believed many members of the Church of England could not conscientiously sign the declaration, and prayed the House for relief. He (Mr. Bouverie) was informed by his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), who was not in his usual place, but was, he believed, engaged in the General Committee of Elections, that it was not his intention at the present stage of the Bill to move the Amendment of which he
 1258 1259 bonâ fide 1260 1261 1262
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that it had not been his intention at that stage to enter into arguments in favour of the Bill, and he had only done so as he understood that the hon. and learned Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) intended to object to it.
 MR. NEATE  said, it was not his intention to controvert the principle on which the Bill of his right hon. Friend was founded; indeed, he was prepared to go much farther in that direction, and to concur in any general and well-considered measure of this kind. In fact, with respect to all offices, whether in Parliament, Corporations, or Universities, he was in favour of relieving laymen altogether, directly and indirectly, from the necessity of making any profession of their religious faith. But it was because he thought that some difficulties would arise between the Bill of his right hon. Friend and that of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge) that it was necessary to keep in view the bearing and effect of the two measures. It would be better, he thought, if the two hon. Members conferred together to see whether they could not agree upon some united plan of action. The difficulty which now arose out of the conflict between the two measures was one on which he believed hon. Gentlemen on the other side were prepared to act. There were two ways in which the connection between fellowships and the Church was now secured—the one consisted in the obligation of making a declaration of conformity, and the other was the almost universal necessity of subscribing the Thirty-nine Articles when a man took his M.A. degree. The Bill of the right hon. Gentleman negatived the
 1263
 MR. SELWYN  said, he had understood from the right hon. Gentleman that in proposing the second reading of this Bill he would not speak more than two or three minutes, and would refrain from entering into any arguments in support of the measure. He had also understood that this step would be taken in consequence of the absence of his (Mr. Selwyn's) right hon. Colleague in the representation of the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), and the absence of many other Members engaged upon their public duties. He was not going to follow the right hon. Gentleman in this discussion, but would merely remark that he no less differed from the right hon. Gentleman in his estimation of time than he did in his estimation of what was an argument. On behalf of his right hon. Colleague, however, he gave notice that when the Motion was made for committing the Bill he would move, as an Amendment, that it be committed that day six months.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he entirely agreed with his hon. Friend, that the general views of Parliament and the country with respect to these ecclesiastical endowments had very much changed since the passing of the Act, imposing the change upon the Consolidated Fund, to which he had referred. He trusted, however, that his hon. Friend would be satisfied with the answer he had given on a former occasion to the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield), that it would be premature for the Government, in the present state of affairs, to make any declaration with regard to any detailed changes which it was their intention to propose. The Legislature were now engaged in laying the first stone of the new building. When that foundation was laid the Government would endeavour to build upon it the edifice of future prosperity for the colony.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, that as they had arrived at the last stage of this Bill for making a permanent change in the Constitution of Jamaica, it might be respectful in him, who had long been connected with that colony, to explain why he supported it, a little more fully then on previous occasions, when there was the danger of exciting a premature debate on the recent unhappy outbreak. His conviction was, that the decline of Jamaica had been caused by the want of continuous labour, and that this want had been mainly owing to the late form of Government; other reasons had been assigned, but they applied also to those colonies which enjoyed a
 1265 "The difficulty respecting labour" [this was from a North American paper] "lies with the negro, not with the employer. The freedman is bent upon renting a little land of his own, and growing enough upon it for his immediate wants, and waiting to see what God will give him." "The emancipated peasant interprets personal independence as the right to do nothing beyond what is required to buy him a little food and a great deal of spirits; the proprietor finds it impossible or unprofitable to cultivate the soil except in the more densely-populated parts. The tradesman suffers under the depression of commerce, the capitalist has been so discouraged that the banks founded for lending money on real property can hardly dispose of a single share." 1266 "When every rood of ground maintains its man, For him light labour spread her wholesome store, Just gave what life required, and gave no more:" "If ever the black population of the West Indies shall become squatters on the waste lands or mere cultivators of provision grounds instead of labourers for hire, then slavery and the slave trade will have received the last and greatest encouragement which it is in the power of man to bestow." s. s. d. 1267 "This system is approved by every class of persons. I conversed with Government officials, planters, missionaries, storekeepers, and coolies themselves. I did not hear a single complaint. Men of the most opposite opinions agreed in this, that immigration is a success. Contrary to anticipation, it has improved the condition of the negroes. The command of coolie labour has increased the growth of the sugar cane. With this there has necessarily arisen a demand for hedges and ditches, drainage, carpenters, coopers, enginemen, &c. The demand for ground provisions to supply the wants of the coolie labourers has increased. The garden produce finds a better market. All these occupations are taken up by the negro. The coolie is therefore no competitor with the negro in the labour market, and no ill feeling
 1268
 COLONEL WILLIAMS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, When the Report of the loss of the ship  London
 MR. J. B. SMITH  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary for India, When the India Budget is to be brought forward; whether the late Secretary of State for India has communicated with the Government of India, as he promised this House in 1864, as to the practicability of making up the Indian Finance Accounts to a period which would enable him to lay them upon the table of the House at the opening of the Session of Parliament; and whether it be the intention of the Secretary of State
 1285
 MR. J. B. SMITH : The hon. Gentleman has not answered my first question.
 MR. J. B. SMITH : When does the hon. Gentleman expect to receive the answer?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I wish to give notice that on Monday, March 12, I will call the attention of the House to so much of Her Majesty's gracious Speech as relates to the constituencies of counties and boroughs, and move for leave to bring in a Bill founded thereon. I may also state that the Returns which are in preparation for the information of the House, and which will amount to a volume of several hundred pages, are undergoing a final revision; but I cannot promise that they will be in the hands of Members till the end of next week, and possibly not until even the day after my statement. No time, however, shall be lost in placing them on the table.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Does the right hon. Gentleman propose that the Bill shall be read a first time before the statistics are in the hands of Members? If so, it will be in direct contradiction to the statement in the Queen's Speech.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am not aware of any such contradiction. My Motion will be for leave to bring in a Bill. After that Motion is granted it will be quite competent for any hon. Gentleman to raise the question as to the first reading of the Bill. ["No, no!"] I say it is perfectly competent to raise the question on the first reading. ["No!"] Well, then, Sir, I am in your hands.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : When it is brought in, then. I do not know what the noble Lord (Viscount Cranbourne) means when he speaks of a direct contradiction to Her Majesty's Speech. However, I will refer to the terms of Her Majesty's Speech, and then I shall be prepared to-morrow to answer that part of the Question.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : The latter part of the noble Lord's speech appears an anticipation of a proposition which we are to expect on the 12th of March. I think it will be convenient to defer the consideration of that question until we have arrived at the much wished-for day. Coming, however, to the subject immediately before the House. I do not know whether the answer given by the noble Lord to my right hon. Friend's Question will be considered by the House as exceedingly satisfactory. I confess for my own part, when I hear any person accused of a particular charge praised for his excellent character, I am inclined to think that there is nothing else to be appealed to; and, therefore, when the character of the Duke of Somerset is praised by the noble Lord—a course which is universally adopted at the bar, but never when any other course is open to the defence—I think the noble Lord misapprehended the real nature of the charge made against the dockyard authorities. There is no doubt, Sir, that your warrant has access to all the dockyards, and if these workmen had merely been assembled
 1295 1296
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Well, I will keep my promise, and I give the noble Lord credit for the utmost presence of mind. Is there any other virtue you would wish me to ascribe to him? I do not wish to pursue this discussion further. I hope, however, that the Election Committee upon the case will take into their serious consideration the statements that have been made this evening, and will consider what weight they are to attach to the evidence sent up to them by the electioneering agents.
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL : I wish to say merely a word or two upon this question. It may be difficult to determine—my learned Friend himself has not a decided opinion upon it—whether personal service of the Speaker's warrant is necessary or not, and I will for the present assume that such service is not absolutely required. We all, however, know that it
 1300
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN : The charge against the Admiralty is, that permission was given to serve the Speaker's warrant in the dockyard, and that the opportunity was taken to examine the witnesses. I cannot conceive that any reproach can be directed against the Admiralty in this matter, although there may be some blame attaching to the agent for having exceeded the powers given him. That blame, however, rests with him, and does not extend to any Members of the Government. With regard to the serving of the warrants in the dockyard, I presume that hon. Gentlemen whose seats in the House are menaced do not sit idly by and allow them to be lost without taking the opportunity of defending them, but I suppose they have the same privileges afforded to them as are afforded on the other side. I should like to know what would be the opinion of hon. Gentlemen opposite if they, having asked for permission to serve the Speaker's warrant on men
 1306
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In common with the greater portion of the House, I have felt considerable difficulty in ascertaining the real nature of the facts in this matter. The Government have heard now for the first time the statement of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington), and I have no doubt that the right hon. Gentleman made it most conscientiously; but it would have been a great advantage to us, and would have saved the time of the House, if we had been in a position to admit or deny with precision, or to qualify in any way, that which has fallen from the right hon. Baronet. [Sir JOHN PAKINGTON: The noble Lord has admitted it.] I assure him that my noble Friend, not being in a position to deny the statement he has made, has cautiously and properly abstained from denying it; but my noble Friend by no means affirms or admits it, otherwise than by not being in a condition to question it, without having other information to give the House. I have no option but to follow the same course, and to assume the right hon. Gentleman to have been accurately informed—which may or may not be the case, but if not, it is not his fault. There is, then, but little room for difference of opinion. If we take the sole and single act which the Admiralty has done in this case, I think the severest judge would admit that no considerable blame could be ascribed to that Board for desiring that every facility should be afforded for serving the Speaker's warrant. That is a document of authority, and it is directed to a large number of persons in a public establishment. The parties armed with the warrant appeal to the Admiralty for facilities to serve it; and I think it was the duty of a public department,  primâ facie 1307
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I should not desire to prolong this discussion at all were it not for the manner in which the right hon. Gentleman who has just addressed the House referred to the notice which he supposes the Government to have had of the particular statements, or their effect, made this evening by the
 1311 "Certain statements as to the manner in which dockyard workmen who are voters for the borough of Devonport have been examined in the dockyard with reference to their intended evidence before the Election Committee for that borough, and to ask for explanation." 1312 "I send you copies of the orders under which I have acted, also of the applications made to and approved by me in obedience to the orders which contained the same words, 'On workmen in the yard.' I therefore ordered that the people sought and applied for should assemble at the hour requested, in a quiet part of the yard, instead of their being sought separately at their work, when they saw the parties applying by Speaker's warrant; thus giving them 'every facility,' and were perfectly uninterfered with by their own officers. You have everything I can think of." 1313
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  wished to explain that if he had led the House to suppose that Lord Clarence Paget knew of the telegram before it was sent he was in error. Of course, he now knew that it had been sent.
 COLONEL KNOX : The hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) asked the noble Lord to read one letter only; but had he asked for the other letter, it would have been found that facilities were to be given to the agent for the petitioner alone. If this had been done when the Gentlemen on this side of the House were in power, a Committee of the House would have been appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the matter; and I think that that course ought to have been pursued on the present occasion, because I do not believe that the public generally will be satisfied with a private inquiry instituted by the Admiral, who is himself implicated in these transactions.
 MR. BARING  said, he could assure his hon. Friend that the Government were fully sensible of the importance and interest attaching to the experimental treatment of animals affected with the cattle disease, and their attention was drawn to the subject at the very commencement of the outbreak in this country. As the House was aware, a Royal Commission was appointed for the express purpose, among others, of inquiring into the mode of treatment likely to prove successful in the case of animals affected with the plague, and the Government thought it would be far better to intrust such an inquiry to one authority, instead of committing it to the care of two separate bodies. That Commission had not neglected their duty. On the contrary, they had prepared a scheme of the most exhaustive character, for the purpose of giving to the world the most complete and accurate information with regard to the nature of the disease, the different modes of treatment, contagion, and other matters most interesting to the public and most likely to be attended with advantage on future occasions. The nature of the scheme was most fully described in the second Report of the Royal Commission, which his hon. Friend had probably not yet seen. He would find that not only many eminent veterinary surgeons, but also men of distinction in the medical profession had been engaged in conducting the inquiries, and he would find certain general statements made regarding the result of their labours. The Commissioners stated that no remedy which had hitherto been discovered could be relied upon, that vaccination had not proved a safeguard, and that they purposed giving the public more details with reference to inoculation. The Commissioners, in their third and final Report, promise to give full and complete accounts of the experiments which had been made,
 1317
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask Mr. Speaker whether on going into Committee on the first naval Vote Members would be allowed to discuss the Estimates at large?
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he had served on the Admiralty Committee, and had put many questions to the different witnesses in reference to the position of the Masters. On no question, however, did he receive such a diversity of answers. As to the question of pay, he did not wish to offer any opinion, because, from the evidence which was given, he was totally unable to come to any conclusion on the subject.
 MR. PERRAND : I am very glad of it. But I wish the noble Lord had stated it the other night, and saved me all this time. [Lord CLARENCE PAGET: I had already spoken.] He was glad of the announcement; but he hoped Mr. Reed had been made to apologise for his speech. With regard to Mr. Lang and Mr. Watts, the country had never been able to understand why those eminent shipbuilders were driven out of the service. One of the most curious things connected with this very mysterious affair was that Mr. Lang, one of the most eminent shipbuilders in the world, was dispensed with, while Mr. Reed, who had never built a gunboat, was brought in. It was a kind of family movement; for a number of Mr. Reed's relatives wore brought into the dockyards with him. With regard to Mr. Reed, all he could say was that he had notoriously and—without offence—he might say disgracefully failed to redeem his promise to the Admiralty and to the country in regard to his ships. Mr.
 1331 1332 "My Lords have ascertained from private establishments what the rate of wages is, and what is the nature of their engagements, and have thus been enabled to compare their position with that of the artificers and labourers in the dockyards." "After a full examination of the subject, my Lords have come to the conclusion that they would not be justified in recommending to Parliament a general increase of wages as prayed by the memorialists."
 MR. CORRY  said, he had observed that, as a general rule, the preliminary debate on the Estimates was the only occasion on which any question was fully discussed; and, therefore, he could not adopt the recommendation of his noble Friend by deferring the remarks he wished to make on the policy of the Admiralty in respect of the construction of ships of war to a future day, when the shipbuilding Votes would be considered. But before adverting to that important subject, he wished to make a few remarks in reference to the Vote No. 1, which provided for the wages of Seamen and Marines. There was no part of his noble Friend's statement on Monday night which he had heard with greater satisfaction than that in which he informed the Committee that the Admiralty had abandoned the intention which they entertained last year of reducing the strength of the Coastguard on shore; He considered that intention so objectionable that he had ventured to call the special attention of the House to the subject shortly before the close of the last Session of Parliament; and he, therefore had derived great satisfaction from the announcement of his noble Friend that a small increase was to be made in the numbers of the force, and that it would be permanently maintained at those increased numbers. But whatever satisfaction he derived from that statement was more than counterbalanced by the reduction shown in the Estimates of 600 Marines, in addition to the 1,000 reduced last year. He must say that he thought this policy most objectionable. His noble Friend had given no explanation as to the cause of this reduction, and he was not surprised at his reticence, because there was no witness examined before the Royal Commission on Manning the Navy in 1859 who had given more emphatic testimony in favour of increasing the number of the Royal Marines. His noble Friend stated in his evidence that in his opinion—for which he gave excellent reasons—the Marines ought to be maintained at 21,000 men; and they were now reduced to 16,400. The late Sir James Graham, whom no one could accuse of having entertained extravagant views on naval questions, gave similar evidance. The Marines, he said, ought to be increased to 20,000
 1348 personnel matériel personnel matériel matériel personnel 1349 Royal Sovereign 1350 deus ex machinâ Monitor Merrimac Monitor
 MR. CORRY  had just stated that he was aware she was not, but he thought that was no excuse for the remissness of the Admiralty. Well, as he had said, nothing was done in 1862, but in February, 1863, Captain Coles urged upon the
 1351 Pallas
 MR. CORRY : On former occasions Captain Coles had proposed two turrets, but being limited to the size of the  Pallas
 MR. CORRY  was merely giving the reason assigned by Captain Coles for not having proposed two turrets in the design of 1865. At length they had been told that a sea-going turret-ship was to be built—the  Monarch
 MR. CORRY  did not mean to use the
 1352 Pallas Pallas
 MR. CORRY  inquired why those trials had not been concluded? Because, forsooth, she was being continually altered in the hope of getting a little more speed out of her. The same promise had been held out in the case of the  Bellerophon Warrior Pallas Agincourt
 MR. CORRY  said, a man need not be a conjuror to turn out a short ship and a
 1353 Warrior Agincourt Warrior Agincourt Pallas Warrior Warrior Pallas "He wished to speak of the reckless alterations of new ships; almost every ship was altered; there was scarcely one that had not undergone some frightful operation some time or other. Take the case of a three-decker, the  Howe Immortalité Hansard Pallas 1354 Pallas Bellerophon's Lord Warden Pallas Bellerophon Research Pallas Danae Amazon Amazon Pallas 1355
 MR. CORRY  said, that he held in his hand a letter from his hon. Friend the Member for Birkenhead (Mr. Laird), who was unfortunately prevented from attending the House through indisposition, in which he also expressed the opinion that a seagoing turret-ship could be built of 3,500 tons, to carry four 600-pounders with great speed, and with ample accommodation for her crew; and his hon. Friend maintained, moreover, that a ship carrying such an armament would be more powerful than any vessel afloat. Mr. Oliver Lang, who had been referred to by the right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich as one of the most distinguished naval architects in Europe, and Mr. Watts, the late chief Constructor of the Navy, a gentleman of great experience and ability, both entertained the same opinion. [Lord CLARENCE PAGET: What thickness of armour?] The hon. Member for Tavistock had mentioned six inches. Moreover, Captain Coels objected to a ship of such large tonnage as 5,100, and maintained that such a vessel would not test his principle in the least degree, and that, if failure should ensue, he could not be held responsible for it. He would suggest to the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer to consider whether, having heard the opinion of all these eminent and experienced men, it would not be worth while, as a mere matter of finance and economy, to try the experiment of building the smaller vessel, and he believed the Budget would show an ample margin for the purpose. Let the Admiralty by all means build a ship of 5,100 tons at the same time if they pleased, but it would tend to a great saving of future expenditure if it could be shown that efficient sea-going turret-ships could be constructed on a much smaller scale than was contemplated by the Admiralty. If the Government did not consent to the trial of the experiment, he should certainly, if his hon. Friend the Member for Tavistock
 1356
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he fully agreed with the hon. Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) in the remarks which he had made with reference to the large squadron maintained on the coasts of China and Japan. He found from a list which he held in his hand that the fleet on the Chinese and Japanese coasts consisted of forty-seven vessels, forty-four of which were armed steamers. He believed that no hon. Gentleman present understood what the meaning was of keeping up such an immense and costly naval establishment in that part of the world. The Chinese Government was not hostile—at least not openly hostile—to England; moreover, it had not any fleet for hostile demonstrations; and as to Japan, on a recent occasion three English ships of war, assisted by two or three foreign vessels, succeeded in enforcing the execution of a treaty signed by the Emperor of that country, the discovery having at last been
 1363 1364 1365
 MR. CORRY  asked why the Admiralty had reduced the number of Marines on shore by 600 men?
 MR. CORRY  wished to know the result of reducing the standard of height.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he agreed with almost everything that had been stated by his hon. Friend opposite (Sir Stafford Northcote). The Bill, no doubt, was a very useful one, and it was incumbent on the House to see it thoroughly carried out. When the House voted money it parted with it for certain
 1373
 MAJOR WALKER  wished to say a few words on one item of this Vote—the sum of £29,575 for the Royal Naval Coast Volunteers. When this force was first established it was intended to fill up a gap in the naval service, which was then at a low ebb. It was intended for the twofold purpose of providing sea-going ships for the protection of the coast, and for manning the sea-coast defences. Both these objects were now better met—the first by the Royal Naval Reserve, and the next by the Militia and Volunteer artillery.
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  said, it was a general opinion throughout the navy that what they now wanted, for the safety of our commerce, were fast sea-going cruisers and fast despatch-boats. The sea-going cruisers should be able to go at the rate of thirteen or fourteen knots an hour, and be capable of carrying a large supply of coals. If, in the case of the  Amazon 1333 Research Terror 1334 Bombay
 MR. HANBURY TRACY  wished for some information regarding the Marine barracks at Deal.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he wished to put a Question of which he had given his noble Friend private notice. It referred to a matter affecting the character and discipline of the navy, or at least of the crew of one of Her Majesty's Ships. In  The Morning Star "It is greatly to be apprehended, Sir,"(the letter was addressed to the Editor of  The Star Wolverine Wolverine The Star Wolverine 1366
 MR. COWPER,  in reply, said, before sanitary facts were attended to the owners of houses used to drain them into the nearest river or ornamental water. This practice prevailed to some extent in Regent's Park, and in 1862 he discovered that the sewage of one of the villas was flowing into the ornamental water. He then succeeded in diverting the sewage, and last year, during the hot weather, the medical officer of Marylebone reported to him that there was a smell from the ornamental water which was very disagreeable and injurious to health. He then had to consider what was to be done in that state
 1284
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to address one or two remarks to the Committee, before the discussion closed, on a totally different subject, which he would be precluded from referring to upon any specific Vote. His noble Friend told them in his opening speech that they would be surprised if they knew the continually increasing demand upon the Admiralty for greater assistance made by various officers in different parts of the world, and he referred especially to China and Japan. He (Mr. Liddell) heard that statement with great apprehension, and took this opportunity of expressing an earnest hope that those calls for assistance would not be attended to. He had referred to the last published shipping lists from those parts of the world, and the Committee would perhaps be startled when he told them that our fleet on those coasts on the 15th of January, numbered forty-six vessels of war. The Committee would see that this was a question that they really had now under consideration—the question of the national expenditure—and the simple point he wished to put to the Government was—Was that gigantic fleet necessary in those seas? We had treaties of peace and of commerce with the countries on whose shores the fleet was stationed. A considerable lapse of years had taken place since those treaties were signed, and he presumed the treaties included the usual stipulation that security would be afforded to the subjects of nations trading with those countries under those treaties—security to life and to property.
 1361 Leander
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The  Agincourt
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he wished to correct a statement which he had made, and which perhaps might be misunderstood, as to the position of the Masters. He had stated that Masters could not rank with lieutenants, with regard to the date of seniority. That statement, however, had reference to military rank. A lieutenant, therefore, was not allowed to be put under a Master on the quarter-deck, even though the Master should be of a higher seniority than the lieutenant. The Masters ranked according to the seniority of their commission, but they held no military rank on deck. The hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) had asked whether his secretary could be permitted to go to the Admiralty in order to correct certain misapprehensions respecting the accounts of the Accountant General of the Navy. The hon. Gentleman had been of great service to the Admiralty, and he should be extremely glad to go into the matter with him. His hon. Friend the Member for Northumberland (Mr. Liddell) seemed to be of opinion that the increased forces at distant stations were not available when they were wanted, and had asked how it was that when the Spanish squadron went from Callao to blockade Valparaiso our ships were not there. Now, the fact was that that was no longer our head-quarters, and undoubtedly we had not ships always at that spot; but that circumstance was only an illustration of what he had mentioned the other evening—namely, that we were constantly pressed for additional ships. With regard to China, the hon. Gentleman seemed to think that we ought not to keep so large a force on that coast, but that the Chinese themselves ought to put down the pirates. Now, unless his memory failed him, he remembered having heard the hon. Gentleman loudly exclaim against the Government for assisting the Chinese in establishing a navy for themselves. [Mr. LIDDELL: An English navy.] One of the great arguments had been that if they had no efficient navy, we should be obliged to keep these large forces on the Chinese coast. With regard to the continued employment of Brown, Lennox, and Co. by the Admiralty—[Mr. SEELY: On
 1367
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the force of the Royal Naval Coast Volunteers was diminishing of itself without the interference of the Admiralty. They were men engaged in the coasting trade and boating, and their wires did not like the recent extensions of the area over which they might be called upon to serve. They were many of them fine men, and he, for one, remarked the diminution in their number with regret.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he had not heard of any difficulty of getting Marines since the standard had been reduced. Some of the recruits had been three or four years without going to sea, and the alteration of the number of men on the reserve would give these young men an opportunity of seeing service.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the number of Marines was the same as last year, but the proportion of Marines at sea to those on shore was a matter of a somewhat technical nature, affecting the
 1368
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : They are not armour-clad.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The  Monitor
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Perhaps the hon. Gentleman may not be aware that Captain Coles is reinstated. As soon as Captain Coles gave a proper apology, the Admiralty were very happy to reinstate him.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The reason why I interpose at this moment is for the purpose of answering the many Questions that have been put to me. [Mr. CORKY: We shall put many more presently.] I took the liberty the other night of very humbly yet earnestly advising that we should confine our observations to the general condition of the navy, and defer discussion concerning the construction of our vessels till we came to the Vote on this subject, which really interests many Members of this House. But I am bound to say that we have rather transgressed the usages of the Committee in going into the Vote at once. My right hon. Friend the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) was the first Gentleman who took so unusual a course. I will
 1339 pari passu 1340 1341 "The first proposal we have to make is that, if possible, we should endeavour to construct a ship upon the turret principle which shall be a real sea-going vessel. We have never yet succeeded in getting one of these vessels which can be deemed a thorough sea-going ship. "I do not deny that Captain Coles will have considerable difficulties to overcome in constructing a thorough sea-going ship on the turret principle. Everybody knows that a sea-going ship for cruising must have masts and rigging—we know that the turrets must be placed in the centre line of the ship—and therefore, in order to get a clear range for the guns from the centre of the ship you must have as few obstructions as possible at her extremities, because those obstructions interfere with the firing of the guns. That is one of the difficulties which Captain Coles has to contend with, but which I feel confident myself that he will be able to surmount. He has been directed by the Admiralty to prepare drawings, he has had the assistance of draughtsmen from the Admiralty, and he has been furnished with the lines of such of our ships as he might desire to have, with every other assistance that we can afford him, in order that he may be enabled to design a thorough sea-going turret-ship."—[3  Hansard 1342 Pallas 1343 Prince Albert Prince Albert; Prince Albert Prince Albert Tamar Prince Albert 1344 versus Warrior Black Prince 1345 London London Scorpion Wyvern Bellerophon Monarch Hercules Monarch 1346 Warrior Black Prince Bellerophon Pallas Bellerophon Bellerophon Pallas Amazon Amazon? Alabama.' Alabama Alabama 1347
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The trials of the ship were not concluded.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Mr. Reed is not an enemy of the turret system.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Captain Coles has not been restricted to a certain tonnage.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : There are other reasons for the rejection of the design.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, it was a recruiting barrack for the Marines. They were first taken down to that healthy place, and then they went to the Chatham division. Deal was, in fact, the nursery of recruits for the Chatham division, and the authorities were anxious to have a similar recruiting place in the West of England for the Portsmouth and Plymouth divisions.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : I believe the same course would have been pursued.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the Chairman of Committee had for many years permitted Members to make a general statement on the Estimates when the first Vote came on for discussion.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : That is exactly what I wish to convey.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : In reply to my right hon. Friend the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman), who asks whether the Admiralty gave any authority in the present instance beyond that which relates to the serving of the Speaker's warrant, I have to state that the only authority given by them had reference to the service of that warrant, and that they knew nothing whatsoever of any further transaction until my right hon. Friend opposite (Sir John Pakington) laid the circumstances of the case before them this evening.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I am bound to say that the right hon. Gentleman opposite, in bringing this matter before the notice of the House, has not accompanied his speech with any very strong remarks; but, on the contrary, he has made a temperate statement, and calls upon me to reply as to how far it is correct. I will, therefore, in a very few words explain all that I know of this transaction. The right hon. Gentleman first asks me whether I was cognizant of the telegram that was sent from the Admiralty to the Admiral Superintendent at Devonport. Well, what I am about to read to the House will show that it so happens that I was not cognizant of this transaction until it was brought to my notice by him. On Monday evening my right hon. Friend came to me in the lobby and said, "I find it necessary to give a notice for Thursday next, which I request you to read." This is the paper which he placed in ray hands—
 "To call the attention of the Government to certain statements as to the manner in which dockyard labourers, who are voters for the borough of Devonport, have been examined in the dockyard with reference to their intended evidence before the Election Committee for that borough, and to ask for explanation." 1292 "H. M.'s Dockyard, Devonport, Feb. 27,1866. "My dear Lord Clarence Paget,—I send you copies of the orders under which I have acted, also of the applications made to and approved by me in obedience to the two orders, which contained the same words, 'on workmen in the yard.' I therefore ordered that the people sought and applied for should assemble at the hour requested in a quiet part of the yard, instead of their being sought separately at their work— Laughter "Where they saw the parties applying by Speaker's warrant, and were perfectly uninterfered with by their own officers. You have everything I can think of.—Yours faithfully, "T. M. SYMONDS." "Is not this much in favour of disfranchising dockyards?" "We have the honour to inform you that a petition has just been presented against the return of the sitting Members for the borough of Devon-port. A large number of the witnesses who will be required to attend on the Speaker's warrants are employed in the dockyard, and the hours of their attendance are very long. It would not be necessary that they should be disturbed at their work for more than a few minutes in the case of any witness, but it would be a matter of very considerable inconvenience and annoyance to the men, as well as of the utmost possible difficulty to ourselves as agents having the conduct of the petition, if it were necessary to find them at their own residences after the hours of work. Under these circumstances, we have to request that we may be favoured (should there riot be any objection to such a course being taken by the Department) with a letter addressed to the Port Admiral requesting that officer to afford our chief clerk facilities for serving the Speaker's warrants in the dockyard, and seeing the men during hours of work for that purpose. We believe we are not wrong in saying that in an analogous case pending before the courts of common law where it would be necessary to serve a subpoena this facility would be given. We may mention that the Speaker's warrants went down by special messenger this morning, and we shall, perhaps, under these circumstances, be permitted to beg that our request may receive immediate attention.—We
 1293 "TRAVERS, SMITH, and DE GEX." "Every facility is to be given for serving the Speaker's warrants on workmen in the yard, in the case of the petition against the sitting Members at Devonport." "In confirmation of my telegram of this day, their Lordships desire that every facility may be afforded for serving Speaker's warrants on workmen in Devonport yard, in the case of the petition against the sitting Members for Devonport. By command of their Lordships, "W. G. ROMAINE." "Sir,—We have Speaker's warrants to serve on the following persons in the matter of the Devonport election petition." 1294
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The whole letter? ["No, no!" and "We have the honour to inform you that a petition has just been presented against the return of the sitting Members for the Borough of Devon-port. A large number of the witnesses who will be required to attend on the Speaker's warrants are employed in the dockyard, and the hours of their attendance are very long. It would not be necessary that they should be disturbed at their work for more than a few minutes in the case of any witness, but it would be a matter of very considerable inconvenience and annoyance to the men, as well as of the utmost possible difficulty to ourselves as agents having the conduct of the petition, if it were necessary to find them at their own residences after the hours of work."
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The hon. and learned Gentleman asks for information as to a particular passage in the letter of Messrs. Travers, Smith, and De Gex, which I have already read to the House.
 LORD HOTHAM : Although this question has in all probability been discussed sufficiently to enable every hon. Member to make up his mind upon it, yet I would ask? permission of the House to say a few words before the discussion closes. Shortly after the meeting of Parliament, during the time when Lord Derby held the post of First; Minister to the Crown, serious imputations were made by Sir Benjamin Hall (then Member for Marylebone) upon the conduct of the Board of Admiralty then presided over by the Duke of Northumberland—in reference to the elections which had just taken place, and pointing to the interference of Government officers in the dockyards, and also to improper appointments which had taken place in the dockyards, upon—as was stated at; the time—political grounds. A Committee was appointed upon the subject, and it was my misfortune to be a Member of that Committee. I say it was my misfortune, because the inquiry was a long and intricate one, and because it became the duty of the Committee to report unfavourably on the proceedings of the then Board. Inasmuch as Lord Seymour, now Duke of Somerset, was the Chairman of that Committee, my attention has been especially awakened at hearing imputations cast upon the Board of which he is now the head. With reference to the important part of this discussion—which, no doubt, is that relating to the examination of witnesses in the dockyard, and with reference to the
 1304
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : I think the hon. and learned Gentleman who last addressed us would have done better had he left the case of the Government in the hands of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for certainly his arguments have done nothing to mitigate the opinion the House must have formed of this transaction. The hon. and learned Member said that the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) did not give the Government a sufficiently detailed notice as to the subjects on which he required explanation. But every Gentleman who reads the Notice which was put into the hands of the noble Lord will see that it contains every information it is possible to give. The hon. and learned Gentleman further says neither did the letter from the Admiral convey any information to the noble Lord that any man had been examined in the dockyard, and that therefore the Government could not be aware that any such examination had taken place. But I say that it is stated in the Notice of Motion given by the right hon. Baronet that such an examination did take place, and that, therefore, it was the bounden duty of Government to have again communicated with the Admiral Superintendent, and to have asked him for an explanation of this grave charge. But what did the Government do when they became aware of the nature of the right hon. Baronet's Question? Being in possession on Monday night of the Notice of the Question to be put by the right hon. Baronet this evening, the Government do not appear, up to the present moment, to have communicated with any of the authorities of the dockyard upon the subject of this most serious charge; and now, when the debate is about to close, the Attorney General gets up and says it was impossible for Government to have been aware of the Question to be put to them from the Notice given them in private by the right hon. Baronet. I believe this to be mere special pleading, and I believe the House and the country will form a similar opinion on the subject. We are now told that the matter will be inquired into further. I hope that the further inquiry will be prosecuted in an impartial and free
 1314
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : There are one or two points to which I desire to call the attention of the House arising out of the speech of the noble Lord opposite (Lord Clarence Paget). The agents have the opportunity of gathering all the evidence in the first instance, before they apply for the Speaker's warrants; because I suppose each warrant is addressed to a particular person by name. They must
 1305
 MR. DISRAELI : I do not think that the right hon. Gentleman has any just cause of complaint against my right hon. Friend (Sir John Pakington) for the manner in which he has brought this question before the House. Certainly not on the ground of want of sufficient opportunity on the part of the Admiralty for obtaining the information which was required. What is the case? My right hon. Friend, four days ago, gave private notice to the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty of his intention to make the statement he has brought before us. Surely that was sufficient notice in these days of railroads and electric telegraphy—and we have seen that the Admiralty know how to work a telegraph. And then there was also the public Notice given in the usual form in the printed paper. I, therefore, do not clearly understand what is the purport of the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. For I put this question—if transactions of the character now before us occur, how are they ever to be made known to the House or the country unless the course pursued by my right
 1308 1309 1310
 MR. SEELY  said, he rose to repeat his former complaints of the manner in which the Admiralty accounts were presented to
 1362
 MR. SELWYN : I can scarcely think that the Attorney General any more than his Colleague the Solicitor General can have been present throughout this debate, or else he would scarcely have complained of the terms of the Notice given by the right hon. Baronet. The hon. and learned Gentleman says that the noble Duke at the head of the Admiralty had no means of knowing what had taken place. Had the hon. and learned Gentleman been in the House he must have heard the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty state that he had caused inquiries to be made into the subject of the examination of the men, and that he was informed that each examination had lasted more than an hour. The fact is, that the simple service of the warrant signed by the Speaker would not have occupied more than half a minute; and, therefore, when the petitioner's agent wrote to the Admiralty for facilities in serving the warrant, stating that only a very few minutes would be required in the case of each witness, the Admiralty should have foreseen that something else was intended besides the mere service of the warrant. But, notwithstanding the suspicious circumstances under which the application was made, they sent a telegram and a letter to the Admiral Superintendent, directing him to give the facilities asked for. They learn afterwards that the men were each occupied for an hour—and that in the case of fifty workmen—and I want to know how they supposed that hour was occupied. I say the conclusion the Admiralty should have come to upon the receipt of the letter from the petitioner's agent was that something more was intended than appeared upon the face of it. And I go further and ask why, when they heard that something else had been done, they did not institute inquiries in order to find out the real truth of the matter?
 MR. HORSMAN : Then I understand 'the noble Lord to tell us that, until he heard the speech of my right hon. Friend opposite, he was not aware that evidence had been taken in the dockyards, and that the Admiralty, therefore, had no opportunity of expressing an opinion on the subject.
 MR. HORSMAN : There are two questions arising out of this discussion as to which I cannot, from the explanation which we have received, arrive at a distinct understanding, and with respect to which I hope to hear something further from my noble Friend the Secretary to the Admiralty. There is, in the first place, the question of the facilities given by the Admiralty for serv-
 1302
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Dean and Chapter of Westminster are about to surrender their Capitular Estates to the Ecclesiastical Commission; and, if so, whether they are to receive in exchange an annual "commutation" payment, and of what amount, or a re-transfer of a portion of the Capitular Estates, and of what annual value; and whether any and what arrangement has been come to upon such surrender for securing adequate stipends to the Non-capitular Members of the Collegiate Church? He also wished to ask if the scheme was prepared, and whether the right hon. Gentleman will lay it on the table?
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Why the experiments made as to the cure of the Cattle Plague have not been laid upon the table of the House? The country had been told that the "stamping out" process was the only mode of eradicating the cattle disease, This, he thought, showed a very retrogressive tendency on the part of medical science, and especially in its veterinary branch. For the sake of the agricultural interest generally he sincerely hoped that the disease was not so incurable as it was represented to be, because, as they could not prevent importation of foreign cattle, they would always
 1316
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, the total expenditure at Alderney to the 31st of December last is stated in the Estimates, now in the hands of hon. Members, to have been £1,175,346. To complete the work to the point known as D, without constructing the eastern arm, will cost less than £100,000 more, of which amount £50,000 will fall on the present financial year, and the remainder on the financial year 1866–7, but there is also a claim on the part of the contractors on account of damage done in the gales of last year which may slightly increase this amount. But all the work which Government now contemplates doing is expected to be completed within the £1,300,000, and the final payment will he in 1867–8. The House will remember that an Act was passed last year transferring Alderney from the Admiralty to the Board of Trade, and no further work would be undertaken there except on the recommendation of the Board of Trade to the Treasury. The formal transfer has just been completed, but I have no reason to expect that my right hon. Friend (Mr.
 1283
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he did not think the hon. and learned Member could have read the Bill, which provided that accountants should transmit their accounts, together with the authorities and vouchers relating thereto, to the office of the Commissioners, in such form, and for such periods, and under such regulations as the Commissioners might prescribe. The Bill would extend the audit to all branches of the public service, and effectually prevent the intentions of Parliament being contravened.
 MR. STANSFELD,  in reply, said, his noble Friend the late Secretary of State had communicated with the financial member of the Council, to whom the subject had been referred. The answer he received was under the consideration of the present Secretary of State, but it did not appear to be sufficiently definite. The Indian Government had been officially communicated with, and when their answer was received he would communicate it to the House.
 MR. STANSFELD : The communication has only been ordered to-day.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, that the finance accounts would be laid upon the table, according to the provision of the law, before the 14th of May; and, as far as the Indian Department was concerned, he should be prepared to introduce the Budget on the earliest day afterwards consistently with the necessities of public business and the convenience of the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : When a Bill is brought in it is at once read a first time.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that the question should be addressed to the Chairman of Committee.
 MR. SPEAKER : The Speaker's warrant is simply a warrant commanding attendance before an Election Committee; and the only reason for applying to the Speaker for his warrant is, that until the Committees are appointed there is no Chairman with authority to issue his warrant to summon witnesses before them. Application for the purpose is, therefore, made to the Speaker until the Committees are appointed, and he issues his warrant requiring the attendance before them of witnesses. If it be agreeable to the House, I will read the form of the warrant. It is as follows:—
 "Whereas a petition of, complaining of an undue election and return for the of has been presented to the House of Commons, the matter of which petition is to be tried by a Select Committee to be appointed under the 'Elections Petitions Act, 1848;' these are, therefore, to re quire you, to be and appear before the said Select Committee at such time or times as shall be notified to you by the parties, or either of them, the said petition, or their or either of their agents or agent; and to receive and obey such further order as the said Select Committee to be appointed to try the matter of the said petition shall make concerning the same. As you will
 1303
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, he could fully bear out the observations of the hon, Member for Devon (Sir Lawrence Palk) with respect to the value of the services of the Masters in the navy. He had with him a list of nineteen whom he had known, of whom only one ever failed in his duty in any instance, and even he afterwards recovered his character. But it was far from being the case that their services were left unrewarded; the rewards given them were often very ample in degree. Taking the cases of fifteen with whom he was acquainted he found that five had been appointed Masters Attendant of dockyards, receiving pay to the amount of £500 or £600 a year; two were in command of ships, with the pay of commanders; one held a high situation in the compass department at the Admiralty; and one was at the head of a branch establishment in Portsmouth Dockyard; leaving only six with no pay beyond that of their naval rank. It was impossible in the nature of things to give men employed for special duties and general service the same rate of pay. The most difficult duty of Masters was that of pilotage which was not to be learnt in a day, and, in fact, required almost a lifetime. The old Admiralty regulations ordered that, with the view of encouraging Masters to attain excellence as pilots, they should be paid for every port into which they took a ship half the amount that would be paid to a regular pilot. He believed that the hydrographers of the navy, many of whom were among the foremost in setting forth the hardships and advocating the claims of the Masters, were the very persons who virtually deprived them of that advantage; because, at the end of the ship's term of service, when the certificates of pilotage were sent in by the captains, they were thrown together, and very often only a small sum was awarded to the Master instead of the full pilotage to which he was justly entitled. If that question of half pilotage were only looked into by the Secretary to the Admiralty, he would probably find that it would form a considerable addition to the income of the Masters. With respect to the improvement in the pay of the Staff Commanders, to use the rather fantastic denomination given them in the  Navy List 1322 d s. d s.
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE : At what speed?
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether his attention has been called by the Medical Officer of Health for the parish of St. Marylebone to the dangerously filthy condition of the Ornamental Water in the Regent's Park, and whether he proposes to take any steps to cause the same to be cleansed; and whether he has any objection to lay upon the table of the House the Report and Analysis of the same forwarded to him by the Medical Officer.
 COLONEL NORTH : I regret that the Government should appear to have sanctioned in any way interference with those voters. The real ground of complaint is not that they were collected together, but that they were subjected to cross-examination; and I should be glad, Mr. Speaker, if you would be good enough to inform me whether your warrant did justify anything beyond the mere service on the persons to whom it is addressed.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether the Government propose to introduce any measure relating to the Standing Order of which the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. T, Hughes) had given notice?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN : Will it be convenient to introduce the Bill of the Government before the discussion of the hon. Gentleman's (Mr. T. Hughes) Standing Order?
 MR. SAMUDA : The speed of our fastest frigates—fourteen or fifteen knots.
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he had listened attentively to the criticisms which the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty had bestowed upon the observations made by him upon a previous occasion; but before he replied to them he would say a few words upon the remarks, more personal in their nature, which had fallen from the noble Lord with respect to some contracts in which he had been engaged. It would be in the remembrance of the House that with reference to the  Prince Albert 1357 Bellerophon Bellerophon Prince Albert 1358 Bellerophon Bellerophon Bellerophon Bellerophon 1359 Belvidera Defence Resistance Prince Albert 1360 Warrior
 MR. LOWE : I entirely agree with the noble Lord who has just sat down (Viscount Cranbourne) that an impropriety has been committed in this case. It is quite clear to me it was not right that these men should be cross-examined by the attorney for the petitioner in the dockyard, and in the manner described, because they must necessarily have felt that they were under duress to answer questions which it is not likely they would have answered if put to them in their private houses. Looking at the matter fully and fairly, it is quite clear that the question we are really concerned with is, not whether the clerk of the petitioners may have been a little over-zealous in pressing this matter, and have availed himself to the utmost of the advantages he obtained, but whether any serious blame or discredit rests upon the authorities by
 1297
 MR. GRAVES : He believed they were not. Indeed, he was speaking altogether of unarmour-clad vessels; but with these facts before them he thought it most undesirable that the Admiralty should go on building ships of the  Amazon Amazon 1337 Pallas the Alabama nor Florida Pallas Pallas Pallas Research 1338 Monarch
 MR. GRAVES  said, he had listened with great interest to the statement of the noble Lord in introducing the Estimates, and was especially gratified by the announcement that the minimum in the reduction of the  personnel 1335 Alabama Alabama Amazon Amazons 1336 Alabama "There is now in progress of construction the  Chattanooga Idaho Madawaska, Wampanoag, Neshaming, Ammonoosuc Pompanoosuc
 MR. WALPOLE : My hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General does not apprehend the nature of the case altogether, if he imagines that the main issue is involved in the service of the warrant. At the close of his speech he touched indirectly upon the graver part of the subject. I agree with my right hon. Friend the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) that no Minister of the Crown has ever conducted himself more ably, and, I believe, more honourably, than the noble Duke at the head of the Admiralty. But really that is not the question before us. The question
 1301
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I will undertake to bring in the Bill in the course of a few days.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I presume, Sir, the Question of the hon. and gallant Member refers to a Bill which I introduced last Session containing certain clauses in the public interest with the view of its being incorporated in any special Railway Act affecting the metropolis. That Bill would not have met the proposal of the hon. Member for Lambeth, as his suggested Standing Orders are to apply to all companies asking powers to take lands and houses for any kind of works. Our Bill was limited to railway companies. We are in communication with the Metropolitan Board of Works on the subject of the
 1286
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, the Report relating to the loss of the  London London
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that though this Bill was one of great importance no explanation had been given at its introduction; and though he understood the Bill was to be referred to the Committee which had been appointed respecting the Public Accounts, he thought its principle ought to be known to the House before it went into Committee. The Bill was practically an abolition of all control of that House over the issues by Votes of Supply. He was not going to object to its principle, but it was a very important one. The Committee on Public Money which sat several years ago discussed very fully the nature of the control exercised by the Comptroller of the Exchequer over the public issues of all money from the Exchequer. After a Vote by Parliament an application was necessary to be made to the Comptroller of the Exchequer, and his sanction was given if he ascertained that the Vote was in accordance with the Act of Parliament. This was the check which the present Bill would abolish. He perceived that the Chancellor of the Exchequer dissented from this statement. He admitted that the opinion of the Committee on Public Money appeared to have been that the check was of no very practical importance. Still it had had the sanction of Parliament from time to time, and the Comptroller of the Exchequer had been supposed to hold an office of great importance. This Bill was to unite the office of Comptroller with that of Auditor. Now, the duties of the Comptroller and those of the Auditor were two sorts of duties which had always appeared to him, and had, he thought, appeared to the Committee, to be very different the one from the other. The Chancellor of the Exchequer dissented from his statement that such was the opinion of the Committee; but the Committee never had recommended that they should be united and discharged by one officer. It might be wise to abolish the office of Comptroller and make the real check that of the Auditor. It was true that while there had been a control over the issues there had been none over the expenditure. No issue could be obtained without Parliamentary authority; but the moment the issue took place Parliamentary control ceased. The recommendation of the Committee was that the Audit Office should be made a more important one, and that it should be made so efficient that, early in the following year after the various Votes of Supply were passed, every Mem-
 1370 pro formâ
 MR. BAXTER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of the Treasury, If any time has been fixed for bringing to a close the enormous expenditure at Alderney, and if the Estimate of £1,300,000 was to be exceeded?
 MR. FERRAND  said, that though he had no practical knowledge to lay before the Committee, yet as he represented a large constituency who were interested in naval matters, he wished to make a few remarks on the speech of the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty. The noble Lord had expressed his regret at the absence of several Members who had formerly taken part in the discussions on naval affairs; but he (Mr. Ferrand) must say he had never known greater talent or more practical knowledge displayed in debate than the House had at present the advantage of. The noble Lord had especially regretted the absence of Sir Frederic Smith. He thought that when that hon. and gallant Officer read the remarks of the noble Lord he would look upon them as satirical, for he had heard that gallant officer say that no person had taken such pains to keep him out of the House as the noble Lord had. Three topics had been dwelt upon by the hon. Members who had taken part in this discussion of the Estimates; and no one had contradicted their statements. These were, first, the unjust treatment of Captain Coles. Second, the dismissal of Mr. Lang and others. Third, the state of our iron fleet. He (Mr. Ferrand) was not acquainted with Captain Coles, and should not know him if he met him; but he had taken great interest in the discussions going on for several years with regard to the invention of Captain Coles and his claims on the navy. For ten years Captain Coles had applied for permission to build a turret-ship, and for five of those years he had made his appeal in vain. Impediments of the most extraordinary kind had been thrown in his way. The cause of those impediments had been freely discussed in the public papers. But, while Captain Coles had been denied the privilege of
 1329 "I have the satisfaction of feeling that I have fulfilled all my professions, though under the greatest disadvantage and opposition. I like opposition with fair play; it elucidates the truth; but has this opposition been fair to the country, or have I met with fair play? Give me a hundredth part of the encouragement and assistance Mr. Reed is given, and I think we could turn out a sea-going ship with as much dispatch as the  Pallas Bellerophon Royal Sovereign con amore 1330
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he took great interest in the question, having
 1374 1375
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the correspondence would show the course intended to be taken.
 SIR GEORGE GREY,  in reply, said, the correspondence on the subject had been laid upon the table. It was in the hands of the printers, and would shortly be delivered to hon. Members, when it would be found to give full information with reference to the carrying into effect the Prisons Act of last Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am informed that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners are in negotiation with the Dean and Chapter of Westminster for a commutation of their capitular estates, but that the terms of the transfer have not been yet settled.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I cannot agree with the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down, in absolving the heads of the Admiralty from all blame in this matter, although, perhaps, the consequence of the permission given by the Duke of Somerset was not, in the first instance, properly attended to. Now, let us observe how the case stands. We all know that, according to the best authorities, the warrant of the Speaker can be served perfectly well, not personally, but by being left at the dwelling-houses of the persons required to give evidence. All that was necessary on the part of the agents for this petition was the service of the warrant. They knew where these men lived, and all they had to do was to leave the warrant at the dwelling-houses of the witnesses. But I must do the agents the justice of saying that nothing could have been more explicit than the statement they made to the Duke of Somerset. In the letter to the noble Lord, if I correctly heard the words, the agents of the peti-
 1298 1299
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Would the noble Lord kindly read the whole letter?
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he wished to know if it would refer to the appointment of an additional inspector?
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any arrangements have been made to ensure the uniform carrying into effect of the Prisons Act of last Session; and, if so, whether such arrangements include the appointment of an additional Inspector of Prisons?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  in rising, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the Government to certain statements as to the manner in which Dockyard workmen who are Voters for the Borough of Devon-port have been examined in the Dockyard with reference to their intended evidence before the Election Committee for that Borough, and to ask for explanation, said: I am sincerely sorry that I am compelled by a sense of duty to ask the attention of Her Majesty's Government, and of the House, to the statements that have been laid before me with regard to certain proceedings that have been taken during the last few days in the borough of Devonport. I confess I had hoped that the day of political scandal and intimidation, or even of the suspicion of either in our dockyards, had passed away; and I very much hope that my noble Friend opposite (Lord Clarence Paget) may be able either to state that I have been misinformed, or to offer a satisfactory explanation with regard to the allegations that I am about to lay before the House. Sir, the facts to which I wish to draw attention are very simple, and I think I shall be able to state them in a very few sentences. The first fact to which I wish to call attention is a telegram which I am informed was sent down by the Admiralty to the borough of Devonport last week. It is dated February 20, but it was not sent down to Devonport until the following day, the 21st. The wording of the telegram is as follows:—
 "Admiralty, Feb. 20, 1866. "Every facility is to be given for serving the Speaker's warrant on the workmen in the yard in the ease of the petition against the sitting Members for Devonport.—For the information of the officers." 1288 1289 1290 1291
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK,  in bringing under the notice of the House the grievances of which the Masters in the Royal Nary complained, said, that the Masters in the Royal Navy were astonished at the way in which their case was stated to the House on a previous occasion by the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty, and at the earliest opportunity they had drawn up a statement, in which they alleged that the valuable services of the Masters in the navy during late years could not be disputed. They then particularized the grievances under which they laboured, and embodied them in a pamphlet. In that pamphlet they alleged that the Masters did not gain the advantages to which they were entitled, that they were placed in an unfavourable position, and that the recommendations of the Committee of 1862 had never been carried out; and they alleged further, that when the noble Lord the Secretary of the Admiralty stated, as he had upon one occasion, that no memorials had been received from the Masters in the service with regard to their pay, it must be well known that the framing and signing such memorials were contrary to the Queen's Regulations. By the Naval Discipline Act of 1863 any officer was fully authorized to make known to his superior officer any just cause of complaint; but he was not permitted to combine with others for the purpose of obtaining redress. Finding individual remonstrance of no avail the Masters presented a memorial, which would be a sufficient answer to the assertion of the Secretary to the Admiralty, that they had asked for no increase of pay. It prayed that, with regard to relative rank, pay, pensions, and social position, they might be placed on the same footing as medical officers, of whom they had always had precedence since the Order of March, 1808. The noble Lord had also stated
 1318 particeps criminis 1319 1320
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT : I do not wish to make any attack upon the
 1315
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that the present Estimates exhibited great similarity to those of last year. As the noble Lord the Secretary to the Admiralty had said, the alteration which had been made in the Navy Estimates was simply a reduction of the  personnel 1323 1324 Royal Sovereign 1325 Monarch Monadnock 1326 Scotia 1327 hors de combat 1328
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member that it would be wrong and even indecent to read a Bill of such cardinal importance a second time without some discussion. It related to a matter which really lay at the root of the functions of the House of Commons—namely, the granting of money; and it appeared materially to alter the principles on which Parliament had proceeded. They were not, however, in a satisfactory position then to discuss the subject. The question was one with which comparatively few Members of the House were acquainted, and even those few could not speak authoritatively on the merits of the measure till they had had an opportunity of looking more closely at its clauses, and examining officers outside of the House as to the operation it might be expected to have. They might talk very easily as to the matter of principle, and say it was a question whether they would have two checks or one—whether they would have the principle of control, and the principle of audit, or whether they would trust mainly to the latter. But if they were to substitute the principle of audit for the principle of control, they must show that by their regulations they made the principle of audit thoroughly effective; and for that purpose it would be necessary to examine those Gentlemen who were practically concerned, as representing the Audit Office and other Departments of the State, as to the exact effect of some of these clauses. That was just one of those questions upon which they were bound in duty not to trust the Government, but rather, if he might say so, to distrust it. He did not intend to speak disrespectfully of Government, for he thought it was a very
 1371 1372
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If any and what arrangements are making for taking systematic and permanent Meteorological Observations either at the Board of Trade or at the Greenwich and Kew Observatories, for British objects; and whether Foreign Governments will be invited to co-operate, by causing simultaneous Meteorological Observations to be made with a view to arriving at a knowledge of the physical laws which cause atmospheric changes?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : They can be if the hon. Gentleman wishes it, but they have been already widely distributed.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, he wished to ask a Question with reference to the Cattle Plague. He desired to know, If in future sufficient time will be given for the Returns to be sent in, so that they might get them with something like accuracy?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that as the object of the Returns was to give accurate information of the progress of the disease, it would be far better to delay them even for a week than to present them in their present incomplete form. He would endeavour to secure greater accuracy and completeness.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE,  in reply, said, the article in the Revised Code originally stood thus—
 "The grant is withheld altogether if the registers be not kept with sufficient accuracy to warrant confidence in the Returns." "The grant is withheld altogether if the registers and accounts be not kept with sufficient accuracy to warrant confidence in the Returns." 1394
 MR. GREGORY  said, that before he gave notice of his intention to bring forward this subject he had ascertained that the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Horsfall), who in 1863 laid so clearly before the House the position in which we were placed by the Declaration of Paris in 1856, did not purpose calling attention to the subject. This being a new Parliament the subject was one which he thought ought to be discussed as early as possible. It had been said, in harsh and unjust comments upon himself, that he was the last person to bring forward such a Motion, as having been one of those who "justified and extolled the construction in England of cruisers for the purpose of destroying American property by sea." It so happened that although he had frequently addressed the House on American affairs, and although he was repeatedly asked to take part in the debates respecting the  Alabama, Alexandra, 1408 "That the present state of International Maritime Law as affecting the rights of belligerents and neutrals is ill-defined and unsatisfactory, and calls for the early attention of Her Majesty's Government." "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that she will be graciously pleased to use her influence with foreign Powers for the purpose of making the principle that private property should be free from capture by sea a maxim of International Maritime Law." 1409 "At a special meeting of committee held here this day the question was again fully discussed, and I have been requested to transmit for your information copy of a report on the subject which was submitted to Her Majesty's Government by a deputation which waited upon the President of the Board of Trade in the beginning of the year 1860, and I may also at the same time acquaint you that the experience of the last six years has confirmed the Committee in the opinion therein expressed—namely, that it is essential to the interests of British shipping that private property at sea should be exempt from capture." The Times "He hoped that the principles of war which were applied to hostilities by land might be extended, without exception, to hostilities by sea, and that private property should no longer be exposed to aggression on either side. If we looked at the example of former periods, we should not find that any powerful country was ever vanquished by the losses of individuals. It was the conflicts of armies by land, or fleets by sea, that decided the great contests of nations, and it was, perhaps, to be desired that these conflicts should be confined to bodies acting under the orders and directions of the respective States." 1410 1411 "The United States commerce is rapidly vanishing from the face of the earth, and that of Great Britain multiplying in the same ratio. In three years before the war there was sold to British subjects 123 vessels, representing 47,675 tons; dur-
 1412 London Review "The present state of the law relating to maritime capture will ensure to Great Britain in the first great war she undertakes the temporary and perhaps permanent loss of nearly all her carrying trade, the transfer of numbers of her ships and seamen to foreign countries, and mischief to her commerce on the ocean immeasurably out of proportion to any she will be able to inflict upon her foes." 1413 The Times "It is obvious that one reason why foreign nations are unwilling to go to war with England is the certainty that their commerce would be crippled and their ships would be sure to fall into the hands of our cruisers; but, on the contrary, if they were sure their merchant ships would be allowed to pass in safety one great reason for peace would be taken away." "A stipulation not to allow our naval force to be used against commercial vessels would be a great provocation to war, and the power of Great Britain would be greatly lessened." 1414 "Private property by land is exempt from confiscation with the exception of such as may become booty in special cases, when taken from enemies in the field, or in besieged towns, and of military contributions. That was a case of necessity which could never happen at sea." 1415 1416 "Anything of this kind must be settled by-treaty, but war abrogates all treaties; consequently, even supposing such a thing as a treaty between France and England on this subject, the moment war broke out France and England would consider all these engagements as null and void." 1417 "It is probably not generally known that the very proposal which the American Government have submitted within the last five years was made by them in the first treaty with England after the Declaration of Independence, eighty years ago. It had its origin with that great man, Dr. Franklin, who carried into his diplomacy, as into his philosophy, a high and genial principle of philantrophy. In the  Autobiographical Memoirs of Thomas Jefferson "He agreed readily to meet the European Powers on the ground of exempting private property from capture by sea." 1418 "A new era in the relation of neutrals to belligerents on the high seas will open. Neutral ports in that event, will before long become the true centres from which the most effective and dangerous enterprizes against the commerce of belligerents may be contrived, fitted out, and executed. The existing restrictions upon the exploits of daring adventurers will rapidly become obsolete, and no new ones will be adopted. Ships, men, and money will always be had for the service of any Power sufficiently strong to hold forth a probability of repayment in any form, or adroit enough to secure a share of the popular sympathy in its undertakings. New  Floridas, Alabamas, Shenandoahs, North American Papers, "In operations of war, carried on by land, the property, even territorial, which foreign subjects possess is not subject to confiscation. The laws which regulate the conduct of a belligerent by land are therefore more in conformity with civilization and the welfare of private individuals, and
 1419 1420
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said that having taken part in the discussion of 1862, to which his hon. Friend (Mr. Gregory) had referred, he wished to make a few observations. He thought that the hon. Member was in error in saying that Sir George Lewis had suggested a Motion similar to the one now before the House. In fact, even if the House agreed in the views of his hon. Friend, it could not agree to his Resolution. The hon. Member asked the House to resolve that private property ought not to be captured at sea, and he
 1421 1422 "If the use of privateers be abandoned, the dominion of the seas will be surrendered to those Powers which adopt the policy and have the means of keeping up large navies. In case of war between two Powers of almost equal commerce, but unequal naval strength, an inconsiderable part of the force of the one would be required to prevent that of the other from being used for defence or aggression, while the remainder would be devoted to the unembarrassed employment of destroying the commerce of the weaker in naval strength." pur et simple, 1423 1424
 MR. LIDDELL  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the House had rested a great portion of his argument upon this consideration—that the Declaration of Paris rendered the present Motion unnecessary, and had asserted that the only new propositions laid down in that Declaration were those which had reference to privateering and to enemy's goods being covered by a neutral flag. Now, he thought that in consequence of the Declaration concerning privateering, this country was placed in a difficult and dangerous position, and he therefore felt disposed to support the Motion of his hon. Friend opposite. The House, he believed, scarcely appreciated the exact position in which this question of privateering now stood, and he could not agree that the present moment was not favourable for its consideration. He wished to make all due allowance for the difficult and delicate situation occupied by this country as a neutral during the late American War. This country had, however, committed two great acts of omission. She had carried the argument of the rights of "commercial adventure" dangerously far, and neglected to provide sufficient safeguards against the equipment of privateers and vessels that might be used as privateers. Another grave omission had been in not claiming the restoration of
 1425 Alabama, 1426 1427 1428
 MR. BAXTER  said, that having listened attentively to all the speeches made against a Motion similar to the present one in 1862, and also to the speeches made that evening, particularly to the argumentative one of his hon. Friend (Sir Francis Goldsmid), he felt convinced that the adoption of the principle laid down in the Resolution of the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory) was but a mere question of time. Those who took a view adverse to that principle attached too little importance to the vast changes which had come over military, maritime, and commercial affairs, as well as over public opinion, during the last half century. Warfare on the old principle, especially warfare by sea, was every year becoming more difficult, and an increasing commerce rendered it less likely. The time was far from come when men would turn their swords into ploughshares; nevertheless, it was impossible for us or any nation to carry on maritime warfare on the principles which guided us in the last great war with France. Much had been said about the difficulty into which we were brought by what was done at the Conference of Paris in 1856; but it should be remembered that in 1854 the Queen in Council laid down those very principles, which were only confirmed, not initiated, by the action of the Conference of Paris two years later. The hon. Member for Reading (Sir Francis Goldsmid) said, he would never believe that England would permit her hands to be tied by any engagements of the kind; but England had already made those engagements, not only by the part she took at the Conference of Paris, but by the Orders in Council of 1854; and, therefore, the first of that hon. Member's able arguments fell to the ground. It was absolutely necessary for us either to go back and reverse the decision come to in 1854, and confirmed in 1856, or to take another step forward in the direction indicated by the hon. Member for Galway. The hon. Member for Reading, adopting an ex-
 1429 Alabamas 1430
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that he had not stated that in war we ought to be allowed to stamp out our enemies. He would be sorry to have uttered so savage a sentiment. He was merely alluding to the habits of an animal. His argument was that England ought not to be placed at a disadvantage.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that if the principle of this Resolution were car-
 1431 "Free bottoms make free goods,' and' the goods of a belligerent are safe in neutral vessels and the goods of a neutral safe in belligerent vessels,' have always been regarded as injurious to the supremacy of maritime countries, and especially to the maritime power of England. Every one who has looked at the arguments on this subject will see that the rules were laid down as a blow to the maritime supremacy of this country. Since that time, the Secretary of State of the United States has proposed to go a step further than this treaty—that Great Britain should agree that all merchant vessels should be free from capture during time of war. It appears to me, I own, that although this proposal carries with it an air of philanthropy, it is one which would not tend to prevent war, and which, if it did not tend to prevent war, would greatly cripple the energies of this country in time of war." "I am afraid we must be bound by the Declaration. I am afraid that the consequences are so serious as to show that the Declaration was very imprudent, and I cannot but agree with the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lindsay) that England ought to preserve her maritime superiority. The state of this question is to me very alarming, but I do not see that a breach of faith would at all mend our position.—[3  Hansard, "A naval Power like England ought not to surrender any means of weakening her enemies at sea. If we did not seize their seamen on board their merchant vessels, we should have to fight them on board their ships of war. I deny that
 1432 "Whatever losses Russia may have suffered by this war, whatever embarrassments she may have experienced, I hesitate not to say that they are more than compensated by the adoption of that one Article, gratuitously inserted by the French and British Plenipotentiaries, by which, in the words of Mr. Pitt, you have sacrificed the maritime greatness of England on the shrine of Russia…Depend upon it, when painful experience shall make the country wring her hands and not her bells, she will know on whose head to visit the consequences of the decline of her power and greatness."—[3  Hansard, 1433
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS : If I thought it possible that those who are charged with the administrative guidance of our affairs, or those who may hereafter succeed them, could regard with the levity and unconcern of the hon. Gentleman opposite the moral obligations of the understanding come to at the Conference of Paris by all the Great Powers of Europe, I should indeed look upon this as a wasted evening, and the present as a vain debate. That understanding cannot, indeed, be said to have the binding efficacy of a treaty; but International Law does not consist of the mere ties and bonds mutually imposed by civilized States on one another; but, like the Constitution under which we have the happiness to live, it is the aggregate and sum of a vast and varied series of precedents, concessions, and reciprocal acknowledgments of the worth of justice and the wisdom of humanity in the dealings of nation with nation in peace and in war. The resolutions taken at Paris at the suggestion of M. Walewski, as the representative of the French Emperor, have all the characteristics of a forethoughtful and high-minded policy. They were commended to the attention of the assembled diplomatists of Europe, on the noble plea that as the Congress of Westphalia had ratified the principle of liberty of conscience, and that of Vienna had been signalized by the abolition of the slave trade, so that of Paris would mark a happy epoch in political history if it secured immunity from capture and confiscation henceforth the property of neutrals and the repudiation of Letters of Marque. Not without instructions from their respective Governments, not hastily or privily, as some have supposed, but deliberately and solemnly, the Ministers of England, Germany, Italy, and Prussia gave their adhesion to the propositions of France; and a great step was thereby taken in the direction of international pro-
 1434 1435 Alabama, "It is not presumed that our anti-Enlistment Act is defective, or that Great Britain has
 1436 Non enim possunt una in civitate multi rem atque fortunas amittere, ut non plureis secum in eandem calamitatem trahant. 1437
 MR. BUXTON  said, that the importance of the question which his hon. Friend had brought before them could hardly be exaggerated, nor could any question press more urgently for prompt settlement. As the present Prime Minister had said, "the state of this question was very alarming." Now, this proposal had been talked of as emanating from a mere feeling of maudlin humanity. He denied that the question was a question of humanity. It did so happen that if this proposal were carried into effect vast numbers of persons in case of war would be saved from utter ruin; but that was purely incidental. That was not the motive for its adoption. The question was a question not of humanity, but of policy, and he was at a loss to imagine how any one could have carefully examined the arguments on both sides without perceiving clearly that the Imperial interests of this country most strongly demanded that Government should strain every nerve to induce the Great Powers to accede to the rule that shipping, as well as goods, should be free from capture. For, look how the matter now stood. The Declaration of Paris, whether it was, as in his opinion it undoubtedly was, wise and noble, or whether it was weak and foolish, at any rate, could not be repudiated. It would be disgraceful to this country to enter into an agreement with the other Great Powers, and then a few years afterwards fling it carelessly aside from mere vacillation. But more than that. In these days it would be utterly impossible for this or any other country to insult their allies by taking enemy's goods out of the holds of neutral vessels, unless, indeed, they were implements of war intended to help the enemy. The history of the last 100 years had shown, with only too ample demonstration, the frightful evils that such an attempt could not fail to engender. No
 1438 s. 1439 Alabama, 1440 1441 1442 1443
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that there could be no doubt whatever as to the importance of the question raised. He would freely admit the value of the argument in favour of the Motion, that if we were engaged in a war with any maritime country, our commerce and our merchants would suffer more than the commerce or the merchants of any other country, and no doubt whatever expedients might be
 1444 1445 1446 1447 1448
 MR. LAING  said, that after the observations of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down, it was evident there was nothing to be expected from the Government, and it was absolutely necessary for those who desired the alteration in the law now proposed to appeal to public opinion, and to state fairly the grounds upon which they believed that such an alteration would tend to the advantage of this country. The Lord Advocate told them to console themselves with the reflection that it was the great prosperity of the country that rendered it more open to attack than others, and that, as its commerce bad extended, so the area on which it could be attacked had widened. But that was not by any means the question at issue. The question was, whether a definite proposal to introduce a new principle into the existing International Maritime Law, which was apparently attainable by the consent of the European Powers, would or would not be, if adopted, for the advantage of this country. Every one must admit that the position into which England had been forced by recent transactions was exceedingly unsatisfactory. The Russian War, the Convention at Paris, the American War, and the re-
 1449 1450 bonâ fide "We admit that claimants on land are entitled to have their losses made good; but a great distinction is to be drawn between property taken by land, and property taken by sea; the former should be restored, but the latter should not." 1451 bonâ fide bonâ fide bonâ fide 1452 1453 1454 Alabama, 1455
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Sir, it seems generally agreed that there would be very small grounds for bringing this question before the House if it were not possible to allege some difference between the practice of capture on land and capture on sea to justify the proposed change. Now all speakers, especially the hon. Member who has just sat down, relied for proof that the private property is spared on land on the statements of distinguished jurists. I have no intention of meeting them on that ground. I have no doubt they could produce a pile of authorities as high as that table from distinguished jurists to prove that property on land is exempt from capture; but when war is raging, when blood is drawn, and passions are let loose, distinguished jurists are not the men that govern mankind. On that subject I shall not appeal to the opinions of distinguished jurists but to the actions of distinguished generals. I ask whether the campaigns of the Emperor Napoleon I. were distinguished by their regard for private property on land. But we are told that although it is only half a century since the great Napoleon carried on his great wars, the human race has advanced and civilization and public law have advanced with it, and we are for the future to conclude that ambition and passion will be restrained by limits which, in the time of Napoleon I., were inadequate to hold him in. Then, I would
 1456 pro tanto "Atlanta, Night of the 15th November. "A grand and awful spectacle is presented to the beholder in this beautiful city, now in flames. By order, the chief engineer has destroyed by powder and fire all the storehouses, depot buildings, and machine shops. The heaven is one expanse of lurid fire; the air is filled with flying, burning cinders; buildings covering two hundred acres are in ruins or in flames; every instant there is
 1457 "As rumour of the approach of our army reached the frightened inhabitants, frantic efforts were made to conceal not only their personal valuable effects, plate, jewellery, and other rich good, but also articles of food, such as hams, sugar, flour,  &c." "A large part of these supplies were carried to the neighbouring swamps; but the favourite method of concealment was the burial of the treasures in the pathways and gardens adjoining the dwelling-houses. Sometimes also the graveyards were selected as the best place of security from the 'Vandal hands' of the invaders. Unfortunately for these people the negroes betrayed them, and in the early part of the march the soldiers learned the secret. It is possible that supplies thus hidden may have escaped the search of our men; but if so, it was not for want of diligent exploration. With untiring zeal the soldiers hunted for concealed treasures. Wherever the army halted, almost every inch of ground in the vicinity of the dwellings was poked with ramrods, pierced with sabres, or upturned with spades. The universal digging was good for the garden land, but its results were distressing to the rebel owners of exhumed property, who saw it rapidly and irretrievably "confiscated.'" "Columbia will have bitter cause to remember the visit of Sherman's army. Even if peace and prosperity soon return to the land, not in this generation nor the next—no, not for a century—can this city or the State recover from the deadly blow which has taken its life. It is not alone in the property that has been destroyed—the buildings, bridges, mills, railroads, material of every description." 1458 1459
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, his attention had been particularly drawn to this subject recently, and he had seen much which led him to believe that it was of the utmost importance that something should be done regarding it. He would, in the first place, say a few words on what had fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Stamford. Having but just returned from the late Confederate States, he might say he fully concurred in every statement made with regard to the destruction committed therein. Wherever Sherman went there was great destruction not only of public, but also of private property. But did the noble Lord (Viscount Cranbourne) justify this devastation or declare that the destruction of private property on land without necessity, and without serving any military purpose, was approved by him? ["No!"] The noble Lord said "No!" and yet he maintained that it was perfectly legitimate to destroy private property on sea. If the noble Lord then held that it was perfectly justifiable to seize and destroy private property at sea, though not necessary for the interest of the captor, whilst he considered Sherman's conduct unjustifiable on land, did he not himself draw that distinction which he asked the House to believe had no existence? And now he came to the question proposed by his hon. Friend the Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory). He would endeavour to summarize the arguments on the one side and on the other. His hon. Friend argued first that the British nation, should it become involved in war, would run the greatest risk of injury, inasmuch as it had such a large amount of private property at sea. In the next place, that the naval resources of the country would be injured, because, the navy being largely recruited from the merchant service, anything that injured the latter would injure the former, and therefore the maritime superiority of England would suffer. And lastly, that by the Declaration of Paris, whilst the risk to our commerce remained the same, we had lost many of the means we had for crippling the resources of the enemy, and, although we retained all the disadvantages, we had none of the advantages we possessed before. The Lord Advocate, on the other hand, while admitting to a great extent the force of these arguments, held that it was necessary we should run the risk in order to uphold the supremacy of England. But what was meant by this supremacy? If Great Bri-
 1461 Alabama, Shenandoah, Florida, 1462
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, in addressing myself to this question, I hope that I may avoid exposing myself to the censure of the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing), who complains that my pro-
 1463 1464 bonâ fide 1465 1466 1467 1468 1469 locus standi 1470 locus standi Trent. 1471 1472 Alabama 1473 Alabama 1474 Alabama Alabama. "As regards your demand for a more effective prevention for the future of the fitting out of such vessels in British ports, I have the honour to inform you that Her Majesty's Government, after consultation with the Law Officers of the Crown, are of opinion that certain amendments might be introduced into the Foreign Enlistment Act, which, if sanctioned by Parliament, would have the effect of giving greater power to the Executive to prevent the construction, in British ports, of ships destined for the use of belligerents. But Her Majesty's Government consider that before submitting any proposals of that sort to Parliament it would be desirable that they should previously communicate with the Government of the United States and ascertain whether that Government is willing to make similar alterations in its own Foreign Enlistment Act, and that the amendments, like the original statutes, should, as it were, proceed  pari passu 1475 "On a second point, however—namely, whether the law with respect to equipment of vessels for hostile purposes might be improved, Mr. Adams Said 'that his Government were ready to listen to any propositions Her Majesty's Government had to make; but they did not see how their law on this subject could be improved.' I said that the Cabinet had come to a similar conclusion; so that no further proceedings need be taken at present on this subject."—[North American Papers, 1863 (No. 3), p. 48.] "I observed that his Lordship's suggestion of possible amendments to the enlistment laws, in order to make them more effective, had been favourably received. Although the law of the United States was considered as of very sufficient vigour, the Government were not unwilling to consider propositions to improve upon it. To that end I had been directed to ask whether any such had yet been matured by Her Majesty's Ministers; if so, I should be happy to receive and to transmit them to Washington. His Lordship, repeating my remark, that my Government considered its present enlistment law as sufficiently effective, then added, that since his note was written the subject had been considered in the Cabinet, and the Lord Chancellor had expressed the same opinion of the British law. Under these circumstances, he did not see that he could have any change to propose. I replied that I should report this answer to my Government." 1476 "Your despatch of the 13th of February has been received. It informs us that, on a re-examination of the subject, Her Majesty's Government have come to a conclusion that the present Enlistment Law of Great Britain is sufficient without amendments, and that, therefore, they have none to propose. It remains for this Government, therefore, only to say that it will be your duty to urge upon Her Majesty's Government the desire and expectation of the President that henceforward Her Majesty's Government will take the necessary measures to enforce the execution of the law as faithfully as this Government has executed the corresponding statutes of the United States." 1477 1478 1479
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I should hope, Sir, that the debate on this question, which has been very fully discussed, will be closed this evening. A House more interested in a subject I have never seen; and I am sure if the hon. Gentleman is now disposed to give us the advantage of his opinions, the House will be ready to listen to him.
 MR. OLIPHANT  said, he felt relieved by the speech of the Attorney General. No one who was wavering before it was delivered would now go into the lobby against the Motion of the hon. Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory). Up to the time when the Attorney General rose no speech had been delivered in opposition to the Motion which really deserved an answer. The noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Viscount Cranbourne) argued that because General Sherman had burnt some houses at Atlanta we were to be bound for ever to the present system of maritime warfare. The Lord Advocate argued that because our commerce was more extended than before we were now in a better position to attack other people, while the Attorney General had put forward nothing in defence of the existing Neutrality Laws which he could not have urged with greater force had he been Attorney General of Greece or of the smallest Power in Europe. Of course, the wish of a small maritime Power would be to prey upon the resources of a greater Power if it was unfortunately involved with it in war. The effect of the Motion, if carried, would be to maintain rather than to impair our maritime supremacy. At present, if we were at war with any Power, however small, our whole navy would be occupied all over the world in protecting our commerce, and we should have no ships to spare to meet those of our adversaries. There could be no question that strategically our maritime position would be materially strengthened by such a change in the law. As to the question of blockade, there was no reason to suppose that we should
 1480
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was unwilling to expose the majority of the occupants of the Treasury Bench, whose opinions were really in his favour, to the necessity of voting against their convictions, and he would therefore withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, that he was glad that the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had been called to the subject of Exchequer Bills. Under the former management the country sustained a loss of three or four hundred thousand pounds through a spurious issue.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the earth embankment alluded to by the hon. Member had been erected on that portion of Regent's Park which was let on yearly tenure. The person who erected the mound did not, previous to his erecting it, make any communication to the Board of Works. On being asked his reason for erecting the mound he stated that his object was to conceal certain green-houses and manure heaps from the public view. The Board of Works did not think it necessary to remove the mound altogether, but they required the person who had erected it to lower it considerably.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he wished to point out that under the present system of rating in various parts of England the best and most lucrative property was the only property which did not pay its quota to the highway rates. With regard to iron, coal, and lead mines, there were special reasons, beyond merely abstract rules, why they should be rated for the relief of the poor. Owing to the nature of the work in those mines large numbers of the men were incapacitated for labour
 1405
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the correspondence which had taken place between Her Majesty's Government and the Portuguese Government on the subject of the slave trade on the east coast of Africa had been laid on the table of the House in various State Papers, and he should shortly be able to present to the House a continuance of the correspondence on the same subject. Her Majesty's Government had not recently made any representations to the Portuguese Government relative to the conduct of their officials on that coast, there being no evidence to inculpate them. In former days he was afraid they were largely engaged in the slave trade, and at that time strong remonstrances were made by the English Government to the Portuguese Government. It was perfectly true that nothing could exceed the horrors of that trade on the eastern coast of Africa, and it would seem that as it was extinguished on the west coast it increased on the east coast of Africa. At the same
 1392
 MR. SAMUELSON  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) experienced a difficulty in dealing with the question in that House considerably more difficulty was felt in bringing it judicially before the House of Lords. If the right hon. Gentleman concurred in opinion with those who advocated the rating of mines, it was not sufficient for him, as President of the Poor Law Board, to excuse himself on the ground of the difficulty of passing a Bill through the House.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he was glad that the hon. Member for Cornwall (Mr. Kendall) had interposed between him and the Questions which two hon. Members had put to him. It was assumed that he had been dilatory in bringing in a measure which might be carried with the greatest ease, and that there was no difficulty whatever about the matter; but the few remarks made by the hon. Member for Cornwall indicated that that view was not quite correct. The hon. Gentleman (Mr. Kendall) had supplied the best answer to any such idea. He had himself been the Chairman of a Committee on the subject, and he had let twelve years pass without taking any action upon it. He (Mr. Villiers) agreed with all that had been said by the hon. Gentlemen who had questioned him; and if they could only bring the House to their views, he should be very glad. He had not understood from the notice given him by the hon. Member for Shoreham (Mr. Cave) of his intended Question that he meant then to enter into that subject as he had done, but he did not complain of the hon. Member's having entered into it. That hon. Gentleman stated that he (Mr. Villiers) had said that he would defer to the judgment recently given by the House of Lords in the case of the Mersey Docks, and that the necessity of passing a Bill through Parliament to alter the law was less urgent than it had been. Now, he had not stated that that judgment was given upon the same matter as that now before the House. What he had stated was, that for the first time the conflicting decisions of the Courts below in an analogous matter were taken before the Supreme Court of Appeal, were there reviewed, and a judgment finally given; and that the strict analogy between those questions would lead one to suppose that the Judges would take that breadth of view in the one case that had been taken by the highest Court of Appeal in the other, and would determine the point in a more satisfactory manner than could be done in a struggle to get a measure of that kind passed through that House. The question before the House of Lords was, whether the proper construction had been put upon a clause in an Act of
 1401 expressio unius est exclusio alterious "I would advise the parish of Oswestry to rate the lands, planted as above described, to the relief of the poor. I do not think that the new plantations can be considered saleable underwood, but I apprehend that a man cannot exempt lands sub-
 1402 Elizabeth, 1403
 SIR HENRY BARRON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary to the Treasury, If he proposes to replenish the exhausted fund provided for making Fishery Piers?
 MR. CHILDERS,  in reply, said, his answer to the Question of the hon. Baronet was this. By the Act 9 & 10  Vict. Vict., 1391 Geo.
 MR. CHILDERS : I think hardly any money remains out of the £40,000 and £50,000. It is nearly all expended.
 MR. CHILDERS : Yes, I believe so.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON),  in reply, said, he considered that the practice and procedure in the Court of Admiralty in Ireland required reform, and he was preparing a Bill for that purpose.
 MR. HENDERSON  said, that a great anomaly existed in our system of local taxation. There was no doubt that the non-rating of iron, copper, stone, and other minerals had been the source of great complaint and litigation. It would be a great satisfaction to the country if the matter could be clearly settled by law; for now the proceedings in the courts were filling many with disgust and ruining others. He thought the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board ought to have assumed the responsibility which doubtless attached to his Department, instead of throwing it upon the Law Courts of the country, and to have brought in a measure dealing with the anomalies complained of, which would probably have been carried. The fact that ironstone, lead, copper, and other minerals were exempt from assessment for the poor was not a little startling, for they were sources of wealth so easily realized. Coal, which cost so much more in bringing to the market, had all along been contributing to the rates. Recent discoveries of various mineral ores in Cumberland and other parts of the north of England, had enormously increased the value of estates there, some having risen in value as much us 20, 40, and 50 per cent. He might
 1404
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether the earth embankment (about 200 feet long and twelve feet in width) as well as buildings in the Regent's Park, outside the grounds of St. Dunstan's Villa, are included in the Lease from the Crown of that Villa and grounds; and whether the buildings and shrubberies
 1393
 MR. LOCKE  said, he had on several occasions pointed out that the Union Chargeability Act, so far from conferring any benefit on the close parishes in the metropolis, tended to do them serious injury, because of the change made with regard to the irremovability of persons becoming chargeable after a residence of one year instead of three, as the law at present stood. Large numbers of people were driven out of certain localities in the metropolis on account of the alterations made for the purposes of railways and other improvements, and were necessarily obliged to go to the poorer districts, where burdens in the shape of rates came so heavily upon them that they frequently fell into distress, and themselves became chargeable on the parish. Now, the Poor Relief Committee came to the conclusion—
 "That, although much of the inequality which has been shown to exist as between parish and parish within the same union will now be obviated by the operation of the Irremovable Poor Act of 1861, and that inequality will be further
 1406 "It is proper, however, that your Committee should point out that the advantages which have been conferred upon the country generally by the two Acts just referred to have not been participated in by many largely and densely-populated single parishes in the metropolis not in union, which, so far from being benefited by the Irremovable Poor Acts, are now oppressed by additional poor, who but for those Acts would have been removable; and they have to add that, whatever importance may be attached to the impression entertained by some that in the rural districts the settled poor are better cared for than the others, this argument is certainly not applicable to the metropolis, inasmuch as persons are there employed without any consideration to their becoming chargeable; and, in the case of labouring men, their place of abode is very frequently in some other parish than that in which they are employed; and, with respect to the alleged injustice to a person who has acquired property in a low-rated parish being called upon to contribute to a neighbouring one more heavily burdened, it has been urged that there is an equal injustice committed, especially in the poorer parishes of the metropolis, where persons who have taken property find from circumstances beyond their control their rates and expenses rapidly increasing; the circumstances referred to being the destruction of whole districts by street improvements, railways, and other large works, whereby the working poor are deprived of their dwellings and necessarily driven to find them in places already impoverished." "That much evidence was adduced showing the unequal pressure of the charge for the relief of the poor in different parts of the metropolitan district, and various plans were submitted to your Committee for the equalization of the poor rate, and your Committee recommend the general question of extending the area of rating to the further consideration of the House; but the circumstances of the metropolis are so peculiar that in any legislation to extend the area of charge or management it would be necessary to have regard to those circumstances; that any measure for the extending of the area of rating should, in the opinion of
 1407
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he considers the present state of the law, practice, and procedure of the Irish Court of Admiralty satisfactory; whether there is any special reason why a measure of reform should not be based upon the Report and Recommendations of the Royal Commission of 1864; and whether it is the intention of the Government to allow another Session to elapse before such measure be practically undertaken, or to introduce it this year in sufficient time to afford a fair chance of its being passed during the present Session?
 MR. ROEBUCK : Have any piers been built?
 MR. ROEBUCK : Will the hon. Gentleman inform the House whether any piers have been built out of the money so voted by Parliament?
 MR. KENDALL  said, that before the President of the Poor Law Board replied he wished to say that the Committee of which he had been Chairman took a vast mass of evidence in relation to the rating of mines, and the interests involved were found to be so large that he had thought it quite impossible for any private Member to bring in and carry through Parliament a Bill dealing effectively with that subject. He had not changed his opinion on this matter. He hoped that mines would be rated; but having had considerable experience of Cornish mines, he could state that there never perhaps was a more unhappy time than now for the introduction of a Bill to rate them. He did not think
 1400
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, that the Question of which he had given notice was so closely connected with that of his hon. Friend that he would put it now. It is, Whether the President of the Poor Law Board proposes during the present Session to bring in a Bill for the purpose of rating Woods to the relief of the Poor; and any general measure for the amendment of the Poor Law founded on the Report of the Select Committee presented during the last Session. He quite agreed with his hon. Friend (Mr. Cave) that the question of rating mines was one of no difficulty. The question of rating woods, however, was one of very considerable difficulty. The point turned upon the construction of the Act of 43  Elisabeth, 1399
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, after the death of Admiral Fitzroy it was thought desirable to refer the question of the future arrangements for the conduct of the business of the Meteorological Department to a Committee of Inquiry, the members of which should be named by the Admiralty, the Board of Trade, and the Royal Society. This has been done, and the Committee are on the point of making their Report. Until this Report has been received and considered it is not possible to give a satisfactory reply to the Question of my hon. and gallant Friend.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If any representations have been made to the Government of Portugal regarding the connivance of Portuguese Officials on the East Coast of Africa with the slave trade, and likewise regarding the claim of Portugal to many hundred miles of that coast, where that power has no settlement or military force?
 MR. POWELL  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether Government intend to afford any information to Managers of Schools as to the nature of the accounts which, under Article 51 D of Revised Code, 1866, will be taken as "kept with sufficient accuracy to warrant confidence in the Returns," and to secure Managers from entire withholding of Grant on the ground of insufficient accuracy in such accounts?
 MR. POWELL : Will the right hon. Gentleman lay the forms on the table of the House?
 MR. CAVE  said, that when he had first placed his notice on the paper, he did not know who Mr. Hedley was; but he imagined that his communication to the Poor Law Board was official or  quasi-
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he rose to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he intends to bring in a Bill during the present Session for the rating of Mines and Woods for the relief of the poor? He would preface the Question by a few remarks. He supported the Union Chargeability Bill of the President of the Poor Law Board last Session, because he thought it was right in
 1395 Elizabeth, v. 1396 "A population of 17,000 have been congregated for the purpose of working mines where forty years ago it did not number as many hundreds. Immense fortunes have been made, but the-employers of labour have never been adequately rated, while the farmers have had their rates enormously in. creased without deriving any corresponding advantage. I am heavily rated, while I derive no pecuniary benefit from the population, which is a great burden to me." 1397 "No rate shall be in force which shall not be made upon an estimate of the rent at which hereditaments might reasonably be expected to let at from year to year." 1398 "I have visited the iron mines of Cleveland, the hæmatite mines of Lancashire, the lead mines of Cumberland, and the metalliferous ore mines of Cornwall, and I have no hesitation in stating that the principles now so successfully applied to coal mines could be adapted to every other description of mine."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, he was sorry to say that he was unable to give the hon. Member the information he desired. There were at present no means of ascertaining the quantity of foreign barley manufactured into malt in this country; the Government had no authority to issue the orders to the Excise officers which the hon. Gentleman asked for, and if such orders were issued, they probably would not be obeyed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that the matter alluded to by the hon. Member had been for a considerable period under the consideration of the Government. The Secretary of State for the Home Department had called the attention of the late Lord Chancellor to the matter, and in December, 1863, a Report was directed to be drawn up. In last autumn the matter was laid before him, and he directed the solicitor who transacts such business for him to make an application to Chancery. The application was made, and in December last the Master of the Rolls made a Rule directing the necessary steps to be taken.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in reply, said, the Commissioners had made a thorough investigation into the state of education in Scotland, and they would meet this month to consider the whole question. He was of course not aware what the result would be; but it was not impossible that the result would lead to a measure on the subject.
 MR. BRIGHT  said, it might be thought that he should have addressed the Question of which he had given notice to the Secretary of State for the Colonies; but as the Despatches to which it related were not in the Colonial Office, it had appeared to him that the question would be more properly put to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He would, therefore, beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman, Whether he will undertake on behalf of the Government that all Despatches and all information received at the Admiralty and the War Department connected with the recent transactions in Jamaica shall be laid before the Royal Commission now sitting in that island?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I think my hon. Friend has taken the proper course in asking the Question that stands in his name on the Notice Paper. As the Jamaica Commission has already made considerable progress in the inquiry, I think it will be better that I should state what has already been done with reference to the despatches alluded to by the hon. Member for Birmingham. Sir Henry Storks as Chief Commissioner is in command of the forces in Jamaica, and he is therefore the military superior of all the officers that have been concerned in the recent occurrences, and all despatches written by officers of the army are at his command and in his possession. With regard to the despatches written by the naval officers the case is different. The naval
 1501
 MR. BRIGHT : I beg to give notice that, unless the despatches are produced either in Jamaica or here, I shall bring forward a distinct Motion to have them laid on the table of the House.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he wished to know why the same rule was not adopted with reference to the army as in the case of the navy? The former were compelled to give up documents that may criminate them, and the latter were not.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The despatches and documents affecting officers in the navy are in the hands of the highest naval officer at Jamaica, and the documents affecting the army officers are in the hands of the chief military officer, who also is the head of the Commission.
 MR. CORRY  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, in reference to the opinion expressed in the Official Report of the investigation into the loss of the  London,
 MR. BARING  said, it would have been more convenient if the Question had been put to the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), who was a Member of the Commission. He (Mr. Baring) had, however, communicated with Dr. Angus Smith, who was annoyed at the reference to himself, and more particularly because he thought that the question should have been deferred until his Report upon disinfectants had been completed and presented
 1502 "I never had any interest, profit, or advantage from the sale or manufacture of MacDougall's powder, or of any other substance made by him, or by anybody else." "I do not recommend MacDougall's powder as the best disinfectant." "Carbolic acid is not MacDougall's powder, but a liquid not manufactured by MacDougall." "Dr. Angus Smith was the person employed by the Commissioners to report on disinfection and disinfectants. He is an eminent chemist, as every one knows, and had previously turned his attention to the subject. After a long series of experiments on a great number of substances he reported in favour of chlorine, muriatic acid, sulphurous acid, and the two tar acids (otherwise called carbolic, and cresylic acids). On a consideration of his Report the tar acids were deemed by the Commissioners most likely to be efficacious and best suited for general use. They then instructed a younger, but distinguished chemist Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., to go to a district where the disease was raging to test in several ways the efficacy of the selected substances, and to ascertain by personal experience the best and simplest modes of using them. Mr. Crookes has been for some time at work and the accounts received from him are very satisfactory. MacDougall's powder is a preparation containing carbolic acid, with sulphites of magnesia and lime. It was among the many substances tested by Dr. Angus Smith, and he recommended it as useful in some ways, making no secret of the fact that it had been first produced by himself, together with Mr. MacDougall, ten years ago."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Bill which, according to the notice I have given, I shall have the honour of asking leave to introduce on Monday next, will apply only to England and Wales, and on that day I shall, I hope, be able to inform my hon. Friend what is the course we propose to take with regard to the corresponding Questions for Scotland and Ireland.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The revision of the statistics must be interpreted as a revision of the press only. Substantially, the statistics have been very nearly completed for some short time, but in particular cases there are answers which we have been expecting. However, they may come to be so slight that it may not be worth while to incur further delay, and I think I may venture to assure the House that the tables will be circulated in full not later than Saturday morning.
 MR. J. PEEL  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether in the Returns made by the owners of stock on the 5th March it is intended to have a column for sheep under one year old?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : There is no difficulty whatever in answering the question which has been put by the right hon. Gentleman (Sir John Pakington) as to the precise manner in which this direction of the Admiralty came to be given. The letter of Messrs. Travers was addressed, not, I think, to the Secretary of the Admiralty officially, but to Mr. Romaine, in his own name. The Board was attended by Sir Frederick Grey and Admiral Eden, and the words of the Order given by the Board were, "Telegraph to Plymouth that the necessary facilities for serving the warrants may be permitted." Those were the words. With those words the Board lost sight, if I may say so, of the transaction. They believed that what they had done was their duty, and a matter of course, respecting which they really had no option. The right hon. Gentleman has expressed, and is entitled to entertain, a different opinion; he thinks a decided error was committed by the Admiralty in giving these facilities, or interfering in any manner in the affair. At the time of the discussion on Thursday evening the circumstances of the case were entirely new to me; but since that time we have had an opportunity of thinking them over; and I must say, for myself, that the opinion I then formed that no serious error had been committed by the Admiralty is now confirmed, and, indeed, has taken the form of an opinion that no error whatever was committed. I do not agree with what was stated in that debate—that it was the business of the Admiralty to desire the bearer of the Speaker's warrant to take that course which the law allowed. I will not now speak of the courtesy which prevails between public authorities. You, Sir, had, I believe, in the regular, uniform, and established course, issued these warrants with a view to giving effect to certain provisions of the law; and although it may be that the warrants do not rest upon an express statutory provision, yet at any rate they rest, I apprehend, upon Parliamentary usage and powers that are entirely unquestionable. Therefore, those warrants were entitled to be considered as legal documents. I believe, after the best inquiry we could make, there is no doubt that a personal
 1512
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE : Was the order to send the telegram that of the Board of the day or that of a special Board summoned for the purpose, and who was the secretary?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL :—I rather think not. In the first place, I think it would not be, even if a separate warrant was issued for each individual person. I understand, however, that it is not customary to issue separate warrants. On the occasion in question the names of several persons were included in a single warrant, which must be shown to the person who is served, and a copy is left with him. Under such circumstances the original warrant could not have been left at the house of the voter.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN , in putting the Question of which he had given notice, To ask the Secretary of State for War a Question relating to the wording of the Patent by virtue of which the Secretary of State for War holds his Office, said, he thought the House would agree that he could not have selected a more fitting occasion for asking the Question of which he had given notice than the present. It concerned the amount of authority which the Secretary of State for War possessed over the other branches of the military administration. The present was the first occasion on which his noble Friend (the Marquess of Hartington) had the opportunity of addressing the House as Secretary for War—a position for which there was every reason to believe he was eminently qualified, from the admirable manner in which he had performed the duties of Under Secretary. Having made these preliminary remarks, he wished to observe that he had brought forward the subject to which he was about to call attention, because in 1859 he had moved the appointment of the Committee on Military Organization, and had himself the honour of being a Member of that Committee. The Committee went very fully into the question of the authority which the Secretary for War exercised over the other branches of the Military Department, and very strong opinions were expressed, both by Members of the Committee and by gentlemen qualified by rank and position to pronounce an opinion on the subject, as to the wording of the Patent of the Secretary for War. He need hardly add that a very strong opinion had also lately prevailed out of doors, and the subject had been much discussed in the public press, that there were some restraints placed on the powers of the Secretary for War beyond those contained in his Patent. It was unnecessary, in dealing with the matter, that he should go into a detailed history of the War Department, beyond stating that as now constituted it was a comparatively new Department of State, dating as it did only from the period of the Crimean War. The old system had broken down under the pressure of that war. Up to that time the War Department and the Colonial Department had been associated together, and were presided over by the Secretary of State for War and the Colonies. When
 1515 "The administration of our army and land forces of every kind and denomination whatsoever," with the important reservation, "always so far as relates to and concerns the military discipline of our army and land forces, as likewise appointments and promotions in the same, and so far as the military command and discipline thereof shall be committed to our Commander-in-Chief of the Forces or our General commanding in Chief for the time being." 1516
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I shall have great satisfaction in giving my hon. and gallant Friend (Captain Vivian) and the House all the information which I possess on this subject. My hon. and gallant Friend has, I think, not with perfect, but perhaps with sufficient accuracy, stated what were the alterations made in the Office which in former times enrolled a army. He has also stated correctly the nature of the Patent held by the first Secretary of State for War. It is true that Sir George Cornewall Lewis, who succeeded Lord Herbert, received a Patent which did not contain any reservation whatsoever as to his responsibility or power; but Sir George Lewis himself drew up for the signature of the Queen, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee to which my hon. and gal-
 1517 "It may be questioned whether these supplementary patents are at all needed. They only indicate the pleasure of the Crown, under seal, which, notwithstanding the patent, may always be conveyed in the ordinary manner through the Secretary of State; and they do not absolve the Secretary of State from his constitutional responsibility in regard to all matters where he is the Minister by whom and through whom the commands of the Queen are received and given." "Your Committee are of opinion that this document points out the best and most satisfactory form for regulating the authority of the Secretary of State, and for defining the extent of the departmental functions of the Commander-in-Chief."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This is a question of foreign policy, and as misapprehensions might arise if I made no reply to the questions of the hon. Gentleman I must say a few words, although I will not enter into a general discussion of the two important subjects which have been combined in a single Question. I remember very well the occasion in 1858 to which the hon. Member has referred, when I had the pleasure of voting with him—a pleasure which I hope I may enjoy hereafter. I think on that occasion the head of the present Government was also in the same lobby. Nevertheless, I am not here to declare any departure from the policy which the British Government has heretofore pursued with regard to the Eastern question. With respect to the present position of the Provinces of Roumania, the hon. Member will at once perceive that circumstances are not in a state which would admit of any definite
 1520
 MR. CAVE  asked where the entrance to the passage from Bridge Street to the House would be?
 MR. CAVE  wished to know if the use of the passage would be reserved for Members only?
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that before the Speaker left the chair he wished the House to come to a distinct understanding as to the course to be pursued. The noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington) would now make his general statement with regard to the Estimates, and would conclude by proposing Vote 1. As there were many military Gentlemen who were now in the House for the first time, and who would desire to take part in the discussion, it might be well to remind them that before the first Vote was taken they would be at liberty to make any general observations upon any military matters, but that after the first Vote they must confine themselves to the subject of the particular Vote before the Committee, and
 1526
 The MARQUESS of HARTINGTON  entirely concurred, but would suggest that it would be desirable that hon. Members should confine themselves upon the first Vote as much as possible to general subjects, and should leave matters of detail to be discussed upon the particular Votes to which they related.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, I hope that in moving the Vote which it is now my duty to bring under the consideration of the Committee, it will be possible for me to trespass for a shorter time upon the patience of the House than has been necessary on some previous occasions. I entertain this hope because, in the first place, there are not many subjects on which any change has been made in the Estimates of the present year; neither have any great changes been made in the administration of the army. As the right hon. and gallant Gentleman has just observed, there are many new Members who take an interest in the administration of the army, and I have no doubt we shall have on many subsequent Votes full discussions which will render it necessary for me to enter in any great detail into this Vote. I will therefore proceed at once to the consideration of the Estimates which I have to move, and more particularly the first Vote—namely, the number of men. 1527 1528 s. 1529 1530 1531 1532 1533 1534 d. 1535 s. s. 1536 1537 1538
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : That does not include any breech-loaders. There are no breech-loaders of a larger size than 40-pounders. And now I come to the question of small arms. When I brought forward the Estimates last year I hoped that by this time we should have arrived at some definite conclusion on the subject of providing the army with breechloaders. The Committee is aware that we invited in the first instance the competition of various gunmakers in order to obtain some system upon which we might
 1539 1540 s. s. 1541 1542 1543 1544 "That the number of Land Forces, not exceeding 138,117 men (including 8,983 all ranks, to be employed with the Depots in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland of Regiments serving in Her Majesty's Indian Possessions) be maintained for the Service of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from the 1st day of April 1866, to the 31st day of March 1867, inclusive."
 GENERAL PEEL : Whatever differences of opinion there may be as to the merits of some portions of the Army Estimates, there can, I am sure, be none as to the great clearness of the speech of the noble Lord, or as to the gratification with which the Committee have learnt from his concluding sentences that neither the Commander-in-Chief in this country nor the Commander of the Forces in Ireland entertain doubt as to the loyalty of the great body of the Irish soldiers in the army. I now proceed to deal with the Estimates themselves. When the Estimates for last year were brought before us we were informed at the bottom of page 3 that there was not only a decrease in the amount of money to be voted by Parliament, but also a further decrease in the total charge on the Exchequer on account of the estimated extra receipts, &c, to be paid into the Exchequer. The noble Lord argued then, and I think justly, that this constituted the real diminution of the Estimates; but he
 1545 s. d., s. s. d., s. d. 1546 1547 1548 1549 1550 1551
 COLONEL SYKES  believed that, however opinions might vary upon the details of the Estimates, every hon. Member would give the noble Marquess credit for a desire to extend the information before the Committee—a desire which had displayed itself in the increased bulk of the Estimates from 135 pages and 5 appendices, to 161 pages and 14 appendices in the present Estimates. Still, however, without being hypercritical, he believed that there was room for further improvement. For instance, under the Manufacturing Votes the House was not informed of the quantity of material bought, the cost per cwt., the number of cannon manufactured, and the cost per cannon. The same remark applied to small arms and powder. Members would look in vain for the price of a rifle, or of a barrel of gunpowder. Our expenditure in the matter of small arms was considerably greater than that incurred on account of the French army, but then the French did not manufacture their small arms in their own establishments. The French Government have contracts with four large establishments in different parts of the country, and the contractors are required to furnish a certain fixed number of rifles, swords, and other necessary articles per annum, so that the amount required for those articles necessarily appeared in the French Estimates to be always a fixed quantity. Then, again, the French Budget supplied the information in which our own Estimates were defective—they stated the amount in kilogrammes of the quantity of metal used in the forges, the number of cannon cast, and their cost. The same information might with very little trouble be given in our Estimates. The noble Marquess had given satisfactory tables of the cost of each department and of their component parts, but though he had given the numbers, or designations separately, of those employed in the different departments, he had left hon. Members to do the addition themselves—a labour which the House ought, in his opinion, to be spared. He doubted, indeed, whether the noble Marquess himself could tell how many persons were employed in his own Department without first doing a little of this addition. The reductions of our forces in England and India were not attended by a reduction in the Estimates; indeed, the reduction of our military establishment in India entailed upon us, according to the Estimates, an increased expenditure,
 1561 1562
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  was understood to doubt that he had made such a promise.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he was glad to hear that a Royal Commission was to be appointed on recruiting. He believed men could not be got, simply because they found other positions in life in which they were better off were at their disposal. He wished to know if the proposed new branch of the service created by the appointment of comptrollers at various ports and foreign stations, which would cause a great additional expenditure, would lead to any reduction in the number of clerks at the War Office? It was generally thought that the gentlemen who held those clerkships, however efficient they might be, had very little to do, and it was considered that by decreasing their number a large additional sum of money might be applied for the benefit of the soldiers themselves. He believed some other reductions had taken place which had not been mentioned by the noble Lord. He understoood that the cadets at Woolwich had been placed on short rations. This was a matter in which the noble Marquess might not take much interest, but it was a matter of importance to the cadets themselves and their relations; and perhaps he would be kind enough to inquire into it. In the latter part of his speech the noble Marquess made—no doubt unintentionally—a very serious attack on officers commanding in Ireland. He said they were only now giving Sir
 1566
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that it was hopeless for the House to expect a real army reform until they grappled with the great question of army administration. At present their army showed far too much
 1570
 COLONEL HOGG  said, he desired to make a remark in reference to that branch of the profession to which he himself belonged. The noble Marquess had said a great deal about the weapons supplied to several arms of the service, but he had said nothing about the cavalry carbines. Now, the fact was, that all the cavalry regiments had been armed with breech-loading carbines, or some other arm of precision, with a single exception—namely, the Scots Greys. The men of this famous regiment were still supplied only with the old carbine. Prizes were offered for cavalry marksmen, and as the old carbine did not carry the necessary distance the men of the Scots Greys were entirely excluded from competing for the prizes. Military men know well the great advantage which a cavalry soldier derived from a breech-loading rifle or musket, and he hoped the noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington) would direct his early attention to the matter.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, it was a very serious matter that the army should have reduced itself 10,000 men in two years: he was therefore glad that the noble Marquess had changed his mind with reference to the recruiting question, and that a Royal Commission was about to inquire into this most important matter. The other night, in replying to the speech of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White), the Chancellor of the Exchequer took credit for the economical spirit of the Government in reducing the army by 4,000 or 5,000 men, and said that was a diminution not to be despised. Now no reduction of expenditure was to be despised, if made  bonâ fide,
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON :—So many questions and so many details have been touched upon in this debate that I am afraid I shall be able to answer only a few of the inquiries that have been made, deferring my explanations, if hon. Members think further answers necessary, until the particular Votes more immediately concerned come under separate discussion. The right hon. and gallant Gentleman opposite (General Peel) and some other Members have spoken of the scheme of unattached promotions for officers as though it were no boon at all to the army, and it has even been implied that officers would be compelled to accept these unattached promotions and be put upon half-pay. I would remind the Committee that it will be perfectly optional for the officers to accept them or not, and that if the offer of them should induce some officers of long standing to retire from the service, of course the officers of the army at large will
 1576 1577 1578 1579
 GENERAL PEEL  asked, whether the scheme by which officers would be put on half-pay, and at the same time promoted in rank would be confined to forty-one regiments, or spread over the whole array?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON :
 1580
 LORD BURGHLEY  suggested that a great saving might be effected by employing the Militia staff throughout the country as a recruiting staff. At present they were doing nothing, being only employed for one month in the year in training.
 COLONEL SYKES  inquired what was the number of officers at present on the unattached list, and what addition would be made to it?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I cannot at this moment answer the Question of the hon. and gallant Colonel.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : As I forgot to refer to the Question of the War
 1581
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  expressed a hope that the hon. and gallant Gentleman would not press his Amendment, but would allow the Vote to be taken. As it was the intention of the hon. and gal-
 1583
 MR O'RElLLY  said, he did not see why that discussion should be raised on the present Vote more than upon any other Vote. He trusted, however, that the noble Marquess would not proceed with the Vote for Pay and Allowances that evening, as it involved numerous matters of detail.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was quite evident the subject could not be disposed of in a short conversation. As it was about to be brought forward in the form of a substantive Motion he saw no reason for postponing the present Vote.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, as the proposed reduction had reference to an item of expenditure which was incurred for the purpose of teaching the soldier the use of the rifle, he supposed the hon. and gallant Gentleman must be of opinion that such instruction was of no practical utility. He, however, entertained a contrary opinion, and could not help thinking that if a soldier had an accurate and useful weapon placed in his hands, it was of great importance he should be able to use it with efficiency. He admitted that it might, at some future time, happen that an officer might be qualified for the performance of the duties of musketry instructor without going through a school of musketry, but it would be, he contended, most unwise, by reducing the Vote, to place it out of the power of all officers to qualify themselves in that respect.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  supported the Amendment, observing that he presumed the object his hon. and gallant Friend who proposed it had in view was to take the sense of the Committee on the system of instruction.
 LORD ELOHO  was bound to say that he had heard complaints made by friends of his in the army as to the strictness of the rules, and the extent to which the system of instruction was carried. He therefore thought it would be well to postpone the Vote, though he was strongly of opinion that instruction in musketry was of the highest importance to the Army and the Volunteers.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  observed, that the Vote could not be postponed. If they did not dispose of it now they must report Progress. He never had said anything to the effect that the military authorities had not an opinion in this matter; but after the observations made by so many gallant Officers in the course of this discussion, he thought it necessary that there should be some inquiry in respect of the system of instruction. There might be question as to the length of the course, or as to other details; but he asked whether the Army, the Militia, and the Volunteers were not satisfied with the instruction as a whole? If the Amendment was carried it would prevent any instruction being given them next year. He was quite ready to promise that, in connection with the Commander-in-Chief, he would institute an inquiry; and he
 1586
 MR. KINGLAKE  thought the discussion had taken a turn which made a postponement of the Vote desirable. The hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Berkshire had suggested a question of the deepest importance. The hon. and gallant Member thought that our system of teaching the use of arms of precision was being carried to an extent which injured the efficiency of the service. If Government held a decided opinion of their own, hon. Members might go at once to a
 1585
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would be impossible to suspend the Vote till an inquiry had been instituted into the subject.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said,
 1587
 MR. COWPER  said, that the passage would remain in the hands of the Government; but it would be premature to say whether or not the public would, under certain restrictions, be allowed to use it.
 MR. COWPER  said, that he intended to propose in the Estimates of this year a Vote for an arcade from the Members' private entrance to the Clock Tower; and it would greatly improve the architecture of the lower block of building, which was rather bare at present.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the entrance to the House would be in New Palace Yard.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was glad the subject had been brought on by the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Powell), who had shown a sound and artistic taste in his suggestions for the improvement of the metropolis. In reply to his first Question he begged to state that no alteration had been made in the designs for which money was voted last Session, although a good deal of time had been given to considering how the details of the plan should be carried out. The hon. Member had alluded to the fact that Sir Charles Barry had designed that New Palace Yard should form an inner quadrangle; and he was glad to find the hon. Gentleman was of opinion that the Government had exercised a wise discretion in not building upon the south side of Bridge Street and in leaving the apace open in order that there might be a
 1524 1525
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, I believe the telegram was sent by order of the Board of the day. There were only two members of the Admiralty present, and the secretary attending upon them, and who wrote the order was Mr. Romaine.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Yes.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, I am anxious to say a very few words with reference to an unintentional misstatement which I made on Thursday night, and in which I conveyed to the House that the Duke of Somerset had ordered a certain telegram to be sent to Devonport, giving the necessary facilities for serving your warrant, Sir, upon the workmen in the dockyard. I may state that my knowledge of any acts on the part of the Admiralty was not obtained until Wednesday last at the Board. On that day I was under the full impression that the Duke of Somerset had himself ordered the telegram to be sent. Sir, that was an entirely erroneous view of mine. The Duke of Somerset approved the Order having been issued, and in which I also concurred and do fully concur; but the fact is that the Duke himself was not made aware of that Order having been issued until many days after it had been issued. That Order was issued by the Board of Admiralty, as they considered it to be a mere matter of routine in the dockyard, and they did not bring it to the notice of the Duke until Wednesday morning last, some little time before I was made aware of it, when I came into the Board-room, and the conversation turned on it. I can only express my sincere regret that I was under this erroneous impression as to the actual responsibility of the Duke of Somerset in sending this telegram.
 LORD HOTHAM : The noble Marquess seemed to dispute the correctness of what he had stated. Now, in order to keep
 1564
 LORD HOTHAM  said, there were two more points to which he desired to draw the attention of the noble Marquess. The one was the proposal of the noble Marquess in reference to recruiting, in which he (Lord Hotham) naturally took a great interest, because he had had the honour of being President of the last Royal Commission that had inquired into the subject. The
 1563
 MAJOR DICKSON  said, that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Poole (Mr. H. Seymour) had expressed a hope that the Royal Commission would not be composed of old General Officers. Now he (Major Dickson) thought the Commission would be hailed with satisfaction by the army, and for his part he trusted that the members placed upon it would have a more perfect knowledge of military matters than the hon. Gentleman had displayed. It was to be hoped that the proposed Royal Commission would not confine its labours entirely to the question of recruiting, but would also direct its attention to subjects on which the efficiency and discipline of the army depended. It was said that during the last fifteen years or so the army had somewhat degenerated, and certainly the troops now were not equal to those that fought in India and the Crimea; but this was not owing to any degeneracy on the part of the race to which it belonged, but because we had neither the same class of officers nor the same class of men in the service which we had not very long ago. That was owing to the absurdly strict examination through which officers had to pass, and to the insufficiency of the inducements held out to men to enlist, instead of entering into other employments. Officers should, no doubt, be properly educated, but many of the subjects in which they were now examined were of no earthly used to them. The system of examination had been adopted by stress of public opinion, and by stress of public opinion it was still maintained. The highest military authorities of this country were, he believed, opposed to that system, and those authorities ought to be firm and stable-minded, not men who were changeable like the vane upon a steeple that was moved about by every gust. If the commanding officer of a regiment were consulted upon the matter, he would say, "Give me the young men of energy and determination—the young men who can ride across country, for the army, rather than the senior wrangler of Oxford or Cambridge, who would do better at the bar or in the Church." If they wanted dashing soldiers they must have dashing officers and to secure men of the proper stamp for the ranks they must improve the pay and position of the soldier. Our whole system of recruiting was wrong and required remodelling. A regiment fell below its establishment, and recruiting parties were sent out to fill up the gaps in
 1575
 MR. O'REILLY  said, there were two points requiring attention—one concerned the mode of instruction carried out at Hythe, and the other affected the principle of having a central school for instruction in musketry. He had spoken to many French and Prussian officers, who had expressed their admiration of the system of having a great central school for teaching musketry. The opinion had been expressed to him also by French Generals, that their army, as a whole, was by no means so well trained in musketry as the British army, which, therefore, showed greater results for its teaching than the French army could produce. From the introduction of a new system of instruction a division of interests between regimental authorises had arisen; but when those: systems had become ingrained in the army he had no doubt that things would work more harmoniously. He put it to the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had moved the Amendment, whether the question of the establishment of a school for musketry for the army could be solved by the reduction of £10,000 on this Vote? If an expression of opinion at all, it would be against the principle of central schools, the only one that could be adopted by that Committee.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he could not congratulate the noble Marquess on the Estimates he had brought forward this year, because they exhibited no approach to that economy to which the House had for some years looked forward. Some years ago the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken (General Peel) stated that £100 per man was the standard of expenditure for the army, and had pointed out how little change had occurred in that expenditure, no matter what change was made in the Estimates. He (Mr. O'Reilly) was prepared to show that there was a considerable increase in the absolute expenditure. After the drawbacks were taken away, he found that the expenditure had increased £5 per head for every effective man. There was no reduction except in the men, and they had reduced themselves. Taking £100 per man as the cost, there ought to be a reduction of £400,000 consequent on the reduced number of 4,000 men; but although the nominal reduction was £253,000, the actual reduction was only £6,000. While the expenditure went on increasing the soldier was no better off, and the noble Marquess had pointed out that a serious question was beginning to arise as to whether it would not be necessary to pay our soldiers better; but this would certainly not be afforded by
 1552 1553 1554
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Will the Return state the number of hours occupied in the examination of the workmen?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he could not resist the appeal made to him by his right hon. Friend, considering the position he held in that House, and considering that he was the only Minister of the Crown who had proposed from the Treasury Bench that particular compromise which he (Mr. Hope) had himself recommended. He would, therefore, withdraw his Motion, and allow a division to be taken on the main Question. If the Bill of the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds (Mr. Hardcastle) came to a second reading, he would reserve his Resolution until the Motion for going into Committee, and if the Bill were lost he would then bring forward his Resolution as a substantive measure.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that if the hon. Baronet referred to a clause in the Union Chargeability Act, requiring the Poor Law Board to frame orders to render the provisions of that Act applicable to the proceedings of guardians and the accounts of overseers, he had to say that such orders had been already drawn up and issued throughout the country. With reference to his inquiry respecting the relief to aged persons who were in the receipt of pensions from former employers, that matter was in no way affected by the Act in question, and the relief which such persons received was regulated by an order of much prior date.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , in rising to ask whether the Danubian Provinces of Roumania would be allowed to arrange their own institutions without interference from either the protecting Powers or the Porte, said, that those Provinces had, by the simple expedient of electing the same Prince, defeated the arrangement to keep them separate. Since the election of Prince Couza the Provinces had gone through the various difficulties attending young and rising States, and at length, a revolution taking place, Prince Couza was obliged to resign. It was to be presumed that the parties who were originally opposed to the union of the Provinces remained of the same opinion still, and that the Turkish Government would willingly upset any arrangement by which they might be united. Now the Provisional Government had issued an address to the Diet, and one of the arrangements come to was the election of a foreign Prince, who, however, declined to place himself in the difficult position to which he had been chosen; but the desire of the people to maintain the choice of a foreign Prince remained the same. The presidency of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer over the councils of this country inaugurated a new policy; and it was to be hoped that in respect to this matter what in diplomatic language was called the necessity of protecting the integrity of Turkey would not be urged, because as regards those Provinces the sovereignty of Turkey was a mere name and myth. He trusted that, considering the declarations of the right hon. Gentleman in 1858, the Government would see their way to allow the people of the Danubian Provinces of Roumania to make their own arrangements. He was also anxious that the Government should consider the state of the neighbouring Province of Servia. There hostile fortresses, dominating over the country, were preserved, and three years ago there occurred a bombardment which was condemned and stigmatized by the united voice of Europe. Such a circumstance was likely to occur again at any time while a suzerain Power like Turkey kept possession of these fortresses without having any hold on the country. If Servia were placed in the same position as the Danubian Provinces, where the fortresses had been demolished, a
 1519
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he can furnish the House with the quantity of Foreign Barley which is manufactured into Malt in this country; and, if not, whether he will instruct the Officers of Excise to furnish such Returns for the months of March and April in the present year?
 MR. AKROYD  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the case of a girl, twelve years of age, crushed to death in a colliery
 1498
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Bill for amending the Representation of the People, which he has given notice to ask leave to introduce on the 12th of March, applies to the whole United Kingdom; and, if not, on what day will the Bill to amend the Representation of the People in Scotland be brought under the attention of the House?
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir—I also have been asked to give an explanation respecting this affair, and the most serious and important part of it, on behalf of a gentleman whose name has been mixed up in these proceedings—Mr. Phinn. It is known to the House that Mr. Phinn was an unsuccessful candidate for Devonport at the last election. It is known also, that a petition has been presented against the return, praying for the seat for Mr. Phinn. It was therefore, and perhaps naturally, assumed that it was in Mr. Phinn's interest that the application was made to the Admiralty to give facilities for serving the
 1506 "As you had not the opportunity of making the statement to the House on my behalf which you kindly promised to do on Friday evening, will you allow me now to state, as compendiously as possible, that though I approved of the petition being presented with a view to a full investigation of the proceedings at the recent election, I declined to take any part in it, and, as far as I could, refused to concur in the prayer for the seat urged on my behalf by the electors? In proof of this, I refer you to the letter of Mr. Travers Smith, and my answer to the letter of Mr. Tripe, one of the petitioners, and the chairman of the Liberal Committee, which I now enclose. I have never interfered, directly or indirectly, with the petition or with the conduct of it since its presentation. I knew nothing of the issue of the warrants, nor of the application to the Admiralty, nor was the matter in any way referred to me by the Board, or to anyone acting with or for me. The first intimation I got of the matter was a notice of Motion given by Sir John Pakington on Tuesday, the 27th of February, which I read in the second edition of  The Sun "43, Parliament St., Westminster, S.W., Feb. 6. "My dear Sir,—I am advised that we should do far better to ask for both seats by the petition, whatever we do before Committee. It is a petition by electors only, so that the unsuccessful candidates are in no way responsible for its contents. Have I your permission?—Believe me, very faithfully yours, J. TRAVERS SMITH. "Thomas Phinn, Esq., Q.C., 50, Pall Mall." 50, Pall Mall, Feb. 6. "My dear Sir,—I have no power over the electors. They may pray for anything they please,
 1507 "THOMAS PHINN. "It must be distinctly understood that I have nothing to do with the petition except that if I am wanted as a witness I shall be ready." "The Elms, Devonport, March 3. "My dear Sir,—I learnt some time since incidentally that you were to be asked to allow your name to be in some way joined in the petition, but I never heard the result. Indeed, I was not curious in the matter, as I knew beforehand, from conversations with you, that you would refuse to be involved in the trouble and expense of contesting the seat. I also understood that your refusal would not affect the petition coming from us as electors, and which was for both seats. Your decision was regretted by us as severing the connection between us, but, as it appeared to me, did not affect our conduct. If this note is of any use as showing that your friends here fully understood that you were no party to the petition, you may use it in any way you please.—Believe me, my dear Sir, yours very truly, "L. P. NATHAN, Chairman of the Liberal "Committee at the last election."
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that he objected to the fortifications at Portsmouth and other ports in England, because he was of opinion that they were constructed on a faulty plan. Many very eminent Engineers were of the same opinion. He thought a great deal of public money had been thrown away upon these fortifications. That, however, was no reason why he should not be in favour of fortifications of another class. As to fortifying the Irish coast, he might remark that he never thought of fortifying the whole line of coast—no one but a civilian would have imagined that he did. All he had said was that certain points, Bantry Bay for instance, where an enemy could easily land troops and it would be difficult to dislodge them, ought to be fortified, and he thought the noble Lord had no right to find fault with him for that.
 GENERL DUNNE  said, it gave him sincere pleasure to hear that the Government intended at last to take up the question of recruiting. During the last seven or ten years every military man in the House had impressed upon the Government the necessity of altering the period of service in the army, and making it twelve years in the infantry as well as in the cavalry. We had now in the colonies and in England altogether from 85,000 to 86,000 men, of whom 6,140 at this moment be-
 1568 1569
 GENERAL DUNNE  asked how there was to be uniformity without a central school, and whether it was intended to abolish entirely the central school or merely to remove the absurdities connected with the system?
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  hoped that the Government would not proceed at that late hour. He hoped the Government would now consent to report Progress; and he moved accordingly.
 MR. HUNT : I beg also to ask a Question with respect to the revision of the Electoral Statistics to which the right hon. Gentleman referred on a previous evening.
 1504
 MR. HUNT : The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer seems to think that when the Speaker's warrant has to be served in a dockyard the proper course is to get the assistance of the dockyard authorities to serve during the hours of work, and in the rooms. I do not know whether the right hon. Gentleman is acquainted with the dockyards; but those who are familiar with them know that the gates of the yards are kept close during certain hours. At the usual time for the workmen to leave they are opened; and the proper way to serve the warrants would have been for the person in charge of them, assisted by parties to identify the men, to have stationed themselves outside or just within the gates as the men were leaving, and to have handed them the warrants. Had that course been adopted, there would have been no ground of complaint on the part of anybody; and thus the work of serving the warrants on the persons engaged in the dockyards would have been far easier than that involved in serving them upon any other class of people required to give evidence before the Committee.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  thought the public would be greatly disappointed at there being no reduction in these Estimates. He believed that reductions might have been made. All it wanted was a strong controlling hand for the central administration, and such a hand he trusted would be found in the noble Marquess. The noble Marquess had a great task before him, but it was one which he (Mr. H. Seymour) believed could be accomplished; and any energy and determination which he might show would be cheerfully seconded by that House, and approved by the country at large. The Estimates were calculated with the view of putting a certain number of men into the field. The whole expense of that calculation gave the cost of each man at about £100. But the amount of pay that went to the soldier was only about 40 per cent, and out of 60 per cent for administration there might surely be some reduction made. He was glad there was to be a Conmission on the subject of recruiting, and he trusted it would take into consideration all the
 1572
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he found only two sums mentioned in the Estimates for
 1571
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he desired again to call the Committee's attention to what he felt was the fault of the ten years' system. The noble Lord had made the following statement:—
 "The Limited Enlistment Act is working exactly as we had reason to suppose it would. The proportion of men who re-enlist after taking their discharge remains exactly the same as it was at first, about 60 per cent." s. d., s. d 1559 d. s. d. The Times "As the matter now stands, the highly trained, experienced, and disciplined soldier, the man who has served his country and has proved the strength of his constitution by service in various climates, is no better paid by his employer than the raw un-trained recruit enlisted but yesterday. In the army the old soldier feels that the manufactured article does not command a better price than the raw material. Can we wonder at a ten years' man declining to re-engage in a profession where his technical knowledge, his disciplined character, his proved courage, and his tested constitution are absolutely ignored as elements of value when competing with an untutored 'chaw bacon' just trapped in the country, or at his seeking a livelihood in some line of life where his value is better appreciated? In any profession a healthy man of twenty-eight years can command a higher wage than a lad of eighteen. The truth is, that our system of pay is as crude, as clumsy, as antiquated, and as unfitted for the present age as many other parts of our military system, and requires a complete and liberal revision." "The efficiency of the army is at stake, and in any change which we desire to make we ought to be careful to have with us the assent of the great body of the profession; and I can assure the House there is no member of the profession who approves of the present system."
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he did not suppose a Committee would be appointed to inquire into the system of musketry instruction, but to consider how far the noble Lord could meet the suggestions that had been made. He begged leave to move that the Committee should report Progress.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he had no hesitation in stating that he should hereafter make a substantive Motion for a Committee of Inquiry into the recent mortality at Hong Kong. He thought it one of the most deplorable cases that had occurred since the Crimean War. Great blame attached to some quarter, and in the interests of the army the matter ought to be thoroughly and minutely sifted.
 COLONEL NORTH  hoped that, notwithstanding the appeal of the hon. and gallant General, a debate would not ensue on the subject to which his Questions related. It was much too serious a matter to be dealt with in the shape of mere Question and Answer. He had given notice of a Motion on the subject, and as the papers with respect to it would be in the hands of Members to-morrow, it was desirable that no further remarks should be made upon it until it was brought regularly with full information before the House.
 MR. ROEBUCK : I ask for information this Question of the Attorney General, If the Speaker's warrant had been left at the residence of the persons summoned, would it not have been a sufficient service in law?
 MR. LOWE : Before my right hon. Friend rises to reply I wish to present an humble petition, to which I beg his favourable consideration. The Members of this House are required to come here on the public business. Some of us are not very young nor so active as we have been, some of us are short-sighted, and none wish to come to a sudden end under the wheels of cabs or omnibuses. Well, I do not think there is a more dangerous crossing in all London than that which leads to the Houses of Parliament; and I think, in addition to the labour of working day after day and night after night, it is rather hard that we should two or three times a day have to run the risk of our lives. The Lord Advocate, for instance, sustained a serious injury two years ago in his endeavours to avoid being run over by a Hansom cab. We often come here in a hurry when we are "whipped up" for a division or under other pressing circumstances. This being the point
 1523
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent, Whether he intends to go on with his proposed Resolution as an Amendment to the Second Reading of the Church Rates Abolition Bill, or whether he will consent to postpone the consideration of that Resolution until the House has determined the main Question raised by the Bill—namely, the absolute and unconditional abolition of Church Rates, without any substitute being provided for them?
 MR. ACLAND  was of opinion that too much time was spent in the instruction. Besides, on scientific subjects lectures ought not to be given which excited the ridicule of those who had even an elementary knowledge of natural philosophy. But he thought musketry instruction of great value to the Army and the Volunteers, and was not prepared to join in knocking £10,000 off the Vote without knowing what the effect of such a step would be. He hoped the Government would take the subject into their attentive consideration.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, lambs must be entered in the column under the heading of "sheep under one year old." It was intended that the schedules should be issued earlier, and he thought that if similar Returns should again be required the schedules should not be issued during the lambing season.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, my attention has been called to the case of the  Scotland,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : In reply, Sir, to the Questions of my hon. Friend, I have to say that those vessels did come ashore, but as several of them were got off without damage, no report was, in those cases, made to the Board of Trade. The attention of the Board of Trade has been called to a rumour that false lights have been exhibited near Whitburn; but an inquiry having taken place, I do not believe there is any truth in that rumour, nor do I think any further investigation to be necessary. With regard to the circumstances under which those vessels came ashore, as stated in the reports from the spot, it is not intended to have any inquiry; but the question of putting a light on Souter Point, on that coast, is under consideration.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, the point referred to by my right hon. Friend has been frequently considered, but the difficulty would be insuperable of adopting any general rule applicable to all ships by which Government officers should determine the deep-load line of a vessel, or how deep she may lawfully be immersed in the water. The Government have, therefore, no intention of bringing in a Bill requiring the deep load-line to be permanently marked on all vessels carrying passengers and merchandize.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether his attention has been called to the case of certain Trustees for distributing charitable funds for the relief of Poor Debtors, who are now precluded from disposing of such funds in consequence of the abolition of the Queen's Bench Prison; and, whether he is prepared to sanction any fresh scheme for the application of such funds?
 MR. GRAHAM  said, he would beg to ask, Whether the attention of Government has been called to the evidence in the trial before Mr. Justice Bramwell of certain sailors of the crew of the ship  Scotland
 MR. GREGORY  asked if the right hon. Gentleman had considered the propriety of giving hon. Members an access to the subway without exposing them to the inclemency of the weather?
 MR. W. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware that the Cattle Plague Royal Commission, in their endeavours to discover the best disinfectant, referred the question only to a single individual—namely, Dr. Angus Smith, who reported in favour of Carbolic Acid, or Macdougall's Powder, of which preparation he himself is co-partner with Mr. Macdougall, and which is generally believed by chemists to be no disinfectant at all.
 MR. TITE  asked the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) whether the able chemist appointed by the Committee had been able to suggest any expedient by which the stone used in the erection of the House of Commons could be preserved from decay? When the matter was inquired into by a Committee some years ago, a hope was expressed that the decay would, after a time, cease of itself. However, these hopes proved fallacious, and the stone, which had during the long summer ceased to decay, had, since the commencement of the recent wet weather, again began to decay. He did not think the Government were to blame for the decay of the stone; the decay was caused not by carelessness in selection, but by the London atmosphere.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether the Royal Commissioners on Education in Scotland may soon be expected to Report; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government proposes to introduce a Bill this Session, founded upon the recommendations of their Report?
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he desired to call attention to the very large expense connected with the musketry instruction as at present carried on throughout the army, and especially to that portion of it which related to the maintenance of the schools of musketry at Hythe and Fleetwood. No doubt very effective service had been rendered by those establishments to the army. If they did not originate, they had organized and distributed through the army a system of musketry instruction which we were totally without before. But having done so, and the system being thoroughly understood from one end of the army to the other, there was no reason why these very expensive estab-
 1555 "Question: How many Schools of Musketry have you? Where are they; and how are they composed?—Answer: There is only one School of Musketry ( perfections chef de bataillon; The Manual of Musketry for the British Army, "This exercise is to accustom the recruit to the report caused by the explosion of the percussion cap, and to give him steadiness. The instructor is to watch the recruit minutely in this practice, which must be continued until the tendency to wink is overcome, and he becomes so perfectly indifferent to the report that the composure of the countenance is not in the slightest degree disturbed. Should the instructor meet with difficulty in teaching any of the recruits to aim correctly, or should he find any of them snapping in such a manner as to destroy their aim, he is to cause them to snap caps—aiming at the wick of a lighted candle, placed about a yard from the muzzle of the rifle, when if the aim is properly directed the candle will be blown out." 1556 "The new arms of precision are only dangerous from a distance; they do not prevent the bayonet from being, as heretofore, the most terrible weapon of the French infantry." Tactics of the Three Armies, "One cause of the indecisiveness of the results obtained in many of the battles of the late war, as compared with the great loss of life on both sides, has been that the opposing battalions were too often kept firing at each other at a distance, both sustaining nearly equal loss, until the ranks were so weakened as to disable either party from making a vigorous and decisive charge. When made
 1557 The Times, "The experience of the American War is certainly in favour of those who maintain that fine and long shooting cannot and does not decide a serious affair in any campaign, and, though it is highly desirable that soldiers should shoot well, it is of far more consequence that they should be steady, courageous, and well-disciplined." "There seems to have been little method in bringing the several divisions into action, or with supplying them with ammunition on the field; each successive line moved to the front, fired as long as their ammunition lasted, and then gave way to a fresh line, except when pressed by the enemy, when, as was the case with Hooker's corps it broke and fled." "A well-organized method of supplying troops with ammunition in the field, and of replenishing its increased expenditure, is another difficulty that requires preparation to meet, and which does not seem to have been sufficiently considered by the Northern Generals." Army and Navg Gazette 1558
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, that for the reasons he had already stated he
 1584
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he had most distinctly and emphatically said that so convinced was he of the necessity of the soldier being trained to use his weapon, that he was only anxious to have instruction for that object carried out in the most simple and practical manner, and in a manner which would secure the sympathy of the officers of the army. But he thought when the Committee saw in this Vote a sum three times as large as that required to teach the French army, which was four times as large as ours, he could not be accused of cheese-paring economy because he objected to the Vote.
 MR. WATKIN  said, he would not have troubled the Committee with any observation but for a somewhat remarkable omission in the speech of the noble Marquess. As he was the first civilian who had spoken, he might say that the civilians of this country did not look so much to the amount of money required by these Estimates, but they endeavoured to take a sort of guage of the amount of efficiency they got for the money. They did not mind an increase in the Estimates if it could be clearly seen that the administration of military affairs were in thoroughly able hands, and if increased efficiency followed increased outlay. The question of small arms had been touched upon by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon(General Peel), and the noble Marquess had referred to the inventions of Snider and others, but not a single word had been said with reference to the great field for military experience afforded by America during the last few years of the Civil War in that country, and no reference had been made to the number of extraordinary and valuable weapons which had been invented and brought into use in that contest. Knowing that many of Her Majesty's officers had witnessed those operations in America, he thought that the House might have been favoured with the result of their experience in reference to those particular inventions to which he referred. One result of the American War was that the soldiers of the country were armed with a repeating rifle which made one man as valuable as from four to six men armed with the best weapon in use in this country. The life of the British soldier was valuable, and he deserved to be armed with the best weapon which modern invention could produce. The American practice in time of peace he understood was founded upon three very important principles. In the first place, they had a small but efficient standing army; secondly, they had an enormous militia population which could resolve itself into the army whenever it was required; and, lastly, they were armed with the most efficient weapons which could be procured. Every three or four years the autho-
 1567
 MR. POWELL  rose, pursuant to notice, to call attention to the building operations in progress at New Palace Yard, and to ask the First Commissioner as to the nature of the works and the quality of the stone employed. The condition of the building in which the business of legislation was conducted must be a subject of great interest to the country. For several years past the progress of the works connected with the Palace of Westminster had been almost wholly suspended. The houses along the south side of Bridge
 1521 "The sum proposed for completing the Clock Tower and New Palace Yard is intended to be spent in this way—the side of the Clock Tower which was now imperfect, would have the same front as the sides towards Westminster Bridge and towards the river. It was proposed to take advantage of the higher level of the ground in Bridge Street, to make a subway by which Members proceeding from Palace Yard might escape the danger of the present passage, and reach the other side without crossing the road."—[3  Hansard, The Globe "New works are now in hand for the erection of an arcade in Palace Yard in harmony with the Parliament House, from the designs of Mr. E. M. Barry." "This will extend along the east side of Palace Yard, forming a new base to the building, and rising somewhat higher than the level of the roadway near Westminster Bridge. The centre of this arcade is open as a porch, having a statue on each side, to that portion of the palace; at the same time the arcade will supply a covered way for those who approach the new railway station which is to be erected close to the north-west angle of the bridge. A subway beneath the roadway will render communication easy and safe. This will be commenced as soon as the railway works will admit. It is also proposed to finish the west side of the Clock Tower by panelling; the appearance of the new work will be made to
 1522
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that his attention had been called to the matter by a private communication from Lord Shaftesbury. He had received a Report of the case from Mr. Higson, the Government Inspector. In his opinion the girl had not been employed contrary to the provisions of the Statute; but the employment of a child of such tender years was very reprehensible. If the hon. Member would move for it, Mr. Higson's Report should be laid on the table.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, that the ten years' system did a great deal of mischief to regiments in India. One grievance it entailed upon commanding officers in that country was that when they lost their non-commissioned officers at the expiration of ten years' service, the non-commissioned officers appointed in their room received no additional pay until the Return was sent from this country that their predecessors had been discharged. He trusted that the noble Lord would attend to this subject, and would enable commanding officers to give pay at once to the non-commissioned officers they appointed. It was unjust that one man should receive the pay and another do the work. He wished also to call the attention of the noble Marquess to what was felt to be a great grievance by officers who were serving in India. After a certain period of service an officer got six months' leave of absence, but he was not allowed to come to this country without losing his Indian allowances. He generally passed his time up in Cashmere or Thibet, or in some distant part of Asia, and during that time he received his allowances; but if he came to Europe he lost them, and that was felt to be a great hardship and injustice. It could be of no consequence to the authorities whether an officer spent his spare time in Asia or in Europe, while it might be of the greatest advantage to him so far as his health was concerned—indeed, be even the means of saving his life—if he were allowed to spend three or four months out of the six in returning to see his friends in this country. He con-
 1565
 SIR HEDWORTH WILLIAMSON  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he is aware that seventeen vessels came ashore near Whitburn, on the coast of Durham, between the months of September and January last; if his attention has been called to a rumour of false lights having been exhibited near Whitburn; and if there be any truth in that rumour; if so, whether the Board of Trade intend ordering any further investigation than that already instituted by the Trinity House; and if there be no truth in the rumour, whether the Board of Trade intend inquiring into the circumstances under which those vessels came ashore, more especially as regards those that did so in calm weather and with an off-shore wind?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  suggested that to the circumstance of the number of the Native Indian troops being limited to 178 was owing in great measure to the lamentable mortality which had taken place at Hong Kong. Previous to last year one battalion in Hong Kong was exchanged, and it was generally believed that it had been removed in order to save the expense caused by the maintenance of troops placed side by side with the battalion in the Indian establishment. He believed that on every ground of justice it might be maintained that British troops quartered in Hong Kong should be kept on the Indian establishment. The vicissitudes of the climate of Hong Kong and the inroads which it made on the European constitution being taken into account, it was, he
 1582
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  hoped there would be no opposition to the Committee's reporting Progress. He hoped the matter would be fairly considered, but after the Vote had passed the Committee it would be too late for any further discussion of the matter.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought that some mention ought to be made before it passed of the melancholy circumstance to which he had called attention; but he agreed with the hon. and gallant Member that it was not necessary to postpone the Vote in order to bring the Question before the House.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I think the House will permit me to say what is the impression I entertain, both with regard to the explanations which we have
 1508 1509 1510 1511
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK : Would the plans of the buildings now proposed for New Palace Yard be laid on the table of the House?
 SIR PERCY BURRELL  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, When it is his intention to bring in a measure consequent on the passing of the
 1500
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT : Are there any of the 200-pounder Armstrong guns?
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, he was glad that a Royal Commission was about to be appointed to inquire into the system of recruiting. He had no desire to see it composed exclusively of military officers. The system of corporal punishment to which the hon. Member who had just sat down (Mr. H. Seymour) had alluded, did not exist nominally in foreign armies, yet it was practically in force. Moreover, capital punishments were much more common, and he should be sorry to see an English soldier shot for striking his officer. He regretted to observe that the numbers of the regiments were still weaker than they were when he last drew the attention of the House to this
 1573
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  concurred in that view, and moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, the rate of every officer's pay was regulated by Royal warrant. A practice had grown up of offering an income less than that fixed by the Royal warrant, and this he thought highly objectionable. The late Lord Ma-
 1588
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, the question was, whether or not this system was carried on in the most efficient manner, and most conducive to the interest of the service, and that question ought to meet with the immediate consideration of the noble Lord the Secretary for War. Instead of one central school he thought it would be better to have two schools—one at Hythe and the other at Fleetwood. He believed instruction would then be given at less expense. The army ought to be thankful to the hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Berkshire for the attempt he had made to urge the Government to re-consider this subject.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  thought the case was one of so awful a character that the Vote ought to be postponed in order that the discussion might be taken upon it.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that after the declaration of the hon. and gallant Member of his intention to submit a substantive Motion on the subject, he should not oppose the present Vote.
 EARL GROSVENOR,  in moving that the Bill be read a second time that day six months, said, he was neither directly or indirectly connected with any metropolitan railway, nor did he mean to discuss on the present occasion the question whether the Bill was or was not necessary for the public convenience. The point he wished to raise was, whether a scheme so gigantic, and affecting the interests of so many
 1593
 LORD STANLEY  said, it was quite true that he had acted as Chairman of the Committee to which his noble Friend alluded. He therefore had naturally looked into the question at issue, although he had no interest whatsoever in the proposed
 1594 1595
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said: Sir, I should not have ventured to intrude on the House upon this subject, but for this special reason, that I was on the Committee of which Mr. Sotheron Estcourt was Chairman in 1860, and, in his absence from the House, I feel bound to say a word or two which I do with great reluctance, because my leanings are decidedly in this direction —that, if it be possible, there should be some mode of dealing with these gas companies. I do not think that they treat the public fairly. If there is one thing more important even than to provide against
 1604 Cries of and primâ, facie "The limits of each of the said companies shall be the respective districts supplied with gas by such companies as the same are defined upon four duplicate maps signed by the right hon. Thomas Henry Sutton Sotheron Estcourt, and which maps have been severally deposited with the respective Clerks of the Peace for the counties of Middlesex, London, Surrey and Kent." "Provided that at the expiration of three years next after the passing of this Act, and of every three years thereafter, Her Majesty's Principal
 1605
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL,  in reply, said, that special jury lists were made out by the parish officers, whose duty it was to place upon the list the name of every householder qualified to serve. Special sessions were held for the purpose of revising the lists, and if the hon. Member found his name improperly placed upon the list his remedy was to apply to the Justices to expunge it. When the list was made out it was entered in the jury hook for the following year, and then it became the duty of the summoning officer to summon every person whose name appeared in it. It was not the duty of the summoning officer to inquire whether any person liable to be summoned was or was not permanently resident in London, as it was sufficient to leave the summons at the place of residence, there being no necessity for personal service. If the person summoned desired to have the fine for non-attendance remitted on the ground of his absence from town, he must apply to the Court, who would take the matter into consideration. In answer to the third Question of the hon. Member, he believed that some inconvenience had arisen from the fact that many persons occupied residences both in London and in the country, which gave rise to much difficulty. At the same time, he must say
 1618
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Unfortunately, Sir, it is not in our power to give any Returns on the subject which I could in any manner guarantee. There are apparently the means of rendering such Returns, because the licences of brewers are charged according to a scale, the steps of which are described by so many barrels of beer. Therefore, it may be supposed that we have the power of giving very nearly the number of barrels of beer. But in point of fact, although that law is founded, and always has been founded, on a certain number of barrels of beer— that is, a supposed number of barrels of beer, or the number of barrels of beer computed to be brewed from the quantity of malt used by each maltster, which quantity of malt of course is known—yet there is no rule of knowledge whatever. In point of fact, information given on that ground, while it might mislead people by an appearance of reality, would be but of a deceptive character.
 MR. BARING  said, in reply to the Question of the hon. and gallant Member, he had to state that the Government was aware that there was a very great disturbance in the tanning trade, mainly in consequence of the decision at which Parliament had recently arrived, prohibiting the removal of cattle by railway until the 25th of March, and the result of which was that animals were slaughtered in places where there were no conveniences for doing so. The Question, however, was now before Parliament in the form of clauses contained in the Bill introduced by the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), which was now in another place. He was informed, and he believed, that the Bill would be sent down to that House shortly, and, therefore, until Parliament should have expressed an opinion upon the subject, it would be clearly improper on the part of Government to issue any Order on the subject.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has any objection to lay upon the table a Memorial addressed to him by the Churchwardens and Inhabitants of St. Sepulchre's parish in November last regarding the Smithfield Dead Meat Market and the Correspondence consequent thereon?
 MR. COLVILLE,  on rising to ask for leave to bring in a Bill to prohibit Justices' clerks for counties conducting prosecutions in cases where the offender has been committed by the Justices to whom he acts as clerk, said, he sought to introduce no new principle, but simply to extend to counties the prohibition which had long existed in boroughs. He felt most strongly how much all those who acted as Justices were advantaged by the assistance of well qualified clerks, but the clerks were, he thought, unfortunately, paid by fees, and a very strong impression existed out of doors that in advising decisions the clerks were influenced by pecuniary motives. Certainly, the fees increased by a commitment; and with £6 or £7 looming in the distance if a prosecution was to be conducted by the clerk in the event of the offender being committed for trial, the pecuniary advantages obtained by a Justices clerk by recommending a commitment or conviction were considerable. He asked to be allowed to bring in his Bill to avoid in part this scandal. Clerks in boroughs had been prohibited from conducting prosecutions since the time of the passing of the Municipal Corporation Act. The tendency of modern legislation was to prevent officers having any money benefit from advice judicially given. Coroners were, by statute, forbidden to conduct prosecutions where cases had come before them or their jury. He (Mr. Colville) asked the House to extend the same prohibition to County Justices' clerks. He quoted a judgment given by Lord Campbell in the case of R.  v. "Unpaid magistracy have been and are a great credit to the country, but it is of the last importance that the clerk should have no interest in the prosecutions, that he should have no bias in his mind, and that he should obtain no advantage, either directly or indirectly, from those cases in which he has to give advice."
 MR. GILPIN  said, he was not about to oppose the introduction of the Bill; because
 1627
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  agreed that the words which were introduced when the Bill was committed  pro formâ 1631
 LORD ELCHO  said, that an hon. and gallant Friend opposite (Sir Charles Russell) in some observations he had made on the previous evening upon musketry instruction, had evidently not been accurately reported. His hon. and gallant Friend, he thought, had done great service in bringing the subject of musketry instruction before the notice of the House; and were it not that he (Lord Elcho) was a Volunteer, and military men might say that he was taking up a subject with which he had no concern, his own experience at Hythe would have induced him to call attention to the matter. Any person acquainted with the musketry instruction practised at Hythe, and given to our Volunteers, must feel that it was somewhat hard upon those who had to go through that course. He was told that it not only caused dislike, but that it affected the recruiting of the line. A Volunteer at Hythe was kept at practice there a fortnight; an officer used to go for twelve weeks; but he believed that that term was somewhat reduced. [Sir CHARLES RUSSELL: To ten weeks.] For all practical purposes of making a man a good shot fourteen days at Hythe was all that was necessary. An intelligent sergeant sent to Hythe to become a musketry instructor could be taught in less than ten weeks—he had no doubt that fourteen days, or even less, would make such a man competent to give the practical instructions the men required. He was not at all saying that the Hythe
 1629
 LORD WILLIAM HAY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to propose to the House the measures to be taken in consequence of the Report of the Second Commission on the grievances of Indian Officers, before issuing instructions on the subject to the Government of India; and, if so, when they will be submitted to the House?
 MR. AYRTON : There is a Bill before the House for the removal of these works, and I think it is part of the arrangement that that Bill should go before this Committee, and then the whole subject will be discussed.
 MR. AYRTON : Sir, no man is more likely to defer than I am to the wish of the House to divide; but there are occasions when it is necessary to say one word before a division takes place. The question really is this—Will the House divide on the mere question of form, or will it divide on the substance of the question before it? No doubt if we divide on the form, we shall almost be unanimous in rejecting the second reading of this Bill, because I can hardly conceive that the House of Commons would grant power to the City of London to constitute itself into a gas company; but, independent of the question of form, there is besides the great question of substance; that is, whether the House will avail itself of the present proceeding to extend the inquiry into the operation of the Metropolis Gas Companies Act? And I beg the House not to reject this substantial question
 1612 1613
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that Mr. Knox, Her Majesty's Consul at Bangkok, had returned to his post, which he had acquitted in consequence of very important affairs connected with British interests. The Government entirely approved his proceedings. In his absence he had left an officer of great ability and experience perfectly competent to manage affairs in charge of the Consulate.
 MR. NEATE  said, that the alteration which had been made for the purpose of making the annuity inalienable was much more important than it might at first seem to be. The House might declare the inalienability by a Bill; but he doubted whether they had power, by leaving the discretion with the Crown, to dispense with an existing law. As a matter of policy and general law it might be desirable to make allowances to the Royal Family inalienable in the same way that the pay of an officer was considered inalienable, it being granted to maintain a particular position. His objection in this ease was not so much to the principle as to the mode in which it was proposed to give effect to it. He did not think that a matter of this kind should be left to domestic arrangement between Her Majesty and the Prince.
 MR. NEATE  thanked the right hon. Gentleman for his very satisfactory explanation.
 MR. CRAUFURD : Sir, I am not connected with any gas company, therefore my vote will not be interested, but the reason why I object to this Bill being read a second time is that it involves a question of principle. If the gas companies have misconducted themselves let there be an inquiry. The gas companies themselves, I am sure, will be the first to court an inquiry. There are plenty of Bills before the House promoted by gas companies which will give the opportunity of an in-
 1611
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether a Return can be made by the Government of the quantity of Beer sold in the United Kingdom in any one year; and, if so, whether there is any objection to a Motion for such a Return for the years 1862, 1863, 1864, and 1865?
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he wished to know, whether Government were inclined to support the clause having reference to this subject which had been introduced into the Bill of the hon. Member for North Northamptonshire when it came down to that House?
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, considering the staple trade of many towns, and of Beverley in particular, will, if the present restriction be continued, be injured, and a large proportion of the population thrown out of employment, it is the intention of the Government to redress the inequalities in the Tanning Trade now arising out of the differences in Local Orders with regard to the removal of Hides, by issuing an uniform Order in Council on the subject?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, in answer to the Questions put by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Lowe), he begged to state that the Catholic University was a voluntary institution, it did not receive aid from the State, and was not under its control, and he was not, therefore, in a condition to produce the information asked for; but he should be happy to make inquiries, and if he succeeded, he would lay the result on the table. In reference to the several points to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded, he might state that, as the Catholic University was founded by the Roman Catholic prelates in Ireland, he was not aware that there was actually any instrument of foundation. As to the second point, the power to confer degrees, it had
 1616
 MR. STANSFELD,  in reply, said, he was not able to name the day when the matter would be submitted to the House. It would be his duty when the time came to mate a statement as to the nature of the measures which the Government were prepared to recommend. They had no desire to avoid Parliamentary discussion, or an expression of the opinion of the House on the question to which the noble Lord referred.
 MR. WHATMAN  said, he rose to ask Mr. Solicitor General, Whether, in the case of householders liable to serve on special juries, and resident in such houses during a part only of the year, and not occasionally, returning at other times, the High Bailiff of Westminster, or other summoning officers, are right in leaving summonses for such persons, their houses being shut up during such absence, to serve on juries whilst they are so absent; whether
 1617
 MR. WYLD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Mr. Knox, Her Majesty's Consul at Bangkok, had returned to his post; why he quitted it; and if any one was left in charge at the Consulate during the absence of Mr. Knox?
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he thought his hon. Friend (Mr. Hibbert) had done well in submitting his Bill in a separate form to the House, for the questions with which it was incidentally connected were of a kind that might take a longer time to carry than the single question which was embodied in his Bill. He was gratified to find that the House was in favour of the measure, and that inquiry had brought out
 1628
 MR. DODSON  hoped the hon. Gentleman who moved the second reading of this Bill would not give the House the trouble of dividing upon it. He should be sorry to express any opinion that the Bill was unnecessary, or that it was any interference with the scheme recommended by the Select Committee of 1864; but he thought that to deal with the Bill this year would be
 1597
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, stated that powers were sought by it to provide suitable accommodation for such of the working classes as should be displaced by the formation of the proposed railway. The line would run from the north-west to the north-east of London, and would afford accommodation to a populous district at present without immediate railway communication. It would also connect the London and North-Western Railway with the London, Chatham, and Dover line.
 MR. ROEBUCK  thought that the noble Lord had missed the real question before the House. The points on which he had placed his finger were just the points for the consideration of a Committee upstairs. The real question was whether the House should take an exceptional course and throw out the Bill on the second reading. The noble Earl who moved the Amendment stated that the provision made by the Joint Committee of both Houses was contravened by the present Bill, and therefore it was desirable that the House should learn from the hon. Member for North Lancashire (Colonel Wilson Patten) whether such contravention had taken place, justifying the rejection of the Bill on the second reading.
 MR. ROEBUCK : Before you put the Question, Sir, allow me to call the attention of the House to the fact that there are two retorts or gasometers, where gas is made and stored, near the Temple. Some time ago a serious accident occurred through the explosion of a gasometer, and I think that it ought to be a special subject of inquiry before the Committee, whether there can be any safety in the City while this state of things is permitted to exist.
 MR ROEBUCK : One word, Sir, and that is as to the truth of the statement that the House itself is a very unfit tribunal for trying questions of this kind. Can anybody doubt for an instant from the appearance of the House that the House has been packed for the occasion? That is, people have been taken by the button-hole, letters have been written, constituencies have been applied to, Now, I want to know by whom? Why, by the gas companies. Now, Sir, I ask the House, for its own honour, to consider what it is doing, and to ask itself whether it is now acting in that judicial capacity in which a Private Bill calls upon them to act, and whether they are worthy to do so? Now, Sir, what does the hon. Member for London himself say? Why, that he is in a peculiar position. That on the one side there is the corporation of London, and on the other the gas companies; that he is pulled by one tail of his coat by one, and the other tail of his coat by the other. Is it not clear that the proper course is to send this Bill to the tribunal which the wisdom of Parliament has long ago said is the proper judge of private legislation, and that we should not take upon ourselves, in this unseemly manner, to decide this question?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN,  in answer to the appeal just made to him, stated that his opinion very much accorded with that of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley). He and the noble Lord were members of the Joint Committee which, after the consideration of much evidence, came to the conclusion that a system of two Circles would, on the whole, afford the best means of railway accommodation to all classes in the metropolis; that certain Bills not in accordance with that system should be rejected; and that only the lines which carried out that general view should be submitted to a Committee, over which the noble Lord very good-naturedly undertook to preside, and which came to the resolution already mentioned. He thought it would be a pity, after all the consideration given to the matter, that the general view then adopted should now be upset, and another system of railways established in its place. The main recommendation of the plan of two Circles was that it would distribute the traffic among the different localities better than a system of two straight lines, and he would regret to see that plan interfered with.
 MR. CRAWFORD : Sir, in rising to move the second reading of this Bill, I am about to take what I am afraid some hon. Members of the House will consider to be a great liberty. I am going to ask them to proceed to the consideration of this Bill with their minds free and unbiased by the influences which have been endeavoured to be brought to bear upon them by the various letters and circulars, the button-holdings, the ear-wiggings, and the various other methods by which parties interested in Private Bills endeavour to influence the minds of Members. I will ask hon. Members to do that which their Chaplain every day expresses the devout wish they may be able to do—namely, that they will" lay aside private interests, prejudices, and partial affections, "and proceed to the consideration of this Bill, as a Bill which intimately affects the interests, the comforts, and the well-being of 3,000,000 of people. Now, Sir, my own position in reference to this matter is not a very enviable one, because I have on the one hand the corporation of the City of London, representing by the process of annual election a great civic community, requesting me to bring in this Bill, and to move its second reading, and, on the other hand, I have amongst my constituents a vast number of gentlemen interested in gas companies, whose interests I am bound not to disregard. But, Sir, I am not one of those persons who neglect a duty, and I have, indeed, considered it a part of my duty to wade through the whole of the letters and publications that have been sent to me upon this subject. I have
 1598 7s. 1599 s d s s s. 6d. s. d. s. d. 1600 de novo. 1601 1602 1603 primâ facie
 MR. CRAWFORD : I now move, Sir, that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of twelve members, five to be chosen by the Committee of Selection, and that it be an instruction to the Committee to inquire into the operation of the Gas Act of 1860.
 MR. LOWE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland. Whether he will obtain and lay upon the table of the House the following information with regard to the Catholic University:—The Instrument of its foundation; the authority by which it professes to confer Degrees, and a list of such Degrees; the number of its Students fur each year since its foundation; and by Students he understood Students actually studying in the University, not affiliated to the Institution, and not evening Students; also the number of Professors?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, it is not the intention of the Government, as at present advised, to bring in any Bill in order to extend the system of inspection and survey now applied to the Emigrant and Passenger Ships to vessels employed in carrying cattle. Various regulations of a sanitary character have been proposed with respect to the importation of foreign cattle, for the purpose of preventing the introduction of contagious cattle diseases into this country. It has appeared, however, to the Government advisable that a Committee of this House should be appointed to inquire into this subject, and it is worthy of consideration whether such Committee should not also inquire whether any or what regulations should be imposed on the inland carrying of cattle by railways.
 MR. W. EWART  said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the Motion, but he thought it was a sort of self-condemnation of the supporters of capital punishment, when, after pleading the public example as a justification for executions, they now sought to withdraw from the public that example. There was hardly any subject on which so many vaccillations took place as on the subject of capital punishment. He was surprised that no provision was made in the Bill for the admission of the members of the press to witness the executions in case they should wish to do so. His hon. Friend had alluded to many countries where private executions took place; but had he observed the accounts received from countries where capital punishment does not exist at all? He would not find that in a single instance the country that had abolished capital punishment repented of it. His (Mr. W. Ewart's) feeling against capital punishment was as strong as ever; he believed the feeling against it was increasing every day, and must do so as long as Christianity and civilization proceeded in their course.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE : Mr. Speaker, after the last speech I feel it incumbent upon me to say a few words with regard to the matter before the House. The hon. Member who has spoken in favour of this measure being read this day six months, has alluded to circumstances which have nothing whatever to do with this Bill. This Bill has been introduced by the corporation of the City of London, because it has been pressed upon their notice by the whole of the inhabitants of the City, and the corporation feels that when they do anything for the benefit of the City, they do it also for the benefit of the inhabitants of this great metropolis. Sir, on the last occasion when the gas companies united to prevent another company being introduced into the City of London, the same attacks were
 1608
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL : I am obliged to my noble Friend for calling attention to a slight inaccuracy in  The Times Army and Navy Gazette, 1630
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, in consequence of the statement of the noble Lord (Viscount Cranbourne) who was a Member
 1609 "And no other company or person than the company to whom such limits are for the time being assigned, or shall hereafter he assigned, shall supply gas for sale within the said limits unless authorized by Parliament so to do." 1610
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I do not propose to offer any opposition to the Motion of my on. Friend. He has given great attention to the subject of his Bill; and has many times called the attention of the House to the principle upon which it is founded. The measure he proposes for our consideration does not touch in any degree, as I understand it, the question whether we should have capital punishment or not; it simply relates to the mode of giving effect to that punishment. Permit me, Sir, to remind the House of what has taken place upon this subject. When I announced the intention of the Government to advise Her Majesty to issue a
 1626
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Government had no objection to the introduction of the Bill.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there would
 1620
 MR. ADAIR : Sir, I have risen to second the Motion of the noble Lord, whose very lucid explanation of the circumstances which led to the Gas Act of 1860, renders it unnecessary for me to make any observation upon the particular part of the subject. But I am anxious to draw the attention of the House to the circumstances under which this proposition comes before it, whose Bill it is, and how it is proposed to be carried out. It appears to me that certain ratepayers of the City of London, being dissatisfied with the quality of the gas supplied to them, and not having thought it necessary to apply to the proper tribunal for redress, that is to say to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, who sits below me, go to the Common Council of the City of London in a fit of spasmodic activity, and say we must bring in a Bill to remedy their grievances. Sir, who are the Common Council of the corporation of London? Why, Sir, it is the corporation of London itself. And what is the corporation of London? A very venerable and powerful institution, so powerful that it has been able three times to defy the threatened attacks of the right hon. Gentleman below me, and to its own admiration it remains to this day the only unreformed and irresponsible corporation in the kingdom. Well, Sir, the House will
 1606 1607
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he desired, before the Question was answered, to put that of which he had given notice, having reference to the same subject. He wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, whether the changes contemplated in the constitution of the Queen's University in Ireland are to be affected by a surrender from the Corporation of their present Charter, or in what other manner; and if by a surrender of the Charter, whether the assent of the University to such surrender has been obtained?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the Bill expressly proceeded on the principles laid down by the Joint Committee of 1864 and the Lords' Committee of 1863, which were mainly to the effect that companies seeking lines through London should connect by underground communication the great through lines of the country. The promoters of the present Bill had observed those conditions, and proposed by an underground railway to connect the London and North-Western Railway with the London, Chatham, and Dover Railway.
 MR. HIBBERT,  in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to permit Capital Punishments to be carried out under certain regulations within the interior of Prisons, said, he should have been very glad to leave the question entirely in the hands of the Government if he had perceived any disposition on their part to bring in a Bill on the subject, and a desire to carry it to a successful issue. He was personally careless as to the fate of his own Bill, provided he attained the object he had in view. He wished to make a few remarks on the question with which the Bill he asked leave to introduce sought to deal, because last year, when he had the honour of submitting a similar measure, he was prevented making any statement by the fact that the subject was at the moment under the consideration of the Capital Punishment Commissioners. In looking at the question lie could not help referring to the very great change which had taken place in our penal system and in our penal laws during the present century. The House, he was sure, would agree with him in thinking that civilization had advanced concurrently with those changes, and that a mitigation of our penal laws had been produced by the force of public opinion. At the commencement of the present century criminals were hung, one might say, in droves; there were then no less than 160 crimes subject to capital punishment. He could not avoid referring to those times when the pillory was a public punishment, when culprits were hung in chains, and whipping was resorted to as a means of correction. He did so to show how the rigour of the law had been relaxed, and how the result justified our doing away with the few remains that were left of the barbarism of a past age. Those changes had not been carried
 1622 The Times' 1623 "It was such a concourse as we hope may never again be assembled either for such a spectacle, or for the gratification of such lawless ruffianism as yesterday found scope around the gallows … There can be only one thing more difficult than describing this crowd, and that is to forget it … None but those who looked down upon the crowd of yesterday will ever believe in the leisurely, open, broadcast manner in which garotting and highway robbery were carried on…Such were the open pastimes of the mob from daylight till near the hour of execution⁖The impression, however (speaking of the silence at the time of execution itself), if any it was, beyond that of mere curiosity, did not last for long; and before the slow slight vibration of the body had well ended, violence, laughing, oaths, obscene conduct, and still more filthy language, reigned around the gallows far and near." The Times 1624 "An Act be passed putting an end to public executions, and directing that sentences of death should be carried out within the precincts of the prison, with such regulations as might be considered necessary to prevent abuse and satisfy the public that the law had been complied with. 1625
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether there be any intention on the part of Her Majesty's Government to extend the system of inspection and survey now applied to Emigrant and Passenger Ships to Vessels engaged in the Cattle-carrying trade, with a view to securing the health, safety, and comfort of animals brought into this Country, either for the purpose of being slaughtered for food, or for dairy and breeding purposes?
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  asked the
 1596
 MR. GILPIN  said, that he hoped that in the course of the few remarks which he should address to the House he should say nothing calculated to cause a hostile feeling between the opponents and the supporters of the measure. It was fitting that on that, as on former occasions, the Motion for the abolition of church rates should be brought forward by a Member of the Church of England, and his hon. Friend (Mr. Hard-castle) had worthily performed the duly which was formerly discharged by Sir John Trelawny. It was with great gratification he saw that the Member who was to oppose the Bill was the right hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole), a gentleman who had won for himself the esteem of every man in the House by his honourable and upright conduct. His character was such that any man would be glad to meet him as an opponent, feeling assured that he would meet the subject with consideration and fairness. They had nothing to complain of on the last occasion, and the hon. Member opposite (Mr. Gathorne Hardy) who led the Opposition to the Bill made the best of what he must be allowed to call a bad cause. He did not intend to go over the ground already occupied by the hon. Member who moved the second reading of the Bill. He desired to allude to what had been the working of "Christian willinghood," and he would only ask what must be the opinion held by other religionists of a Church whose members either could not or would not perform for themselves the duties performed for themselves by the members of all other religious communities. In the course of a former debate he had stated that the furni-
 1640 "Magistrates' clerk's costs, 16 s. d. s. s. d. s. s. d. s. s. s. d.; s. s. s. d., s. s. d., s. d., s. d. d. s. "Congregational Home Missionary Society, £6,000; Colonial Missionary Society, £6,402; Baptist Home Missionary Society, £4,000; General Baptist Mission, £2,689; Baptist Irish So-
 1641 s. d., s. d. "1. 800 churches, at an average cost of £918 6 s., s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1642 "Local building fund, £37,034 3 s. d.; s. d, s. s. s. d. s. d. s d. s. d.; s. d s. d. s. d s. d.; s. d.; s. d. "When first he became connected with the society it had a Parliamentary grant of £15,000, which was opposed year after year by a great economist—no longer among us—but a man of whom all should speak with respect, and it was withdrawn. At the time that was regarded as a heavy blow to the society, and so it was, as the withdrawal of Parliamentary confidence; and as the connection between Church and State was one of the best and holiest which could exist, the withdrawal was a loss in that sense; but, as a pecuniary loss, it was made up by the voluntary offerings all over the country." "For many years they had the 'Queen's Letter,' which collected about £30,000 every three years.
 1643
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I do not rise to address the House on this occasion in virtue of my connection with Her Majesty's Government. The Government, up to the present time, have not perceived such a state of facts and circumstances in relation to this question as would have justified them in making a proposition to the House. I think we must
 1661 1662 1663 primâ facie 1664 1665 1666 1667 1668
 MR. BRIGHT : I had no intention of offering any observations to the House, but after the course which the debate has taken, and after the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I should like to occupy the time of the House for a few minutes only. The Chancellor of the Exchequer is not in the House at the present moment, and he perhaps may not come back. [ Laughter. 1674 1675 1676 1677 1678 1679
 MR. BRIGHT : The majority was in favour of the rate, but such was the state of feeling against it that it was found impossible to levy it. The rate was, therefore, abandoned.
 MR. MORLEY  said, he desired to say a few words to the House as he had been particularly alluded to during the debate. He earnestly desired that the olive branch held out might be accepted. The vast majority of the Dissenters of this country regarded this subject, not as a political, but purely as a religious question, and thousands of the Nonconformists throughout the country would, he believed, hail with pleasure such a settlement of the question as that proposed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Allusion had been made to the evidence which he gave before the Committee of the House of Lords, and he might state that when summoned before the Committee he had no knowledge of the precise subject upon which he was to be examined. He was met on appearing before the Committee by the Bishop of London with the report of the Liberation Society in his hand, and, without desiring to impute any motive to that distinguished personage, the whole thing appeared to be done for a purpose. A great number of the Dissenters of this country regarded,
 1689
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he could scarcely express the pleasure with which he had listened to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer since in it he saw, or at least he thought he saw, daylight breaking on this vexed and cloudy question. In that speech was a declaration of a desire on the part of the right hon. Gentleman that this question should be settled fairly and equitably for the Church, and fairly and equitably for Dissent. He rejoiced to hear such a declaration from one who possessed not only the goodwill but the power to carry such a settlement into effect. Similar settlements had often been proposed before, but they were advocated by those who possessed the will but not the power to induce the House to assent to them. They must not forget that the right hon. Gentleman who moved the rejection of the Bill that morning had himself, in 1859, when on the Treasury Bench, moved a Church Rate Settlement Bill, which involved the exemption of those who were undesirous of paying the rate. But the Government of which, if the right hon. Gentleman was not the leader, he was, at all events, a most prominent Member, had not a majority of the House at the time, and his Bill contained, unfortunately, certain provisions of
 1669 "That for the future persons desirous of being exempted from contributing to the church rates in any parish may give yearly notice to that effect to the Churchwardens prior to the meeting of any vestry for the making of a church rate, and that such persons shall not be entitled to attend any such vestry and to vote upon the making or the application of such rate, or to act as Churchwardens, in any matter relating to the Church, or to retain any seat appropriated to them in the Church during the time of such exemption." 1670 1671 1672
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I only rise to warn hon. Members not to fancy they are voting on one issue when they are really voting on another. The question before the House is the second reading of a Bill for the total, immediate, and unconditional abolition of church rates. That is the real and only issue. The speech of the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Morley), which, for its frankness, does him great credit, acknowledges that there is another issue before the House worthy of consideration, and, from the cheers that expression received from the friends of the hon. Member, I assume that they adopt that interpretation of the position in which the matter stands. If that be the case, the consistent course for the hon. Member for Bury to adopt is to move the adjournment of the debate, and take an opportunity that the sense of the House may be had on the real proposition before it, and not on one which, at the very time when the question is called to a division, is explained with so many versions that there exists a variety of opinions as to its exact import. I will not offer my own interpretation of the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, because they really have nothing to do with the question now before the House. If the scheme of the Chancellor of the Exchequer be worthy a decision of the House, let it be placed before the House in a manner which cannot be mistaken, and, coming from such a quarter, I am sure it will meet with a full consideration and adequate discussion. But I protest against schemes of that character proceeding from the highest authority in the House being introduced to disturb the debate and distract the House from the real issue—an unwise issue, I believe, on the part of those who raise it, but, being raised, it must be accepted and met—namely, the proposition for the total and immediate abolition of church rates. That is a policy to which I am entirely opposed, and it is the only question before the House.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : Sir, in addressing the House on a subject so well worn I feel that I ought perhaps to apologize for speaking at all but though I have taken an interest in it on former occasions I have only once addressed the House upon it. I am therefore, perhaps, in some respects, entitled to take part in the present debate. The hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) has addressed us in lamblike accents, as if he now sought to coax us to follow him having vainly endeavoured to drive us. But he appears to have forgotten that on the occasion to which he alludes, as on this, we resisted the proposition he made, because the Bill then before the House embodied the same principle as this Bill. The proposition which he then made and now again makes was not brought forward in the shape in which it ought to be in order to have the acceptance of the House—in the form of a Bill, but as something that was promised if the Bill was read a second time. The second reading of this Bill, however, involves the principle of doing away altogether with compulsory rates for sustaining the fabrics of the Church and its services. The hon. Member for Birmingham says that my right hon. Friend (Mr. Sotheron Estcourt) was prepared to accept the proposition he made. I think that most be an error of recollection on the part of the hon. Member for Birmingham. I can speak positively, having had much conversion with Mr. Estcourt on the subject, and I am confirmed in this by the fact that in 1861 he put on the table Resolutions which
 1680 "That the law relating to church rates may be beneficially settled by combining in one measure provisions for each of the following objects:—1. To enable vestries specially summoned, and in which owners shall have a vote by proxy, to transfer from occupiers to owners so much of their liability as regards the repair of their parish church and churchyard; and to make such special rate, if voted by a majority, recoverable by the same process as a rate for repairs of highway." 1681 "Aslackby, Oct. 2. "Dear Sir,—On due consideration on the subject of property and its responsibilities, I am obliged to come to the conclusion that it is the duty of every man to use the influence his property gives for the welfare of society at large, as well as for his own personal interest. In the great struggle now going on between what is called the Established Church and the Dissenters, the latter being the weakest, and having been so long oppressed, cannot afford to lose any influence they possess, and as you cannot remain neuter, I must request you to give up the occupation of the tenure you hold of me in Bicker. In taking this step I feel that I am but doing justice to myself, my family, and the public; nor can you complain of either injustice or hardship, seeing you have a sufficiently large occupation and ownership of land, and that you also expect your tenants to vote in support of your own principles. Hoping you are quite well, with Mrs. T. and family, and with every wish for your welfare, I am, dear Sir, yours truly, E.SMITH." "Aslackby, Oct. 4. "Dear Sir,—Were I to consult only my own feelings I should make no change at Bicker, but when I consider principles and responsibilities I am constrained to think and act differently. When I gave up business some eighteen or nineteen years back you were young, and wanted to start in the world, and being a relative of the family, I willingly helped; Mr. Jervis, also, seeing your industrious and business habits, favoured you, and eventually left you his property, which he never would have done to an untried man. As time passed on I had many scruples in conscience as to the right of you retaining the double occupation, especially as you had ownership in half. You know it has always been against my principles to add farm to farm. Then, again, I have always had a wish that the superstitions and delusions of the Established Church should be exposed to the poor and ignorant, and that they should not be deceived upon the all-important point of regeneration. I have, in fact, all along desired that the Gospel should be simply preached in Bicker, but have never had firmness to act upon these convictions. Late events have brought the subject more prominently before me, and I am persuaded it is my duty to use my utmost endeavours for the spiritual as well as the temporal welfare of those who from their locality had a claim upon every enlightened landowner, and this I cannot do while you occupy my land. As a member of the Established Church you have acted consistently, and I hope you will continue so to do while you attach yourself to that party. As a Dissenter I have not been so consistent hitherto, but I hope henceforth to carry out my principles with due energy, I
 1682 E. SMITH." "Aslackby, Oct. 13. "Dear Sir,—Will the afternoon of Tuesday next be a convenient time to meet you at the feu house? I may see you at the fair, and can arrange about any further day if the above-named time will not suit you. You must be aware that no part of the restoration of Bicker Church would have fallen upon me in the event of the money being borrowed, so that my brother's proposal does not meet the difficulties of the ease. It the principle I object to, as it affects other tenants and the public. On principle I cannot allow any part of my property to help in upholding a false eastern of worship which I detest. I am sure no Churchman would allow any part of his property to uphold any of those to him odious schismatic conventicles which are such an eyesore to him in the land. As our principles differ so widely upon this point, as well as upon the large occupation of land, it is best we should part as landlord and tenant. I shall always respect your integrity and independence, and shall be ready to help you in any way consistent with principle. I do not like your parson's interference in the matter. Please tell him to mind his own business and get the church repaired. I hope Mrs. T. is well.—Yours truly. E. SMITH." "Aslackby, Oct. 24. "Dear Sir,—I do not intend settling anything about the land at present, but cannot hold out hope of further occupation as you desire. This will depend upon circumstances which at present I need not explain to you. I am quite satisfied with your management of the land, and feel sure you will do what is right. I only wish our principles were not so antagonistic. Hoping Mrs. T. and family, with your mother and sister, are quite well, I am, dear Sir, yours truly, "E. SMITH." 1683 1684
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : It was then in consequence of the generally hostile spirit exhibited towards the collection of the rate that circulars were issued stating at the top that the rate was voluntary and not compulsory. But then the same process is open to any parish that chooses to adopt it. What we protest against, however, is the tyranny of one part of the country over another. My hon. Friend (Mr. Hardcastle) says, "There are many large parishes where church rates are abolished." We reply, "There are many small places where they are collected, and collected with facility;" and we ask, "Why do you come and seek to force us by your tyranny to act as you do?" Why interfere with local government, the government by majorities, which I believe to have been so conducive to the liberties of this country? But the question has to-day assumed a rather remark-
 1685 1686 1687
 MR. HARDCASTLE  said, he would consent to no proposal which should in the slightest degree interfere with the main principle of his Bill. That principle was, the abolition of church rates; but if that were sanctioned he would, at a future stage of the Bill, entertain, with the greatest respect and consideration, any proposal
 1690
 MR. HARDCASTLE : I wish to express to the House in the strongest manner in which I am able my sense of the great responsibility which I incur in attempting to deal with this question, and I trust the House will grant to me some portion of that indulgence which they are usually willing to grant to persons who do not often presume to interfere in their debates—an indulgence of which I assure the House I feel greatly in need. This question has been so often debated in previous Parliaments, it has been a subject of so much interest to the country at large, that I think it cannot be expected, after thirty years of discussion, that I should be able to adduce many facts or arguments having the charm of novelty. At the some time, as this is the first Session of a new Parliament, and as there are many hon. Gentlemen present who have not had a seat in this House before, I think I should hardly be doing justice to those Gentlemen if I did not enter at rather greater length into the general merits of the question than I should otherwise consider it necessary to do. It is, I believe, now more than thirty years since the question was first debated in this House. Soon after the abolition of a similar grievance in Ireland called
 1633 1634 1635 1636 1637 1638 "Cruel Distraint for Church Rates by the Broseley Churchwardens.—On Thursday last a distraint was made on the goods of James Clark, a poor labouring man, with a wife and seven children, a bed-ridden mother, 83 years of age, and an imbecile sister. The amount of church rate was 1 s. d 1639
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, there are one or two points in the speeches of the hon. Gentlemen who have just spoken which seem to require some remark before I offer any observations on the Bill itself. One circumstance is that there was a peculiar omission from the beginning to the end of the speech of my hon. Friend who first addressed the House (Mr. Hardcastle)—
 1644 1645 "That it is unjust and inexpedient to abolish the ancient customary right, exercised from time immemorial by the ratepayers of every parish in England, to raise by rate among themselves the sums required for the repair of their Church, until some other provision shall have been made by Parliament for the discharge of those obligations to which, by custom or statute, the Churchwardens, on the part of the parish, are liable."—[3  Hansard, 1646 1647 1648 "From the general tenour of your observations, am I correct in stating that your object is to give power to the majority; that it would satisfy you if the majority of a meeting had the power secured to them by law—is that all that you would desire?" "I should be satisfied with that pretty well— far better satisfied than with any compromise. But then I would wish to be clearly understood that, while I should regard with complacency such a condition of the law, it would be because I feel that the great antagonism of Dissenters is better fought in church rate controversies; they afford a better and more advantageous mode of exciting popular attention to the subject than any other." 1649 "Supposing Parliament were to pass a law which exempted Dissenters from the payment of church rates, and which gave Churchmen only the power of rating themselves, would the persons whom you represent feel it to be their duty to endeavour again to obtain the repeal of that law?" "Certainly. I doubt very much the power of the House of Commons. I mean by that, that that kind of law would excite an amount of opposition which would occasion some difficulty. In other words, the Dissenters would rather that the question should remain as it is than that it should so be dealt with." 1650 "I think the Committee understand that you give it quite as your impression that if the church rate question were settled to-morrow, it would not tend to produce what I may call peace between the Established Church and the body of Evangelical Dissenters?" "It could not be considered as settling the question, in which we feel that we have an interest." "You think that any idea of collision between the two parties would subside by a settlement of the church rate question is a short-sighted view?" "Yes, I think that the question at issue is a principle which must involve much more than that." "And as long as the Established Church exists there will be the same point of difference as there is now—it is a mere question of detail?" "That is my judgment." 1651 1652 nils, nils nils 1653 1654 1655 "Christianity must go forth in quest of human nature. Human nature uninstructed and unassisted never will go forth in quest of Christianity."
 MR. DU CANE : Sir, I rise to second the Amendment. But I wish, in the first instance, to tender my thanks, and, I may add also, the thanks of those who sit around me, to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University for the admirable and effective speech he has just delivered against the second reading of this Bill. I also have to express my gratification that we are called upon by a direct issue—aye or nay—to affirm or reject the Bill, and not to entertain the question of compromise. I have no wish to express any opinion in the abstract adverse to a fair and equitable compromise of this question. I am as ready as my right hon. Friend to acknowledge and as frankly as he has done to admit the imperfections of the existing law, and I will most gladly at the proper time give my support to any measure which might really remedy them, and render the law of church rates more in conformity with the relations which the Church at present bears to the great body of the people of
 1656 1657 1658 "We have a National Church, an hereditary Monarch, an hereditary aristocracy; and my belief is that all these things stand together, and that as they stand together so they must fall together. I therefore must oppose the abolition of church rates as having a tendency to subvert the best institutions of the country." 1659 Nonconformist "Political Reform is the broad highway on which we must march to religious freedom and equality." "Help forward the abolition of church rates and the separation of Church and State whenever you can. If you cannot do that, help forward the suffrage, and the rest will follow as a matter of course." 1660
 SIR THOMAS LLOYD  said, he must apologize for trespassing, however briefly, on the attention of the House. He wished to say however, that if he were apprehensive that the vote he was about to give would be prejudicial to the interests of the Church of England, of which he was an attached member, no political considerations, however urgent, would induce him to do so. If, moreover, he believed that this measure was but a step towards the separation of Church and State, he should be the last man in the House to consent to it. But there were two considerations which influenced him on the present occasion—first, the interests of the Church herself; and, next, the question of justice to the Nonconformists of the kingdom. It was an anxiom of sound legislation that for the maintenance and well-being of existing institutions Parliament must be prepared to redress any well-grounded grievances which might be shown to exist. The question then arose whether church rates were really a grievance? In his opinion they were. He admitted that this had not always been the case, for, at the remote period when church rates were first instituted, there was a practical uniformity of belief throughout the kingdom. Some millions of our fellow-subjects now dissented from the Church of England, and he would ask the House whether it was for the interests of the Church that they should allow a rankling sense of injustice to remain in the minds of this numerous class, and from want of timely concession number among the Church's foes those who, under different treatment, might have been retained as friends? There were those who regarded church rates principally as an honourable badge of distinction in connection with the State, and who maintained that if church rates were abolished the Church would he ruined. Now, he
 1688
 THE LORD ADVOCATE : Sir, the Question put by my hon. Friend is very general in its terms; but, if I understand him correctly, he refers to the expense caused by the present Law of Settlement. I have only to say that I am very sensible of the evil complained of, and some years ago I introduced a measure calculated to remedy it. I did not then receive the amount of support I expected, but I shall be very glad to re-consider the matter.
 MR. DAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Kilkenny, Whether it is his intention to bring on his Mo-lion relative to the Irish Church Establishment on Tuesday, March 13th; and whether he will state the wording of the Resolution which he has given notice that he would move on that occasion?
 MR. BARING  said, that the Chairman of the Metropolitan Board of Works had called the attention of his right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) to the inconvenience caused by the orders of the magistrates in the counties referred to by the hon. Member. Sir John Thwaites expressed his fear that, on account of the refusal of the magistrates to allow the manure to be sent from the city into the country, the public health might be endangered. He (Mr. Baring) had communicated with some of the magistrates, and trusted that arrangements might be made to obviate the difficulty. The Cattle Plague Bill contained some provisions with reference to the subject, and when the Bill came down from the House of Lords, the House could introduce into it any provisions which might seem desirable. Under these circumstances, the Government did not intend to issue any Order of Council upon the subject.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that cavalry horses had lately been sent to Ireland. The Order in Council referred to cattle only, and not to horses.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It is intended to move that the
 1712
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to say a word or two on this subject. The proposition is that there should be a uniform oath which, all the Members of the House can take. Now, there is a small number of Members on whom the Bill as it stands will impose the necessity of making a declaration which hitherto they have not been required to make. If the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department will look at the affirmation to which I and a few
 1721
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the subject referred to by the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Colonel Fane) had been several times under the consideration of different Secretaries of State, none of whom considered it would be advisable to make any change in the present system, because the militia force was intended to be, and it was hoped, in spite of the difficulty at present experienced in obtaining subaltern officers, would continue to be mainly a local force. He doubted whether the payment of the travelling expenses of the officers to their own residences would remove the difficulty of obtaining subaltern officers. He believed that officers on half-pay in the Line would not join the militia in any rank subordinate to that of captain. The matter had been under consideration, and it did not appear that any good result would be obtained from the payment of larger sums. In reply to the question of the other hon. and gallant Gentleman (Mr. Percy Wyndham), he had no hesitation in saying that it would be a very great advantage to recruiting for the Line if the Civil Service could be thrown open to pensioners to a greater extent than it was at present. The experiment had been tried for a short time of employing soldier clerks in the War Office, and it had proved successful. The heads of the Department spoke highly of them, and of the efficient
 1749
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that it was in consequence of the reduction of the force in China.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the number of subordinate officers of Commissariat employed was not stated in the Estimates. He also wished to ask a few questions with reference to the rations, fie wanted to know if the rations were served to 133,000 men, or to a greater or less number, and whether they were served for 365 or 300 days? He also wished to know if a ration cost the same in England as in the colonies, and if this was not the case, how much it cost in India and how much in the colonies?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the forces in China had not yet been reduced, but they would shortly be, as one regiment had been ordered home. In the Appendix to the Estimates a very full statement was given of all the officers in the Commissariat Department, and of the number of subordinates employed at each station. Rations were provided for the whole of the troops on the home establishment for every day in the year; and he saw that they were provided for the troops in several of the colonies in the same manner as was done at home. He could not then speak as to the practice in regard to rations in the rest of the colonies.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, they consisted of colonial allowances which were now given in a consolidated form.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he wished to call attention to the increasing charge for the conveyance of troops by railway. It amounted to upwards of £5,000 more than in the preceding year. The reason that formerly existed for moving the quarters of our troops so frequently no longer operated. Within the last twelve months there had been an unnecessary movement of troops from England to Ireland, and from Ireland to England, before the recent unhappy
 1750
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he thought the charge for the clothing of our soldiers was very high, and nearly double the cost of the clothing for the corresponding grades of the French army. Great care was taken in regard to the clothing of the French soldier, particularly as to accuracy in fitting him. He wished to refer to the clothing establishment at Pimlico, and submitted that the tailoring wages should be of less amount than they appeared to be. By means of contracts or by efficient superintendence, an endeavour ought to be made to effect a reduction in that Vote.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that in instituting a comparison between the cost of the clothing of the English and the French army they must not be misled by the French Estimates, which simply included the coatee, the trousers, and the shako. He did not think either that the quality of the material was equal to that used here. The French soldier received an allowance in respect of his other articles of dress. The Government clothing manufactory at Pimlico had been of great service, not only in supplying a better kind of cloth and better fitting clothes for the army than they had before, but also in cheapening its cost. That establishment acted as a check upon the contractors, and kept down their prices. Before it existed the contract price of the soldier's coatee was £1 1 s. d., s. d.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, 297 persons
 1751
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, the central depot could make clothing at a much cheaper rate than any contractor.
 LORD HENRY PERCY  said, that as general officer, he had had to inspect clothing of different descriptions, and that he felt confident that every captain under his command would tell the House that the clothing furnished by the Government was a hundred times better than that supplied by private contract.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he was greatly surprised by the remarks of the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White) that the Government never could make out a balance-sheet. The balance-sheets of these clothing establishments were drawn up on a plan of the late Mr. Cobden, and if he did not know how to make out a balance-sheet, who did? Every item, including wear and tear, would he found inserted. The hon. Member said the Government were so unfortunate that they always fell into the hands of dishonest contractors, but the facts of the case were a sufficient answer to that charge. The contracts were all advertised and open to everybody, and how such startling facts as those which had been mentioned could be possible he was at a loss to know. Since the introduction of these clothing establishments the contracts were 25 per cent lower, and they were useful not only in that way but in testing the cloths sent in by contractors. He visited one of these establishments the other day and was shown two pieces of cloth, one good and the other so bad that it was impossible for it to be applied to any purpose. At the same time it looked so well; and, on being asked to select the better sample of the two, he chose the bad piece. In fact, it was so difficult to tell the one from the other that for aught he knew both the hon. Member for Brighton and himself might be clothed in "shoddy," However, if it were impossible to clothe the army without contractors, there should be an efficient supervision, for it was a well-known fact that the clothing sent out to the Crimea in a great exigency were made in Seven Dials and Whitechapel—in districts afflicted with all sorts of infectious diseases, and some of the sickness which was so fatal to our troops went out in that clothing. ["Oh, oh !"] The fact was well-known. The  Trent 1755
 COLONEL SYKES  said, that the result of the French system was that a private's jacket in France cost 56 f., s.,
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that it was useless to institute a comparison between our Estimates and those of the French, unless the latter were laid on the table. The French Estimates were constructed upon an entirely different principle, and he doubted whether there were more than one or two Members in the House who understood the French principle. The hon. Member for Brighton had not answered, and indeed could not answer, the fact that the contract prices of clothing had greatly decreased since the Government had introduced these clothing factories. He did not understand the hon. Member to say that all the contractors were dishonest men, but that the Government officials had a great aptness at finding out those that were dishonest; but would the hon. Member point out in what way the country would receive greater benefit from competition? At present, although the competition was quite open to everybody, one great contractor had beaten all the others out of the field. If, therefore, the Government had not these factories it would be entirely in the hands of Mr. Tait, and did the hon. Member think that would be an economical arrangement? In these particular articles, too, it should
 1756
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he had understood that certain commanding officers having complained of the clothing wrote to the clothing department on the subject but received no answer. As there were plenty of clerks at the War Office, some might be sent to the clothing establishment to answer the letters of complaint sent there by the commanding officers.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he understood that there was only one contractor. While he was Secretary at War the institution at Pimlico was brought into operation, and there were a great number of contractors. On two occasions of late years there had arisen two emergencies calling suddenly for a large increase of clothing, the Crimean War and the Indian Mutiny. When the War Department was remodelled it was Lord Panmure's view upon the experience of the Crimea that the army should have always in store a good stock of everything wanted. When he entered upon office £300,000 was spent upon a building to contain all the stores necessary. In the fortification scheme which Lord Palmerston proposed, a great central depot for stores was included, and up to the beginning of last year Lord Palmerston had not abandoned that idea. A moderate store of clothing ought to be kept in readiness for sudden calls, but there was no need to supply a very large reserve.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that if the hon. and gallant Gentleman (Major Stuart Knox) would tell him privately from which regiments complaints of the clothing had been sent in he would inquire into the matter. The clothing kept at Pimlico was clothing which had accumulated in consequence of more having been provided for regiments than was required; but he was not aware that it ever had been intended to keep up a large stock of ordinary regimental clothing. He believed the clothing of the cavalry was made in the regimental workshops.
 LORD NAAS  said, the Committee would recollect that it was discovered that the War Department had resolved to take on lease from the Office of Woods and Forests the whole of the Curragh of Kildare for a
 1758
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that what he had stated was that where there was only one consumer of the article it was very easy for a limited number of contractors to combine together and charge what they liked. He had mentioned before that only one contractor, Mr. Tait, of Limerick, supplied clothing to the War Office. This was not because there was any restriction of competition, but because, being a large contractor, he was able to supply clothing cheaper than other persons.
 LORD NAAS  said, the object he had in
 1759
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury to explain why the sum of £320 paid to the ranger of the Curragh was not given to a retired military officer instead of a civilian?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that so far from the condition of the Curragh being in all respects satisfactory, he was lead to believe that in many respects it required amendment.
 LORD NAAS : But the military authorities at the Curragh are opposed to this particular form of amendment.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he had heard nothing to that effect. The General commanding and the principal officer of engineers were certainly not in favour of the proposal to leave the Curragh as now existing, but he had not heard of any remonstrance from them with regard to the Bill about to be introduced. He was surprised to hear any objection made to the course taken by the authorities in the matter, for he understood that they were merely acting in conformity with the wishes expressed in that House last year. He could state that they did not intend to interfere in any way with the private rights or to confiscate any man's property. The rights of the real commoners—as distinguished from usurpers—would be preserved, and would even perhaps be rendered more valuable than
 1760
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, they had tried to make the Vote as intelligible as they could, but he was not sure that the rule suggested by the hon. and gallant Member would be found at all convenient. Vote 4 contained the charges for barracks and charges paid by barrack masters. To put in that Vote charges which properly came under the Works Vote would be extremely inconvenient, and would entirely frustrate the object in view of making some
 1762
 GENERAL PEEL  said, the engineer officer had in 1855 reported against the erection of barracks at the spot. No sum of money whatever appeared to have been taken for the barracks referred to.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not aware that the warrant read by the hon. and gallant Member was different from warrants of the same character in other branches of the service, but he knew that all departments of the War Office possessed the power to bar the promotion of an inefficient official. This was thought right on the principle that a man might be usefully employed in an inferior capacity and be deemed incompetent to fill a more important office. He would cause inquiry to be made respecting the matter referred to by the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley)
 LORD HENRY PERCY  asked, whether the Government would consider the advantage to be derived by the army from making the office of Judge Advocate General permanent? Much discussion had arisen of late upon the subject of courts martial; and he was of opinion that a stop should be put to all comment on the proceedings of such courts, for discipline could not be maintained in the army if it were permitted that officers should be loaded with abuse. With respect to the appointment of Judge Advocate General, he would remark that the gentleman appointed was generally a barrister and a political adherent, not cognizant of military law and totally ignorant of military discipline. The moment he took office he had to go to school to learn his duties, and the chances were at the end of six months he would be turned out. Another would then be appointed who in his turn had to go through the same course. It was desirable that his decisions should be uniform. At present the duties were performed by the Deputy Judge Advocate. Judge Advocates should be appointed exactly in the same manner as the Judges of the land; and, as the Secretary of State for the Home Department was the mouthpiece in Parliament for the Judges of the Superior Courts, so the Secretary of State for War should be the mouthpiece of the Judge Advocate.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the question was one of great importance. Very possibly considerable convenience and some material advantage might arise from a change which made the office of Judge Advocate permanent and not temporary. But there were a great many reasons which made it necessary that
 1764
 LORD HENRY PERCY  said, he thought it would be better if the Judge Advocate General were not obliged to attend the House. He would be more profitably employed in the work which was now performed by a subordinate.
 LORD HENRY PERCY  said, that the Admiralty was not provided with such an officer.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the subject was one that deserved attention. The prison regulations for the military prisons had been recently drawn up by a committee of gentlemen who had a large practical acquaintance with the dis-
 1766
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he hoped that if militia, whether English or Irish, were to be quartered in Ireland, they would not be billeted, but placed in barracks, as in the former case they would be exposed to great temptation from the Fenians and others.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he thought 5 s. 1768 s. d.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that where there were barracks the authorities invariably took care the militia should be quartered in them, and where soldiers were in possession that the barracks should be vacant at a convenient time when the militia were in training. But there were some places where there were no barracks. With regard to the quartermasters, it was quite possible that the terms upon which they obtained a retiring allowance might be taken into consideration. But the Royal Commission on Militia, which had made inquiries into the case, had issued no recommendations in their favour. He could not agree with the hon. and gallant Officer who thought that 5 s.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask for an explanation for the increase of the Vote for the clothing of the Militia from £115,000 last year to £175,514 this year, though the number of men was about the same in both years.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the clothes of the Militia regiments lasted generally five years; several regiments were embodied five years ago, which rendered it necessary now that they should be supplied with fresh clothing.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that some Yeomanry regiments were already armed with rifle carbines; but he was not aware that the stock was sufficient to arm the whole force. He rather thought it was not; but as the cavalry were by degrees armed with breech-loaders there would be a sufficient number of rifle carbines available for arming the Yeomanry Cavalry.
 COLONEL GILPIN  said, he wished to bring under the notice of the House the
 1770 s. s. d. s. d.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, this Vote represented the cheapest and most efficient
 1772
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, it might seem perfectly reasonable that these corps having earned the capitation grant should be permitted to spend it
 1773
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished for information as to the amount of £232,476 for gun factories, and as to the number and size of guns that were to be turned out of the Royal Factory this year. In the French Estimates the quantities of metal, &c, were given, and the number of guns that were to be made from those quantities. Such information as that was very desirable. At present they had not the means of knowing what the guns to be manufactured would cost.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask, how the sum of £172,974 taken for the Royal small arms factory was to be spent—whether in the manufacture of new arms or in the conversion of the Enfield rifles into breech-loaders?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that only a lump sum had been taken for the small arms factory, for the very reason that they did not yet know how that sum would be expended. If they should be so fortunate as to be able to decide on the matter of the new breechloader before the conclusion of the next
 1774
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to inquire how much of that Vote would be spent for the navy?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he did not know. He could not recollect that in any of the Estimates which he had seen any distinction was made as to the portion of the sum that was taken for the navy. If the right hon. Gentleman had given him notice he would have supplied him with the information.
 MR.SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he wished to ask the hon. Gentleman whether he proposed to make a general statement in explanation of the Civil Service Estimates when bringing them before the House?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was not usual to do so, and he therefore would not pledge himself to act upon the hon. Gentleman's suggestion. The Civil Service Estimates comprised so many different subjects that it would be impossible to deal with them in a single statement. Those Estimates would show an increase of between £100,000 and £200,000 only, which would be found to be connected with Public Buildings.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to be under some misapprehension respecting the Bill before the Committee. It had, in reality, nothing whatever to do either with the navy or with the Marines afloat. A certain number of Marines was voted annually for shore service, and they were under the same discipline as the army. The navy proper and the Marines afloat were under the Naval Discipline Act. The hon. Gentleman had quoted figures to show that the number of cases of flogging was very high. He might, however, inform the hon. Gentleman that, according to the last Returns, out of 8,566
 1785
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member whether he really thought the officers of the army and navy took a pleasure in flogging. They resorted to it only for the purpose of maintaining discipline, but Gentlemen opposite had a monopoly of humanity. If the hon. Gentleman and his Friends would move and carry an increase of the pay of soldiers and sailors, he would render it possible to procure a better class of men.
 MR. NEATE  said, he would be glad to support a Motion for better pay. The only way to compel the Government to bring forward a proposition to that effect was to force them by the abolition of such punishments not to rely on the low class of men who needed them.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had hoped that the discussion would be continued, not in reference to a question of money, but on the high moral principle in which it commenced. If it were merely a question between flogging and branding soldiers or sailors and increasing their pay, the former would undoubtedly be the more economical alternative. He thought the British army was not organized on a principle that recommended itself for good administration, and was by no means satisfactory. The object of flogging and branding was, perhaps, to supplement the incapacity of officers to perform the duties which devolved on them, and withdrawing the power of the lash would have the effect of securing more capable commanding officers. To listen to the remarks of the gallant Colonel opposite and other officers in that House one would fancy that the country existed for the army, and not the army for
 1786
 MR. HUNT  said, he had thought that the platform of the Radicals was "peace, retrenchment, and reform," but after the speech of the hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Neate) it was quite evident that "retrenchment" was excised from his platform; for he now proposed that there should be a greater expenditure, and as this increased expenditure was for the purpose of having a much better military force the hon. Member could not be in favour of "peace." The question of "Reform" was to come before the House on Monday, and it would not be surprising if not the slightest portion of the Radical platform were left after that day.
 MR. NEATE  said, he strenuously objected to be classed as a Radical.
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, that when the question of humanity was raised, hon. Members who sat on the ultra-Liberal Benches would not allow retrenchment to interfere. Flogging was a disgrace to the country. The son of the postmaster of the town he had the honour of representing died under the lash at Hounslow some years ago. But branding was even worse. He had been informed by experienced officers that men after being flogged were never worth anything again as a soldier.
 MR. REARDEN  said, he opposed the system of branding and flogging, as being repugnant to humanity, and because he thought more effectual remedies might be applied. He considered that soldiers could be much better governed by kindness than severity.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that corporal punishment was never inflicted by officers without the effects of kindness having been previously tried. No colonel had the power of inflicting corporal punishment on his own account. It must have been ordered by a court martial. He would ask, had nothing ever been heard about flogging in our gaols? Curious Returns on this point had been presented two or three years ago, from which it appeared that three boys had received forty-eight lashes of the cat-o'-nine tails for having torn the leaves out of their Prayer Book; but in the service, corporal punishment was now exceedingly rare.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that the punishment of flogging was now generally regarded as barbarous and out of date. No flogging was allowed in the Indian army. It had been abolished by Lord William Bentinck. As it would be scarcely alleged that the British soldier was inferior to the Sepoy, it would be difficult to maintain that English, Scotch, and Irish soldiers could not be managed without that punishment.
 MR. NEATE  said, that in reference to an observation of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt), he would ask that hon. Gentleman what became of the Conservative "platform" to-day?
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, that in these days when the maximum of corporal punishment which officers had power to inflict had been reduced from 150 lashes to fifty, the Hounslow case was no longer in point.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, that the arguments now used to keep up the fifty lashes were exactly similar to those which had been formerly used in support of 500, 800, and 1,000.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he wished to ask what were the duties of the superintendent of the machinery?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the item of machinery, although it appeared for the first time in the Estimates for the present year, was not a new item. Mr. Anderson, who was formerly assistant-superintendent of the gun manufactory, combined with that appointment the superintendence of the machinery, but now he had nothing to do with the guns, and devoted the whole of his attention to the machinery. He was a professional engineer and well qualified to enter into the details of machinery. The Prussian was the only nation he had ever heard of using a breech-loading rifle. This was well known to the War Department; but they would rather preserve the arms they had than have such a clumsy, awkward heavy weapon as the Prussian breech-loading rifle was deemed to be. The French and English Governments began to consider the subject at the same time, but the French had made no more progress than we had. It was a very difficult question; but he thought the experiments which had been going on during the last year would turn out not to have been altogether in vain.
 MR. CORRY  said, he should like to know what were the intentions of the War Office respecting those ships built on the broadside and those on the turret principle, which were to be furnished with 600-pounder guns?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that his noble Friend (Lord Elcho) was not quite correct in his remarks concerning small arms. The War Office had obtained a good pattern, and the money that had been expended upon it, he thought, had not been thrown away. The sum of £70 which had been offered to the gunmakers was not tendered as a reward, but for defraying the expense of preparing rifles for competition. The Government were prepared either to give a reward to any person who invented a satisfactory weapon, or else to employ him to a considerable extent in manufacturing rifles for the army. No doubt the sum of £70 was not sufficient to cover the expense to which a maker was put in preparing a specimen, and a larger sum would, therefore, be offered in the next competition. Every one knew that the Woolwich gun combined the system of Sir William Armstrong with a modification of the French system of rifling, to which Colonel Palliser had contributed more than any one else, and that officer had not made any complaint, nor expressed any dissatisfaction. He really did not know who were the inventors whose brains had been picked and whose inventions had been stolen. There were six 600-pounder guns included in the Estimate. One gun had been used in many experiments at Shoebury-
 1777
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he could not give to the hon. Baronet opposite (Sir Matthew Ridley) a detailed explanation of the item for the removal of stores, but it did not strike him as being excessive, for stores were being constantly landed and shipped at Woolwich, and, in fact, there was a movement going on amongst them during the whole day long. With regard to the Military Store Department, which was a most important one, and the officers of which were most meritorious and hard-working men, he supposed the remedy for the grievances complained of would be the assimilation of the Store Department and Commissariat Department; but such a proposition would involve, not a reduction of the Estimates, but a very considerable increase of them. The Commissariat Department was organized with higher grades of officers simply because the duties were considered by those who organized the Departments to be more responsible. If there bad been any considerable stagnation of promotion in the Store Department, it was owing to the fact that the re-organization in 1859 and 1861 placed a great many young men at the top of the service, and a number of old men at the bottom of it. The hardships resulting from these arrangements would be gradually remedied, but it was impossible to obviate them, In former times when a gentleman was appointed storekeeper he had little prospect of promotion; but now, although promotion was not rapid, the prospect of it was supplemented by other substantial advantages. He could not understand the case of a gentleman whose income had fallen from £500 to £300 a year, unless he had at some time received extra pay for the performance of extra duty.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he must express his regret that he could not give the hon. Baronet a more satisfactory answer, but he did not know in what way he could do it. He really did not know what horses were employed.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, if he could get the necessary information for the hon. Baronet in time he would give it with the Report. He did not propose to take any other Vote on the Army Estimates that night.
 MR. CORRY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary for the Admiralty, what was the latest hour at which he proposed to proceed with the Navy Estimates to-morrow night.
 COLONEL H. H. FANE  said, it was a curious fact, with reference to the capitation grant, that the more successful it had been the more anomalous had been its effect upon the regiments. Before the capitation grant was established the regiments were very much supported by honorary members, but when the capitation grant came into operation the effect was that nearly all the honorary members ceased subscribing, and a falling off in the revenue of the regiments had consequently taken place. The pressure that had been put on the entrance fee in various regiments had also had to be dropped, and in many the annual subscriptions had had to be reduced, and the consequence was that they had very little private income whatever. The items on which the capitation grant was expended were restricted to very few, and they were rather embarrassing to commanding officers when they had other expenses of great importance to meet. A very important item was that for the regimental bands. It was said that they were merely a source of amusement; but if the bands were reduced the men would neither come to drill nor march out. The Volunteers felt that at the end of the year, when they had earned their capitation grant, they ought to be at liberty to spend it as they liked. The grant could be credited to the funds of the regiment, the commanding officer would then spend it through his finance committee, and thus a great deal of disagreeable red tape would be done away with, and the advantage of the various corps at the same time promoted.
 COLONEL H. H. FANE  asked the Secretary of State for War, whether, looking at the great difficulty now experienced in officering the Militia, and the consequent necessity of getting officers from the half-pay of the Line and distant localities, he would be prepared to allow them travelling expenses beyond the boundaries of their several counties and to their  bonâ fide
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not press his Amendment to a division.
 MR. CARNEGIE  said, that the system of conscription brought more skilled labourers into the ranks in France than in England; and he did not see how the plan of having all the clothing made in the regiment could be carried into effect in this country. He thought no comparison could be drawn to any purpose between the French Estimates and our own. In our army regimental tailors were always fully employed in making repairs of the men's clothing; but if the clothing were to be made by them he believed it would turn out to be of no great value.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he thought the clothing of our soldiers should be well made, well fitting, and of the best materials, but it was important also that those clothes should be worn in the way that would be most conducive to their health. Not unfrequently sentinels might be seen in London in the depth of winter, when the weather was coldest, without their great coats, while in summer, on the hottest days, if there happened to be a little wet, the men were muffled up in their coats. He believed the men put them on and took them off by order, and those orders were not very judiciously given.
 LORD ELCHO  said, his point with reference to the manufacture of these small arms was, that since the Committee reported some years ago the War Office had manufactured over 100 stands of an arm which was inferior to that recommended, although the requisite alteration in the machinery could have been made at the expense of a few shillings.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that with reference to the question of the increased pay of the inspectors there could be no doubt that they were posts which were very much sought after by the officers of the army. It was satisfactory to know that although there was an increase this year in this Vote it was not in the staff, but in the effective of the force. The increase of £1,200 in the capitation grant represented that so many more men had this year joined the force, or that the men in the force had earned the extra 10 s.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that he had on a former occasion called the attention of the House to the subject of the manufacture of small arms. A Committee was appointed to decide between the several systems of rifling, and two years ago they recommended the adoption of a particular principle; but instead of attending to that recommendation, the War Office had gone on for the last two years steadily ignoring the recommendations of their own Select Committee. A Vote was passed annually for the manufacture of arms which had been condemned by that Committee. He protested against the argument of the noble Lord, that because other nations had not got a breech-loading rifle we were justified in remaining in our present position. Prussia had for the last twenty years been armed with breech-loaders, and
 1776
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  asked the Secretary of State for War, if it would not, in his opinion, facilitate recruiting for the army if appointments in the Civil Service, up to the value of 25 s. 1748
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he could not exactly say. The only Vote which was likely to lead to discussion he proposed to defer to the next occasion.
 LORD HOTHAM  said, that the subject had come under the notice of a Commission of which he was the president, and they made a distinct recommendation to the Government. He believed, if the War Office would act upon that recommendation a little more extensively, one of the present difficulties in the way of recruiting would be put an end to.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he was afraid the Committee would be somewhat misled by the statement that in the French army the soldiers made all their own clothes except the eagles on their uniforms and their shakos. The fact was that each French regiment consisted of three battalions; and each battalion furnished a certain number of workmen who remained at the depôt, and did, no doubt, make a great proportion of the clothing. Practically, there were three small clothing establishments con-
 1754
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he begged to supplement the statement of the hon. Baronet by observing that the only pension a militia quartermaster could get was 3s. a day, and that he could only obtain after ten years' uninterrupted service in an embodied regiment. The cost to the country would be but small if a retiring pension were given them on easier terms. There were also two petty economies practised with regard to these men which were unworthy of the country, while they involved great hardship to the men. In the first place, though all quartermasters in the army were entitled to 6 s. d. s. d. s. s. s.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the horses of cavalry regiments lately sent to Ireland have been removed from England to that country; and, if so, whether this was not in violation of the Orders in Council for the prevention of the introduction of the Cattle Plague into the latter country?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board
 1708 Eagle Speed
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Is the President of the Board of Trade aware that six or seven coolie emigration ships have been lost, and that 1,200 lives were thus sacrificed?
 MR. BATHURST  said, be wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he intends to introduce a Bill on the subject of the Thames Navigation, as recommended by the Select Committee; whether he is aware that the Thames and Severn Railway Bill seeks power to convey the water pumped from the Thames Head Springs by a culvert into the watershed of the Severn; and whether it should be left
 1710
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not quite understand the noble Marquess. He should have thought that where one person alone supplied an article, it would be very difficult to secure competition; whereas, he understood the noble Lord to put a case where, with a great many persons supplying an article, it would be difficult to secure competition. If the circumstances had been exactly reversed they would perhaps have brought about the conclusion the noble Lord wished the Committee to adopt.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he did not think the explanation of the noble Marquess threw any light on the matter. Why should the noble Marquess assume that there was only a limited number of persons who could sup-
 1757
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I wish to offer a few observations to the House before it comes to a decision on the proposal to read this Bill a second time. I conclude that this Bill has been introduced in consequence of the opinion of the late Parliament, and the vote that was given in favour of the measure of the right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell). I thought at the time there were very strong objections to that Bill, the purport of which was to abolish and then re-construct what has been called the Roman Catholic oath—the oath taken by the Roman Catholic Members of this House. I thought, Sir, and I believe it is very generally felt by Members on both sides of the House, that it would have been advantageous that such a question should have been settled by the Government of the day. There were many also who were of opinion that the time at which the right hon. Gentleman's Bill was introduced was by no means felicitous; that it was, in fact, inopportune, and liable to a misinterpretation, which, however, I did not myself put upon it. But, irrespective of these objections, there was a very general opinion that the Motion was an impolitic one. There is no doubt that in the Roman Catholic oath there are some things that are obsolete, and some things that are invidious. If we were to construct an oath in this country  de novo, 1713 1714 1715 "I will be faithful, and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and her will defend to the utmost of my power." 1716 1717 1718 in foro conscientiœ, 1719 1720
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he had to present to the House considerably more than 100 petitions from Churchmen and Dissenters—Protestant Dissenters from the Church of England. He had examined the whole of them, and believed them to be genuine. The petitioners objected to the removal of those portions of the present Roman Catholic oath which were proposed to be abrogated by the Oaths Bill now before the House.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said: I watched the contest, which lasted for eleven years, on the subject of the Parliamentary Oaths, with very great anxiety, and I hope that I may be permitted to make a few observations upon the debate, as hitherto continued. I have been anxious to hear the statement of Her Majesty's Government, for I think that with them rests the  onus probandi 1728 1729 1730 1731 1732 1733 1734
 COLONEL TOTTENHAM  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether it is his intention to introduce a measure this Session applying the principle of Union Rating to that part of the United Kingdom?
 MR. HUNT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department a question respecting a Bill that had gone up to the other House—the Cattle Plague Bill. He understood that the Bill was likely to be returned to the House that night, with certain Amendments; and inasmuch as the Courts of Quarter Session are waiting to see the law before making new orders, he wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, Whether he will undertake that the Lords' Amendments will be considered to-morrow?
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down did not appreciate duly the functions of the Judge Advocate, who was the legal adviser of the Government. He might as well propose to make the Attorney and Solicitor Generals permanent officers. It was a question, however, for the Government to determine whether the Judge Advocate should not be relieved from his  quasi
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that he was requested by the officers of the several corps of Volunteer Engineers to call the attention of the House to the fact that while the Volunteer Engineers only received the same capitation grant as the members of the other branches of the Volunteer service, their expenses were far heavier. This he considered a real grievance. They had to pay for land hired for the purposes of engineering drill, for the material required for gabions and bastions, for the transport of materials for engineering works, and for additional store accommodation. In addition to these items, when any stores supplied by Government were lost the Engineer officers had to defray the expense; and, they were compelled to wear a scarlet uniform, which was very expensive. They asked from the Government an additional grant of £1 a head per annum, and as the entire number of Volunteer Engineers was 2,500 the increase would entail an additional expense to the country of only £2,500 a year. It might be said that the present was not the time to in crease the amount of the Estimates. In answer to that objection, he would call the attention of the House to the fact that several Yeomanry corps to which grants would be voted would not be called out for active service during the present year. He thought that a portion of the surplus fund thus obtained ought to be given to that most deserving branch of the Volunteer body, the Engineers.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, he thought it unusual, when the House was in Committee of Supply on the Army Estimates, to have Gentlemen propose that the pay of a certain class of officers should be increased. Complaints had been made of the Army Estimates not being lower than they now were, and the present was not the time to increase the salaries of any class of officers. The post of inspector of Volunteers was an excellent staff appointment. The inspectors of Volunteers were, no doubt, a very valuable body of men, but it was an appointment that officers in the army were glad to obtain. The pay was of very little importance in comparison
 1771
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to inquire, respecting the item of £11,682 for deodorizing and emptying cesspools, whether any uniform system had been followed by those who did the work. Would the system practised at Knightsbridge be extended to other barracks?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that it was not his intention to take part in the discussion so far as it related to the oath of 1829, because he considered that was a question beyond the jurisdiction of the House. It was now a part of the Constitution as much as the Act of Settlement. The House had no legal power to pass the Bill now before them. Having regard to the circumstances under which it was passed, the modification of the Act of Settlement contained in the measure which it was sought to repeal by the present Bill became a part of the Constitution of the country. The question that there should be one uniform oath or not was a question the House ought to be qualified to discuss, although it seemed to him to re-open the question of oaths quite unnecessarily But, assuming that the House did pass the second reading of this Bill, he intended to move that it be referred to a Select Committee for the purpose of inquiring into and reporting under what circumstances the present oath for Roman Catholic Members had been enacted, and what new circumstances now required its repeal The oath of 1829 had been deliberately agreed to by the Roman Catholic Members, and he really could not see what cause of com-
 1735 A cry of
 MR. WHALLEY : He thanked the Speaker for calling attention to that interruption of a Member who was endeavouring to do his duty. Let him remind them of the first occasion on which that un-Parliamentary expression was raised, and was continued in a manner which rendered it impossible for him to make himself heard. He begged leave to remind them that the first occasion on which that invocation was used was in the year 1862. He had then denounced the spirit of Fenianism which was taking root, as shown by the proceedings in Dublin, emanating from students of Maynooth, on the occasion of the marriage of the Prince of Wales. He said before the outbreak of the American War that Fenianism was fostered in America by Archbishop Hughes, and that it was instigated and sustained as a portion of their duty by the Roman Catholic clergy in Ireland. On every occasion of rebellion in 1848, in 1798, and in 1642—the Roman Catholic clergy secretly or openly favoured the rebels. At the present moment there was Fenianism in the army, as might naturally he expected from the character of the books placed in the hands of the soldiers. If he got a Select Committee he would undertake to prove that Fenianism was Romanism, and nothing else; that it had down to a recent period been instigated by the Roman Catholic clergy, that it penetrated to the army, and that none of our institutions were safe from it. If a Select Committee were appointed, it would
 1736
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he had given notice of a Motion to refer the Bill to a Select Committee, but after what had just taken place, he need not trouble the House to divide again. He would only appeal to Her Majesty's Government, assuring them that since last Session he had come into possession of facts which proved that the disasters our troops sustained in New Zealand, and the disgrace which had befallen
 1737
 MR. BARNETT  said, he wished to inquire whether it was contemplated to supply the Yeomanry Cavalry generally with an improved modern pattern of carbines. He understood that several regiments were so supplied while others were not. He was aware that to a great extent the cavalry soldier was chiefly dependent on his sword, and that there was not time when the Yeomanry Cavalry were called out to do much more than practice that weapon. Inasmuch, however, as they were often employed for skirmishing duty, it might be worth while to give them a more efficient weapon
 1769
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he quite agreed with the hon. Member for Maldon, that as £6,000 could be dispensed with in the Vote for the Yeomanry for this year, in consequence of the prevalence of the rinderpest in many counties, that sum could not be better disposed of than upon the Engineer Volunteers, whose expenses were necessarily much heavier than other Volunteer corps. He could bear testimony to the efficient services that the Artillery Volunteers were prepared to render, in the event of their being called out, in defence of their Queen and country.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, that during the last fifty years the weapon employed by the Prussian army was the needle-gun, which at one time was highly estimated by the military authorities. Latterly, however, it had become unsuitable for the requirements of the field. He believed, that if Her Majesty's Government would offer a sufficient reward for the best breechloader, the gunmakers of England would produce a weapon quite superior to anything yet accomplished.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he rose to call attention to this case. He thought further inquiry into it was demanded, not only in the interest of Mr. Ferguson himself, but also in that of the public. He had given notice to call attention to the case on Monday last, but finding that the magistrate at Greenwich had committed the unfortunate gentleman for trial he had postponed his Notice, and had added to it a notice of Motion for certain Returns that would throw light on the matter. The case was one of great hardship. The facts had appeared in the newspapers, and he might be allowed, perhaps, shortly to allude to them. It appeared that this gentleman, Mr. Ferguson, lived in the neighbourhood of Greenwich. He was a professor of music, and was passing quietly to his home, about two o'clock, a few nights ago, after fulfilling a professional engagement which necessitated his being out to a late hour. He had occasion on his way to pass along one of the suburban roads leading from the Crystal Palace, where be was accosted by
 1738 1739 "26, St. Aubyn's Road, Upper Norwood, Surrey, March 6, 1866. "Sir,—Seeing by the papers that you have kindly taken an interest in my case, I take the liberty of enclosing you an account of the whole transaction. "After playing at Mr. Noake's party, on my way home, and while walking from Sydenham to Upper Norwood, I observed a rough-looking man loitering on the roadside. As I passed I bade him 'Good morning.' I wore a dark grey Inverness cape, black felt hat, and long shining leather knickerbockers, or leggings, up to my knees. I carried in one hand a small silk umbrella, closed; in the other my portfolio of music (not a bag as described in the papers), with a strap round it, hung on my finger and quite visible, as when walking on these occasions I always throw back the outside cape for convenience. When some yards past the man I heard him following me. The road became more lonely as I advanced. I considered he had a design on me, and quickened my pace. Finding he did the same and was gaining on me I felt much alarmed, and concluded he was a garrotter coming on to attack me Hoping to gain the Crystal Palace Police Station, which was quite convenient, I ran for my life, He overtook me, and seized me by the arm. To intimidate him I threatened to blow his brains out, although having no firearms. I was knocked down and struck while on the ground. He afterwards seized me by the neck. I struggled hard to get from him. I told him I would give him my property, and that I was a musician. He continued to beat and drag me about. After a long and desperate struggle, and finding my strength failing, and that he was trying to knock me down again, I considered he was about to murder me. I thought of my dear wife and children and became mad with terror and despair, and shouting 'I shall not be murdered and taken from them,' struck out in defence of my life. After some struggling I got free and ran to the opposite side of the road. Finding him following, and believing my property and life to be his object, I took out my watch and chain, laid them on the pathway and said,' There, take them; take all; but do not touch me.' [All this time I continually shouted 'murder," police.'] In order to get a barrier of defence and in the hope of the inmates of the house assisting me, I sprang over a garden gate. Seeing him approach I presented my knife, threatening to shoot him if he came near me. After some time two constables in uniform came up, when I immediately cried out to them, I charge that man with attacking me on the highway; take him into custody.' I got over the gate, and to my surprise was seized by one of the constables, was roughly handled, and marched bareheaded to Sydenham Police Station. It was not till after the police came up to the gate I discovered he was not a garrotter, but a policeman in disguise. After being locked up in a cell I was from that time treated with every indignity, at times handcuffed, stripped naked, my person minutely examined, even to the inside of my mouth. Locked up at night in a cold cell, with open window and insufficient covering, and this in intensely cold weather; and not allowed to see my friends except through a double wirework, with small apartment between, and an officer present. "With grateful thanks for your noble efforts in the cause of justice and humanity, I have the honour to be, Sir, your truly obliged humble servant, JOSEPH FERGUSON," 1740 1741 "A constable being out of his precinct arrested a woman whose name was Anne Dekins; one Fooley took her part, and in the heat of the fray killed the assistant of the constable. Being prosecuted for murder, he alleged in his defence that the illegality of the imprisonment was a sufficient provocation to make the homicide excusable and entitle him to the benefit of his clergy. The jury, having settled the matter of fact, left the criminality of it to be decided by the Judge by returning a special verdict. The cause was adjourned to the King's Bench, and thence again to Serjeant's Inn for the opinion of the twelve Judges, Here follows the opinion delivered by Chief Justice Holt in giving judgment—If one be imprisoned upon an unlawful authority, it is a sufficient provocation to all people out of compassion, much more so when it is done under the colour of justice, and when the liberty of the subject is invaded it is a provocation to all the subjects of England." "Is not lawful even for a legal constable to take up a woman upon bare suspicion only, having been guilty of no breach of the peace, nor any unlawful act." "Where a private Act authorized watchmen to apprehend nightwalkers, malefactors, and sus-
 1742 Treatise on Crimes, "It has been considered that the taking up of a person in the night as a nightwalker and disorderly person, though by a lawful officer, would be illegal if the person so arrested were innocent, and there were no reasonable grounds of suspicion to mislead the officer." "If any person attempt to rob or murder another in or near the highway or in a dwelling-house, or attempt to break any dwelling-house in the night time, and be killed in the attempt, the slayers shall be acquitted and discharged."—24  Henry ale's Pleas of the Crown, Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, Hale, Braeton, Kelynge's Report, Hale's Pleas of the Crown, 1743
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it would be his duty in a very few days to introduce the Bill alluded to by the noble Lord, but its provisions would be very different from those which had been described. So far from tending to infringe any vested interests, the Bill aimed at discovering, by a judicial process, what rights actually existed. Commissioners would be appointed to examine all rights existing in connection with the Curragh, and from their decisions an appeal would lie to the highest court in Ireland. When the Bill was brought in the noble Lord would see that it was really an attempt to remove a scandal of the present condition of the Cuaragh, and he hoped that meanwhile the merits of that measure would not be prematurely discussed.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, in reply, that the question had already been under the consideration of the Government; he hoped that he should be able to introduce a measure giving effect to the recommendation of the Special Commissioners of Fisheries.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, in reply, that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce this Session a measure with reference to Union Rating.
 MR. DYCE NICOL  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether, in the present unsatisfactory state of the Law in respect to the management of the Poor in Scotland, and the heavy and increasing expense of litigation connected therewith,
 1709
 MR. WHITE  said, he could not share in the admiration which had been expressed by hon. Members of the Pimlico establishment. He held it to be a reproach to Great Britain that the Government were compelled to manufacture the tunics and trousers worn by the soldiers. It might be alleged that the contractors did their work badly; but if that were true it was evidence that there was something wrong in the Department specially dealing with those matters.
 1752 1753
 MR. BLAKE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether he intends moving for leave to introduce a Bill to give effect to the recommendation of the Special Commissioners for Irish Fisheries, as contained in their Report for 1865?
 MR. SPEAKER  said, that he heard an expression which was not Parliamentary; he begged it might not be repeated.
 COLONEL NORTH , said he wished to ask why the amount of the Vote was smaller than last year?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he wished to inquire what the "consolidated allowances" alluded to in one of the items consisted of?
 COLONEL NORTH  said he did not think the force in China had been reduced.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he did not mean to say that the adjutants were overpaid, but there could be no doubt that the inspectors were underpaid. They ranked as field-officers and received only 9 s. d.
 COLONEL WILSON-PATTEN  said, he would beg to ask, On what day the adjournment of the House for the Easter Recess will be moved?
 MR. OLIPHANT  desired to call attention to grievances complained of by the officers of the Military Store Department, in which there was a stagnation without parallel—indeed it seemed to proceed on an inversion of the ordinary principle, so that the longer men had been in the service the lower seemed to be their rank, There was no one among the colonels who had served so long as the lieutenant-colonels, nor of the lieutenant-colonels so long as the majors, nor they so long as the captains, while the lieutenants had served longest of all. There was one officer who, at the average rate of promotion, would have to serve actively seventy-three years and reach the age of 110 before he could attain a higher rank. There were anomalies in pay as well as in promotion, and a man who once had £500 a year had steadily risen until his income now was £300 a year. Under such an extraordinary state of things, there could be no wonder that there were great complaints in all the ranks of that service with the exception of the upper rank. The Department contrasted most unfavourably in these respects with the Commissariat Department, and he was sure that an improvement would promote a better feeling than now existed, and would be attended with advantageous results. He gave notice that he should move for the following Returns:—Of the names of the officers of the Military Store Department; departmental grade; relative rank; length of service, distinguishing the periods served in each grade, including the time passed
 1778
 MR. M. MORRIS  said, he was anxious to direct attention to another point connected with barrack accommodation at Galway. They had already discussed and admitted the right of the military authorities to act as tradesmen; but he could not bring himself to believe that the War Department engaged with propriety in agricultural operations. Yet, what was the fact? Ten or twelve years ago, in the western province of Ireland, they acquired from a fund established for charitable purposes possession of a plot of land, with the object, as was then stated, of erecting barracks upon it. From that day to the present they had never erected any buildings of such a character on the land which they thus obtained under false pretences. On the contrary, they re-let it to an under tenant for agricultural purposes. They had even established a salmon fishery and let it to a tenant, but that was found to be illegal and was suppressed. Perhaps the next thing they did would be to lay down an oyster bed. This land had been, in fact, obtained under false pretences. Their operations had been attended with another very remarkable result. They asked the Midland Great Western Company to make a deviation from their line as originally laid down in order not to interfere with the proposed barrack accommodation; the company opposed that demand, alleging, through their secretary, that they saw no indication of any serious intention to construct a barrack; but Colonel Luard having sworn that that work was to be forthwith commenced, the company, after having appealed in self-defence to the legal tribunals, were defeated. The Board of Ordnance, backed by the public purse, opposed, unless they agreed to widen a road nearly a mile in length from the barracks into the town. The road was made at an expense of several thousand pounds, which ultimately fell on the rate-payers of the district. This had taken place in 1855, but the barracks had not yet been built; and when recently it became necessary to send troops to Galway, where for the last ten or twelve years no soldiers had been seen except on furlough, there
 1761
 MR. M. MORRIS  said, that there should have been.
 MR. M. MORRIS  said, that he did not complain of the ground having been bought, but that the barracks had not been commenced. He was of opinion that, taking into consideration the number of the people of Galway, and the size of the province of which it was the capital, barracks should be erected there on the land bought for the purpose. As matters stood, the War Department seemed to have fallen asleep over the matter.
 MR. THOMAS CAVE  said, he had visited in 1859 the convict establishment at Kingston, in Canada, where at least 1,000 convicts were confined, and was informed that the prisoners were hired out annually by auction to the highest bidder to be employed in various kinds of labour. By this system, in addition to the whole cost of the establishment, including their maintenance, being defrayed, the Government cleared a profit of £40 a day, being 10 d.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, it is my intention to introduce a Bill on the subject of the Thames Navigation as recommended by the Select Committee. I am aware that the Thames and Severn Canal Navigation Bill contains certain provisions with respect to the use of water from the Thames Head Springs. As it is a disputed question whether the effect of those provisions will be to divert water from the Thames, and as it is also a disputed question whether the Company have or have not a vested right to the water they are proposing to use, I think that the Bill is one which ought to be dealt with by a Select Committee, before whom these questions may be investigated. I also am informed that the Conservators of the Thames have petitioned against and intend to oppose the Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I cannot state the exact number of vessels that were lost, but it is an over-statement to say that 10 per cent of the coolies embarked in the emigrant ships were drowned.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, the health of Coolie emigrants on the voyage from India to the Mauritius and the West Indies has been a constant subject of anxiety to the Indian and the Home Governments. From 1856 to 1859 the mortality was very large, and greater precautions were taken by the Indian Government, and the mortality decreased till within the last two years. In those two years the mortality has again increased; the cause of the deaths was a typhoid fever, but what the cause of this fever was has not, in spite of repeated inquiries, been distinctly ascertained. The Indian Government are, however, making further inquiries with the view of taking every precaution. In the wreck of the  Eagle Speed, Fusileer, Sandringham, Eagle Speed.
 MR. COGAN  said, he could corroborate the statement of the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth as to the feeling excited in Ireland by the threatened measure of the Government. He trusted that the noble Marquess the Secretary for War would be able to assure the Committee that the influence of a great public department like the Department of Woods and Forests would not be brought to bear unjustly and harshly against poor commoners, who would be without power of resistance. The common rights of those dwellings on the borders of the Curragh had been seriously encroached upon by the formation of the camp at the Curragh; but, recognizing the importance of the public object involved, they submitted without remonstrance to the sacrifice of some of their private rights. Now, however, it was proposed to extinguish rights which had existed for centuries, and some even that were guaranteed by charter dating from the reign of Charles.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he wished to draw attention to the Report, by Colonel Henderson, on Military Prisons in 1864, in which the erection of a prison at Aldershot was recommended. He could himself speak of the necessity of a new military prison at Aldershot. At the same time, he was very glad that the new prison had not been built. He had been told by a good authority that in the military prisons in France the practice was to utilize the whole of the prison labour. Now, any one who had gone through our military prisons must have been struck with the amount of useless labour performed. One gang of prisoners were made to carry shot and to pile it up at one end of the yard, and another gang were sent to unpile it. The Governor at Aldershot had assured him that if he were permitted to utilize the prison labour the prisoners might earn easily their entire subsistence. Shot-drill produced a kind of sulky acquiescence in an occupation which went, as nearly as possible, to turn a man into a brute. The prisoner came out a weaker, and not a stronger man; and as soon as he returned to the ranks he took the first opportunity of having a drink. The result
 1765
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, that by means of the Pimlico store system they had obtained an efficient check over their supervisors, and the consequence was that they had a very good class of supervisors now. Every article was stamped, not only with the store stamp, but the number of the supervisor. The consequence was that every article, whether at home or abroad, that did not wear well, could be reported upon, so that the defaulting supervisor could be reached, and good supervisors obtained. The hon. and gallant Colonel advocated retrenchment, but he might say that they had already reduced the price of clothing enormously, and that if anything took them back to the old system, which was only upset by the Crimean War, they would get back to a system as rotten as the clothes it produced.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I have listened to the greater part of the right hon. Gentleman's speech with considerable satisfaction, because it shows the great advance which has taken place in public opinion since the debates which took place towards the close of the last Session. The right hon. Gentleman has said, in reference to the Bill, that it deals with no real grievance. On that point I must express my dissent. It is true there is no real grievance, if real grievance means the exclusion of Roman Catholics from Parliament, because they come here taking the oath imposed on the Members of their faith. But what is now acknowledged by the right hon. Gentleman to be the case with regard to that oath? That it does contain passages needlessly offensive and insulting to the Roman Catholics, and they are bound to repeat these words as a condition of their coming here. They are obliged to declare that they abjure doctrines which they repudiate as honestly as any other class of Her Majesty's subjects, and they are also obliged to assert that they take the oath without any equivocation or mental reservation. Now, I think that is a real grievance. The right hon. Gentleman is quite correct in saying that in a discussion which took place on the Bill of my right hon. Friend (Mr. Monsell) an opinion was expressed on both sides of the House that it was desirable not only that subject should be dealt with by Government, but that the principle on which we should attempt to legislate should be the establishment of one uniform oath to be taken by all Members. I expressed my concurrence in that opinion, and that Bill came so near to a uniform oath that if it had received the sanction of Parliament the necessary consequence would have been the adoption of a uniform oath. This is the principle on which the Government
 1722 1723 1724 1725
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was sorry the hon. Gentleman had thought it necessary to make the statement he had, because the matter was now the subject of a judicial investigation, and he (Sir George Grey) was consequently prevented from making such a reply as he otherwise should have done. He therefore hoped hon. Members would not take the statement which had been made by the hon. Member for Dudley, avowedly derived from the newspapers, as a correct version of what took place on the occasion referred to. [Mr. H. B. SHERIDAN said, he had read Mr. Ferguson's letter to the House.]] The hon. Gentleman had also criticized Mr. Traill's conduct upon the same information; but he should remind the hon. Gentleman that Mr. Traill had all the facts before him and acted upon evidence given on oath. The policeman was an inmate of Guy's Hospital Buffering from the wounds inflicted upon him by Mr. Ferguson. Mr. Traill went there and took what was then supposed to be the deposition of a dying man, and it was in consequence of that and the statement of the surgeon that the policeman's life was in imminent danger that Mr. Traill considered it to be his duty to remand Mr. Ferguson, the person charged with inflicting the wounds, for a week. At the end of that week, there being every prospect that the policeman would recover, Mr. Ferguson was admitted to bail, and had been out of custody for the last fortnight, and it was now doubtful if he would be committed for trial. The hon. Gentleman said—and it showed how incorrectly
 1745 1746 sub judice, 1747 ex parte
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he understood that the Bill had been referred to a Select Committee of their Lordships, and that many notices of Amendments had been given. It would be quite impossible, there-
 1711
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to urge upon the Government the expediency of giving the soldier employment in the way of making articles for his own use.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, I would not have followed the right hon. Gentleman had it not been for a certain degree of inaccuracy in his remarks as to what occurred last summer, and also as to the observations made by my right hon. Friend (Mr. Disraeli). I will remind the House exactly of what took place last summer. The right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell) then brought forward a Bill to alter the form of the Roman Catholic oath, not proposing a uniform oath to be taken by all Members of that House. The right hon. Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) then rose in his place and said it would be extremely desirable to have a uniform oath for all Members. My right hon. Friend the Member for Bucks—with the concurrence of a large number of Members, if not of the majority—concurred in that opinion. He then said—
 "You do not propose this; you propose an oath which is to be taken by one section of the House, composed of Members professing a particular religion; but I object in principle to tampering with the oath which has been resolved upon two solemn occasions to be most proper to be taken by Members belonging to that section." 1726 1727
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to call the attention of the noble Lord to the case of a very deserving class of militia officers—namely, the militia quartermasters. The War Office must be fully aware of the great advantages that had resulted from the changes which had already been introduced into this branch of the service, as while there was considerable difficulty in recruiting for the army, recruits were easily obtained for the militia, and the men were always anxious to be re-en rolled, and it was therefore a pity to permit a grievance that might easily be remedied to remain. The quartermasters of the military were chosen from among the old non-commissioned officers of the regular army, and on their appointment to a militia regiment they received altogether, including their pension of 2 s. s. s. 1767
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, in reply, that it was his intention to bring forward his Motion on the 13th instant; he would that evening lay on the table the form of the Resolution he intended to move.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the item of £5,500 for "Hire of horses, Woolwich, for the Removal of Stores," He thought it very large.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he would be satisfied if the noble Lord would reserve the Vote for a future occasion or give the information on the bringing up of the Report.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, the answer to his question was not quite satisfactory. He had come to the conclusion that the item of £5,500 for the conveyance of guns was an unreasonable one, considering the really admirable way in which the surface of the road over which the guns were conveyed was kept, and its great hardness. The noble Lord suggested that it was possible he might not have been at Wool-
 1779
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, he wished to call attention to the subject of promotions. The warrant laid down in the tenth paragraph that the primary ground for promotion should be personal merit as exhibited by zeal, ability, and general good conduct, as well as length of service. That, in his opinion, was very vague. It was not desirable that promotion in the whole Department should depend primarily upon the option of the Secretary of State for the time being. He hoped the question would be considered, and that a portion at least of the promotions would be ordered according to seniority, as was the case in other departments.
 MR. CHAMBERS  said, he agreed in everything that had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) upon that subject. He also concurred in many of the statements of his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate); and if that were a Bill merely for altering the Roman Catholic oath he should go into the lobby with his hon. Friend. But that was not the question then before them. The issue raised at present was whether it was desirable that one form of oath should be taken by all the Members of the House; and if such an oath could he framed a great advantage would, in his opinion, be gained by such a change. He did not approve of the form of oath proposed in the Bill; and he would recommend his hon. Friend to oppose the clauses of the measure in Committee, but not to divide the House on the occasion of the second reading.
 MR. CHAMBERS  said, he would beg to ask, whether the attention of the Home Secretary has been called to the serious inconvenience caused to the inhabitants of the Metropolis by the refusal of the Magistrates of Middlesex and other neighbouring counties to allow manure to cross the boundaries of their districts?
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that having looked into the Vote for many years he found it to be completely under the control of the Government, because there were no means of drawing a comparison between the articles manufactured by them and those supplied by a private contractor. It would be much more satisfactory if instead of giving the cost of the tunics, and boots and shoes in a lump sum, the price of each article was furnished. The cost involved in the wear and tear of their establishment was not, he might add, included in the Vote, while it was always taken into account by private firms. He thought it would be advisable that the Government should not manufacture so much, though he was quite ready to admit that the army was now far better clothed than formerly.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  wished to know why this large sum had been lumped together? He observed that £73,000 for musketry-drill, &c, was one of the items mentioned in it. His hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Berks had called attention to the subject of musketry instruction, and pointed out its expense. He should like to ask the noble Marquess to state clearly what was the expense of this musketry instruction. It would be well if all the items connected with it were placed side by side, so that they might see what was expended on it in the army. In page 14 there were charges of £1,065 and £598 for captain-instructors of musketry and assistant-instructors of musketry, in addition to regimental pay. Then, there was this Vote, which included "musketry;" but it was impossible to say how much belonged to musketry and how much did not. On page 32 there was £1,000 charged as
 "Allowance to officers and non-commissioned officers while under instruction at Hythe, Fleetwood, and Shoeburyness or in the regiments of the Line."
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, the country would not be satisfied with the information given as to the manufacture of small arms. He took a very great interest in the small arms factory, and was most anxious to know with what weapon our soldiers were to be armed. The Government had lately tried one pattern, the Enfield, that had signally failed, and now they were about to try another, the Snider, but what guarantee had they that it would answer any better than those that went before? A breech-loading rifle had been adopted by the army of a powerful nation on the Continent. [The Marquess of HARTINGTON: What army?] The Prussian. Such rifles were used in the late war by the soldiers of Prussia, and he believed they had them before that period, while England, the richest nation in the world, in the 19th century, was without a breech-loading rifle for her troops. It might be true that the best kind of rifle had not yet been found out, but one had been invented which was much better than
 1775
 MR. HENLEY  said, that was true. But the right hon. Gentleman took care to designate pretty clearly who he considered to be capable of receiving an injury. He said, "What is a weekly tenant?" He could be got rid of by the landlord in a week, and he had no legal status to bring him into the magnificent category which, according to the right hon. Gentleman, was to entitle him to compensation. He was not one of those who thought that this difficult subject could be met very easily. He was quite sure, however, that the proposition of the hon. Member for Lambeth would increase the difficulties a thous and fold. Still, he would be very l0th to say that there were not minds in the House which would be brought to bear on the subject, so as, if not to remove the difficulties altogether, at all events to alleviate them to a considerable degree and remove many of the inconveniencies and hardships to which these people must be more or less subjected. He hoped the hon. Member for Lambeth would consent to have the matter referred to a Committee; and although he knew the question was beset with difficulties, he hoped that a Bill would be framed providing residences for the labouring people whose houses were swept away by railway companies. Let them not go into that matter with a foregone conclusion that they could do no good, and must leave these persons to sink or swim as the case might be, when, from the experience of the last few years, it was very plain that they had very little chance of swimming, and that many of them had suffered the greatest possible inconvenience.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, he thought it was of no use telling a man that he was entitled to compensation for an injury done to him if he had no chance of receiving it. These poor persons had not received any compensation hitherto, and were not likely to do so in future if the House
 1801
 LORD STANLEY  said, he quite sympathized with the feelings which had prompted the hon. Member for Lambeth in bringing forward the question, but thought the Standing Orders which he had proposed were liable to very grave objection, and, whether so intended or not, would create something like a new law of property. Under those Standing Orders, if a new railway company obtained power from Parliament to pull down a particular street, for the buildings Be demolished it must not only give compensation to their owners, but must provide new houses for the inhabitants of that street. But the nest street, which might belong to a private owner who
 1802
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped that the hon. Member for Lambeth would adopt the suggestion of his hon. and gallant Friend
 1800
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that arrangements were now being made with the view of sending some native troops, consisting probably of rifle regiments, to Hong Kong in order to release the troops at present stationed there. A great part of the duties of the troops there were of a police character, and he should shortly have an opportunity of stating what arrangements would be made; but inasmuch as the troops were employed in duties which could be more properly performed by local police or by a native force, steps would be taken to relieve our troops from the performance of such duties.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished to know whether any general instruction has been issued to the Constabulary respecting these matters?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, he had no objection to give the Returns mentioned in the first part of the Question. With reference to the second part of the Question, the noble Lord was aware that the correspondence had only recently taken place, and, as it was now under the consideration of a Select Committee, he must decline to produce it pending the inquiry.
 MR. TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the fact that the clerks of the Inspector General of Imports and Exports have applied to the Board of Customs for liberty to forward a Petition to the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, praying for a re-consideration of a Petition presented in May last, with a view to giving them a more substantial benefit than was afforded by the recent Treasury Minute upon Customs Salaries; and whether such permission has been refused?
 MR. TORRENS : I put no Notice on the Paper at four o'clock on Tuesday.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, he had no objection to produce the correspondence, but that he could not
 1808
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  was understood to say that he believed he should be able to lay a Bill for the expurgation of Obsolete Statutes on the table soon after Easter.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, he wished to know, whether the right hon. Gentleman intends to introduce a Bill founded on the recommendations of the Committee upstairs, which would meet such a case as that to which he referred—of a Union which considered itself out of the jurisdiction of the Poor Law Board?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, that he hoped to be able to bring in a Bill for the consolidation and amendment of the Bankruptcy Law immediately after Easter.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he believed the Bill was now printed, and that the hon. Member might obtain a copy of it if he pleased.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the Bill contained only one or two verbal alterations, and he considered that sufficient notice had been given.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he would suggest the desirability of setting informers to work. He was of opinion that if informers were pitted against the smoke, the one nuisance would soon destroy the other. What was wanted was the infliction and enforcement of heavy penalties.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman has already spoken.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was sorry his hon. and gallant Friend had been prevented by the rules of the House from giving his views fully on the subject, but what those views were could be gathered from his having so emphatically stated that he concurred in all that had fallen from his hon. Friend who had introduced the subject. It would have given him much pleasure to hear the opinions of other hon. Members on this question. He would never be inclined to evade any responsibility in dealing with a subject which was properly of a financial character, and where there were means of obtaining a thorough investigation. But the Treasury found itself embarrassed in dealing with certain subjects, especially where considerations of revenue were mixed up with considerations of police. It was very difficult to make proposals of a fiscal character when those proposals were liable to be suspected and to be taken for what they were not, and it was equally difficult to make proposals relative to police when it might be supposed that considerations connected with the public peace and comfort were merely put forward for the purpose of getting money. It would be impossible for him to move in this matter without the assistance of the House. He must be made aware of what the sentiments were in different parts of the country upon the question before making any proposal. This subject had been one of the standing difficulties of the Revenue Department ever since he had any connection with it. When he first became Chancellor of the Exchequer, in 1852, the matter was in almost inextricable confusion from a distinction which then prevailed in the rate of duties, some dogs being taxed at 8 s. 1835 s s., * 1836 s. s 1837
 MR. OTWAY  said, he congratulated the engineers on obtaining so able an advocate as the hon. Baronet (Sir Edward Dering), who had so fairly and comprehensively explained their case to the House. He (Mr. Otway) complained of the difficulty that existed in the way of obtaining justice from the Admiralty. The only response it was possible to obtain when re-presentations were made of grievances or other matters was that they were "under consideration." This matter had, however, been already considered in the House. The Duke of Somerset stated before a Committee that the subject was under consideration then as it was now. But when would the consideration be brought to any result? It was the complaint of every branch of the service that the Admiralty was always considering the case, but no advantage ever came of it. He was bound to press upon the attention of the House the most important matter concerning the widows of a class of officers who were exposed to unusual dangers, and among whom the mortality was very high. The engineers were confined in an atmosphere the temperature of which ranged from 60 to 145 degrees, while enduring other hardships which it was not necessary for him to recapitulate. Yet the widows of these men were not allowed any pension. He hoped the noble Lord would give the House some satisfactory explanation of the matter.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that if these labourers thought themselves as unfairly treated as appeared from the statements to which he had just listened, it was strange that in his own part of the country he had more applications for employment in the dockyard as joiners than for anything else. But for the strong antipathy which he entertained to asking favours from any one, his noble Friend opposite would be in receipt of daily applications from him on that subject. A little while ago he had forwarded an application on behalf of two men, and the reply was, that owing to the number of other applications, it was impossible to comply with the request. He knew that the labourers set great value on the Superannuation Fund. This chronic annual grievance of the dockyard labourers showed itself in so virulent a form that it was worth while remarking the
 1864 Cries of
 MR. SERJEANT KINGLAKE  said, he had been informed that the joiners in Her Majesty's dockyards received only 3 s. d. s. s. s. d. s. s. s. d. 1859 s. s. s d.,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it does not appear to me that any argument has been used during this debate which might induce Government to accede to the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry. The hon. and learned Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) who has discharged his duty on this occasion with great ingenuity and ability, and with a good humour worthy of imitation, objects to the remarks of the hon. and gallant Member for Truro (Captain Vivian). Now, the hon. and gallant Member for Truro is not a Member of the Administration, and in making the remarks he has made this evening he could only be influenced by public feeling and spirit. The hon. and learned Gentleman complains that the hon. and gallant Member for Truro did not remain to hear the arguments in answer to his speech. Now, what was the argument of the hon. and learned Gentleman? Why, simply, that the places in the dockyard were filled because the people of the surrounding county were poor. If this be true, and I do not mean
 1871 1872 1873 1874
 MR. OTWAY  said, that his chief object in rising was to move that the Chairman should report Progress, and ask for leave to sit again, although in the absence of the Speaker from the House, he did not know how it would be managed. The hour was too late (a quarter to twelve) for them to take that very important vote that night. The Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Childers) had held out some hope of action on the part of the executive Government in that matter, which was, however, dispelled the moment the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer refused to allow any inquiry to take place. If a Committee were granted the justice of the case of these men could, he believed, be proved with the greatest facility. He begged to move that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of the Admiralty how it was that on the naval station at Hong Kong the salaries were £5,000, and the wages £5,000 a year? There were there thirty five ships, many of them scarcely seaworthy. From the proportion of wages to the total Vote it appeared that a little economy might be applied. He should like to know whether the thirty-five ships in harbour or afloat in the China seas were really seaworthy, or whether they were kept there as a formality, and officers employed to little purpose?
 MR. OTWAY  said, that in the course of the discussion many statements had been made which were calculated to mislead the Committee. He was not aware that hon. Gentlemen had called themselves
 1878 Wyvern Scorpion, 1879 Achilles,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was not the custom to print annual Bills, such as those relating to Exchequer Bills and to the Militia, of which the skeleton remained the same. The only exceptions were the Appropriation Bill and the Mutiny Bill, which were now printed. It so happened that some alterations had been introduced into the present Bill, principally in the number of the men, and if the hon. Gentleman wished to call the attention of the House to any of these, every facility would be given to him to do so. But the Mutiny Bill was one which the exigencies of the service made it absolutely necessary should be passed by a certain day, and any loss of time might defeat that object.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he had ascertained that flogging was still practised in the Indian army. It had been revived by the late Lord Hardinge.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the word "branding" which occurred in the Bill must not be interpreted in the ordinary sense of burning. The men were merely tattooed with indelible ink in order that they might be prevented, after being discharged for gross misconduct from a regiment, from re-enlisting over and over again,, to the injury of the army.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he had given the Committee all the information which he possessed on the subject of Fenianism the other night upon the Army Estimates. He had nothing either to contradict or to add to that statement. As to the suspicion entertained by the hon. Member that the Church of Rome had anything to do with the Fenian movement, he certainly possessed no information leading him to the belief that this assumption
 1884 The Bed, White, and Blue.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, that since he
 1848
 MAJOR WALKER  said, that having studied pretty closely all the evidence given before Committees of the House of Commons on this subject, he had observed that the merits claimed for the breech-loader were grounded principally on the advantages derived from its rapidity of expulsion. But another great advantage which it possessed arose from the rapidity with which you could qualify a man to take his place in the ranks if the breech-loader were the arm used. Drilling generally went on in time of peace, and perhaps this was the reason we were not apt to think of the time devoted to it; but a panic was felt when, during the Crimean War, it was found necessary to issue an order that recruits should be placed in the ranks after a drill
 1832
 MAJOR WALKER  said, he was a proprietor and sheep farmer in the neighbourhood of the hon. Gentleman, and entirely concurred in every word which had fallen from the hon. Gentleman. [ Cries of
 MR. ALGERNON EGERTON  said, he must compliment the right hon. Baronet (Sir Robert Peel) on the ability of his speech, but could not agree with one part of it. The right hon. Baronet in saying that the health of Manchester was affected by the smoke rather overstated the case. [Sir ROBERT PEEL: I quoted the Returns of mortality.] That was true; but although the Returns of mortality were high it did not follow that that was owing to the smoke. It was quite possible to explain the high rate of mortality on other grounds; as, for instance, the closeness of the streets, the crowding together of the population, and all the cognate evils which affected the health of a great town; but he had doubts whether an overhanging canopy of smoke did not purify the air. He lived seven miles from Manchester, in a smoky, but not a crowded neighbourhood, and he did not observe that the health of the working man was affected. Besides, the suburbs of Manchester were healthful. With this exception, he agreed fully with the speech of the right hon. Baronet. Smoke had
 1824
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether any instructions have been issued to the Guardians of the Poor of Clerkenwell to correct the evils that has been proved to exist in the casual wards of that parish; and if the Poor Law Board have power to enforce such instructions, if issued?
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the punishment of flogging was, according to the alteration introduced by the late Lord Herbert, only inflicted on soldiers who had been previously degraded. It was rarely inflicted, and only in extreme cases. He should vote for the retention of the clause, believing it to be necessary for the discipline of the army
 1882
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  said, it appeared that no less than £7,816 was paid to seventy-eight messengers and porters. He wished to ask the noble Lord what class of men they were chosen from? There was also one lady housekeeper, and he should be glad to know whether that appointment was bestowed as a reward to the widows of deserving officers.
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will lay before the House a Return showing the number of heavy rifled guns of not less than 7-inch calibre, and up to 13·2-inch calibre, that have been tried, specifying the mode of rifling employed, the number of rounds fired, the charges of powder, weight and nature of the projectile used, and stating the injuries resulting to each gun; and whether the Secretary of State for War will also lay before Parliament the Correspondence between the War Department and the leading gunmakers in reference to the War Office Circular, of January 1st, 1866, asking the reasons which had deterred them from taking any part in the proposed competition for military breech-loading small arms?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : It was laid on the table of the House yesterday.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that with regard to the oil he was afraid he had himself been instrumental in cutting down the allowance at the Admiralty in 1860. In old times the allowances had been made for oil before gas was introduced, but when that change took place the houses were lit at the public expense with gas, but the allowance for oil continued till 1860. Soon after Lord Palmerston's Government came into office he, and the hon. Member for Bedford (Mr. Whitbread), who was then Civil Lord of the Admiralty, ascertained the average expense of the gas for a certain number of years, and assigned a fixed allowance per annum to each of the Lords of the Admiralty and the Secretary. He believed the House would not be disposed to quarrel with that arrangement. With regard to the allowances to clerks it was perfectly true that a certain number of clerks received special allowances for certain exceptional and peculiar business, and that those allowances had not been granted with the sanction of the Treasury. If, however, the hon. Member would look to the dates, he would perceive that the present Government was not responsible for that state of things. For a considerable number of years allowances had been grant-
 1849
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the engineers were not the only class of men whose widows did not receive a pension. Nothing was allowed to the widows of assistant-paymasters, second paymasters, and other officers of a corresponding rank with the engineers.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply to the hon. Member for the Tower i Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), that the Vote for superintendence was nearly the same as last year, and that it was owing to the new method that had been adopted in arranging the Votes that the charge under that head appeared excessive. For example, the whole of the cost of the superintendence of the dockyards had been transferred from Vote No. 1, with the view of plainly showing what was the real expenditure for such service. The charges of £9,000 for gas and £3,000 for writers had also been transferred for a similar purpose. Next year this charge would bear comparison with the Votes of previous years. Respecting the vessels at Hong Kong, his hon. Friend (Mr. Moffatt) would remember that at the time of the Chinese War a large number of gunboats were sent out; and on its termination, as a considerable expense would have been entailed by the voyage home, it was resolved that a certain number should be retained at Hong Kong, and there used for the suppression of piracy and for whatever purpose they were most suitable. As they became rotten they were broken up.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that if the Government had power to give a general increase of pay to the navy so valuable a body of men as the engineers should not be excluded from the advantage. But the truth was that admitting the moderation of the hon. Baronet's tone, and sharing his appreciation of the services of the engineers, nothing was so difficult to meet in that House as claims advanced on behalf of a single class of officers without reference to other classes of officers of equal merit and importance, when the position of each must be governed by a general standard applicable to all. When an hon. Member sought to improve the position of a particular class of officers he usually ignored other classes, but the Government was bound to take a wider view, and to consider other classes; and in considering the case of the engineers they could not overlook surgeons, masters, and other classes in the navy. Many of the demands made by the engineers in their Memorial to the Admiralty of the 1st of January were not founded upon a fair comparison of their pay, work, and position, with that of other officers of their rank in the service. As to a man not reaching the top of his profession until he was advanced in years, that was the rule in most employments; but a well-conducted man might become a chief engineer at the age of thirty-three. An engineer receives
 1844 s. d. s. 1845
 MAJOR DICKSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether there is any objection to lay before the House a Copy of the official Correspondence that has taken place with reference to the encroachments of the sea near the Guilford Battery at Dover; and if there is any objection to state what steps the Government have taken, or propose to take, in relation thereto?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would like to ask a question on a matter which had not been adverted to in this c hiaroscura 1877
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is my intention to place the terms of the oath which I mean to propose in a complete form on the table of the House at the commencement of public business on Wednesday next.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the late hour of half past one was not the time for entering on the question of corporal punishment, but he wished to express an opinion that the term "barbarous punishment" was only applicable to punishments that failed in their object of reforming the criminal; and such was not the case with flogging in the army. He thought that nonsense enough had been spoken on the subject on the preceding night which had been con-
 1883
 MR. MONK  said, he must protest against the opinion expressed by the hon. and gallant Member for Truro (Captain Vivian), that the dockyard labourers should be deprived of the electoral franchise. A perfect remedy against intimidation and against Government control or influence in the dockyards was to be found in the ballot, which might be tried in that case, though it might not be adopted for the whole kingdom. At all events, he trusted that they would not hear anything more of disfranchising the dockyard labourers at the very moment when the Government was about to propose an extension of the franchise.
 MR. SEELY  said, he wished to ask some questions with respect to the principles on which the construction of the navy was to be carried out. In what position was Captain Coles to be placed? Was the controversy between him and the Admiralty to continue, or was he to be allowed to construct a vessel according to his own theories? or were Captain Coles and Mr. Reed to be coupled together to the obstruction of each other. This was not merely a money question, but one which affected even the safety of the kingdom. Captain Coles did not hesitate to say that the ship which the Admiralty proposed to build would not carry out his designs, and would not be a fair test of his principle. The country, therefore, ought to know whether Captain Coles could be left unfettered to carry out his own principle, or whether he was to be clogged, as he had been for the last five years, by the Board of Admiralty. It would be very unfair to couple Captain
 1850 "In my opinion no sea-going turret-ship of moderate dimensions and a high speed can be satisfactorily built, if an attempt be made to approach to an all round fire. "But it is necessary to point out that there are great difficulties in the way, and that this vessel (Captain Coles' one turret-ship) is an embodiment of the strongest objections which have been taken by myself and others to the practicability of constructing satisfactorily sea-going turret-ships." "I have carefully examined your design for a two-turret vessel, and I am of opinion that it fulfils, under moderate dimensions, all the reasonable requirements of vessels of this description. The protection afforded against an enemy's shot is as great, or even greater, than in any vessel yet built. The fire throughout the entire circle is secured, and the height of the upper deck above water is, I am of opinion, sufficient to render the vessel safe and a comfortable sea-boat. 1851 Monarch, Monarch Pera, Golconda, Delhi, Baroda, Tanjore, Poonah Mooltan, "Now, I ask the House to consider what took place last year (1864). We (the Admiralty) heard of an eminent shipbuilder, a gentleman who had distinguished himself in drawing the lines of ships, a very scientific man. He was wholly unconnected with the Government service, but believing him to be a person who was thoroughly competent, we brought him from the private trade into the service of the country. That gentleman was Mr. Reed. Hon. Members will recollect to what an outcry his appointment gave rise to. I am very glad that we made that appointment, because Mr. Reed has performed his duties most satisfactorily."—[3  Hansard, 1852 Mechanics' Magazine, Enterprise. "That the smallest turret-ship, carrying but a single turret, if wholly armour-plated and made seaworthy, must be considerably larger than the  Enterprise." Enterprise, Minerva Enterprise Minerva 180 Enterprise, Minerva, Enterprise, Minerva, Enterprise, Minerva, Enterprise, Minerva, Enterprise, Minerva Enterprise, Minerva, The Times "The  Minerva, 1853 "The  Enterprise, Research, Favourite, Research uascar, Research Research, Huascar Research, Huascar, Research, Huascar Research, Huascar, Re-search, Huascar, Research, Huascar, Research, Huas- car, Liverpool Albion Huascar "This vessel, after being completed for sea, left here for Holyhead on the 17th of January, 1806, encountered very severe weather on the passage, but proved herself an excellent sea-boat, very buoyant, and rolled easily, even when placed broadside to a heavy sea in the race off Holyhead. She left Holyhead for Brest on the 20th instant, experiencing severe south-west gales in the Channel, but fully maintained her character as a good sea-going ship, and arrived off Ushanton the 22nd instant, and anchored safely at Brest on the following morning. The  Huascar Huascar Pallas," Pallas Newcastle, Newcastle, Pallas. Pallas 1854 Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, 52 Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, Pallas, Newcastle, Warrior "I freely stake my reputation, such as it may be, and all my anticipations of every kind, upon the fact that the  Bellerophon Bellerophon Warrior, Bellerophon. Bellerophon Warrior Bellerophon Warrior Bellerophon Warrior Bellerophon Warrior Bellerophon Warrior, Alabamas. "I state with the utmost absolute fearlessness and confidence that the Admiralty are now building a corvette from which neither the  Alabama Florida Amazon Flying Fish Amazon's Flying Fish Amazon's Flying Fish Amazon's Flying Fish Amazon's Flying Fish, Amazon's Flying Fish, Amazon's 1855 Flying Fish Amazon Amazon Danae, Trusty. 1856
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  replied that, in answer to the Question of which he had just received notice from the hon. Member, he had to state that the district to which he had referred was not completely within the jurisdiction of the Poor Law Board, and derived its authority from a Private Act. The Board has, however, always claimed the right of inspecting its workhouses, and had for some years past had reason to complain of the provision which was there made for the inmates, and, indeed, owing to the frequent remonstrances which the metropolitan inspector had made, in consequence of the visit he had lately paid both by day and by night, the guardians had at length determined and were about to obtain premises better calculated to give effect to the requirements of the law. He was, however, assured that this parish had been in former times, and for many years, unwilling to attend to the instructions of the Poor Law Board, and had considered itself entitled to defy its authority.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he would not undertake to bring in a Bill extending the powers of the Poor Law Board without further inquiry.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State
 1810
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, that that was not placing the Bill in the hands of Members sufficiently early to enable them to give notice of any Amendment which they might wish to propose in Committee.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must renew the complaint which he had made in the early part of the evening with respect to the Bill not having been printed before, expressing himself dissatisfied with the official answer which had been given to his question on the subject by the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington).
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must again complain of the non-printing of the Bill.
 MR. ELLICE  said, he rose to call the attention of Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer to circumstances connected with the collection of the Tax upon dogs, and to ask, whether any alteration was contemplated with regard to that Tax? His part of Scotland was favourably situated for the establishment of a cordon to prevent the movement of diseased cattle. Stringent measures had been adopted to prevent the spread of infection, and cattle were prevented from passing over the Caledonian Canal from the south to the north of Scotland. But there was a class of animals with which they had no means of dealing—namely, the ownerless dogs which roamed through the country day and night. Those dogs completely eluded the cordon, and the guards placed on the bridges of the canal. The danger of the spread of infection had thus become so imminent that the gentlemen of the district considered how it could be met and what measures could be adopted to lessen it. They commenced by inquiring whether the alleged owners of those dogs acted up to their legal obligations by paying the dog tax. They told the local revenue authorities that the county was ready to give them the assistance of the police, and the assistance of the Excise officers would have been available also. But the local revenue authorities refused to interfere. Having failed with the local authorities, he and the gentlemen who acted with him made an application to the Board of Inland Revenue; and he was permitted to read to the House the Minute he had received from the Board. It was as follows:—
 "It is the business of the surveyor of taxes for the district to bring into charge the owner of every dog liable to the tax; but before making an assessment the surveyor must ascertain the owner or person harbouring the dog, and, furthermore, he must satisfy himself that the dog is not exempted from duty. The exemption extends to all dogs kept for the care of sheep or cattle, or in driving or removing the same, without limit as to number. Thus the dogs of tenants (without limit
 1833 s., * s. s. 1834 s.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to know whether there will be any objection
 1805
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that flogging had been abolished in many of our prisons without detriment to discipline. Mr. Sheppard, the Governor of the Wakefield Prison, had expressed his opinion that corporal punishment had been a failure. The punishment was a revolting one. The same arguments used now were used in favour of flogging in prisons, but the severity of the punishment was mitigated without the discipline of the prison being affected. Flogging was inconsistent with their notions of civilization, and was a soldier to be the only man subjected to this mode of punishment? The opinion of military gentlemen was not to be relied on. They were so accustomed to the punishment they could not make up their minds to forego it.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that no answer had been returned to the Question which he had addressed to the noble Marquess the Secretary for War.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to ask for some explanation relative to the existence of Fenianism in the army. He was one of those who considered that Fenianism was connected with a particular creed. Roman Catholic recruits had, he believed, decreased within the last three or four years, but in the superior grades of the service Roman Catholicism had been on the increase. Let them remember that the Duke of Wellington had greatly objected to the admission of Roman Catholics into the higher corps of the army, whereas there had of late years been a steady influx of recruits of that creed into those corps. [ Cries of
 SIR HENRY BARRON  said, he would beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, When he will lay on the table of the House the Amendments which he announced it to be his intention to propose in Committee on the Parliamentary Oaths Amendment Bill.
 MR. CHILDERS : I said an hon. Member had done so. That Member saw good reason to withdraw it, and the hon. Member then took it up.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that in answering the Question of the hon. Member he should make an appeal to him and to the House as to the wisdom of asking questions of this kind. The Treasury was engaged in a very difficult operation. In consequence of petitions from different classes of Customs officers last year, they had inquired very minutely into the whole classification and pay of the service, and they had been
 1807
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he hoped he would not be intruding on the Committee if he said a few words on this subject. Not being at present at the Admiralty, but having had the honour of being connected with the Admiralty last year, and having taken part in the debate which occurred last Session on the question of wages in the dockyards, he felt it right to state some matters which had come within his own knowledge. In accordance with the promise given by the Government in the course of the debate to which he alluded he had felt it his duty in connection with other members of the Admiralty—and a good deal of the work fell upon him—to very closely investigate the question. Each of the dockyards was visited by the Board; and two or three members of the Board, seated round a table, received, without the presence of any of the dockyard officials, deputations, consisting generally of two or three men at a time, from, the different
 1865 1866 1867 s. s. d. s. d. s. 1868
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that that had formerly been the custom, the balance accruing from the sale being paid into the Exchequer. The Treasury, however, acting
 1880
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, that the Report to which the hon. Member had referred was laid on the table of the House only very recently. The Report was not confined to Ireland, but applied to every part
 1840
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he was not
 1806
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  replied that he would direct an inquiry to be made with the view of ascertaining the facts, and also whether any instructions had been given to the police to watch such cases, in order to prevent the introduction of the cattle disease into Ireland.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland a Question of which he had given notice, but before putting the Question he wished to make a few remarks. The most opposite beliefs on the subject of trawl fishing existed in Ireland, and this was not to be wondered at, seeing that Mr. Commissioner Barry expressed an opinion on the subject differing from that contained in the Report of the Sea Fisheries Commission. With the great facilities the Commission had of obtaining the most reliable information, one could have little hesitation in relying on their Report, even although it was opposed to the opinion of Mr. Commissioner Barry. The
 1838 "The great decline in the number of fishermen we believe to be wholly due to the effects of the famine of 1848, and the subsequent emigration. It might have been anticipated" that during the famine the fishermen at least would be secure from its ill effects, and would not only have plenty of food themselves, but would be the means of averting starvation from others. But such was not the case; it was found that the people would not live wholly on fish, nor would they out of the small means remaining to them buy fish in preference to meal or potatoes; the fishermen, therefore, suffered not only from the loss of their own crops of potatoes, but from want of "market for their fish. They shared to the full extent in the sufferings of the famine, and as most of them became physically incapable of going to sea, it was frequently found that men were starving while fish were in abundance on the coast. In many parts of Ireland the fishing population has not yet recovered from the depression and ruin caused by the famine; and the subsequent emigration, by taking off the youngest and ablest of the fishermen, and leaving behind the old, the feeble, and the incompetent, has still further operated, not only in reducing the numbers, but in lowering the average condition of those who remain behind." 1839
 MR. FLEMING  said, he was anxious that the few observations he had to make should not be regarded as emanating from a factious spirit. He wished to call attention to the present low scale of remunerating the artificers and labourers in the dockyards, which prevented the Government from getting the most efficient men. He thought it unworthy of this great country, spending, as it did, £10,000,000 annually upon our navy, that the Admiralty should hunt the kingdom through in order to obtain cheap labour, and that they should offer far less to their workpeople than was given in private yards. Was it just and was it politic that labourers in the dockyards should be kept down to starvation point by their wages being reduced to 13 s. s. 1857
 MR. FLEMING  said, he would repeat his Question, Why the sum of £15,000, which was set down in the Vote for the payment of the wages of artificers and labourers employed in the breaking up of old ships was not defrayed out of the sale of the materials of those vessels? He thought it would be more advisable to sell the ships at once for what they would bring, and thus save the expense of breaking them up.
 MR. FLEMING  said, he thought it was the duty of a great country like this to secure good labour, and when it obtained it to keep it. It might be true that poor men from Cornwall would be glad to enter Her Majesty's service in the dockyards with the view of getting a little higher wages to save them from destitution; but
 1875 s. s. s. s. d. s. s.
 MR. HENDERSON  said, he had given some attention to this subject, and thought it was very desirable that in all large manufactories the smoke should be consumed. It would be a great boon to the working classes if they were permitted to see a little daylight. An eminent example of what could be done in the way of controlling this smoke nuisance could be seen by any hon. Member who might choose to note the different manufacturing establishments between Battersea and Blackwall from the deck of one of the river steamers. It was not, however, in places like the metropolis that nuisances of this kind prevailed to any extent. They were chiefly found in districts where coal was cheap, and where there was a great unwillingness to incur the expense of the apparatus necessary to get rid of the nuisance. There were men who were always opposed to change, and who persisted in walking in the old beaten track, refusing to concur in any alteration as being nothing short of innovation, and whose opposition would be enhanced if the change were necessitated by anything which could be regarded in the light of compulsion; whilst others were willing to adopt that which offered a prospect of saving and improvement. When, however, it could be shown that by their adherence to the present system these people Were causing injury to the health and to the property of their neighbours the Legislature might, he thought, be very fairly called upon to interfere. It could not be doubted that an atmosphere charged
 1822 1823
 MR. LOCKE  said, the punishment ought not to be inflicted on any Englishman. We had secured the Sepoys from corporal punishment, and that punishment ought not to be allowed to remain in our own army. The minority in the House against the punishment had been gadually increasing, and he thought the time had come when it should be abolished. Flogging had been abrogated in England till a few years ago, when it was revived in the case of "garrotters." Ought it, then, to be continued in the case of the soldier? Thieves were not flogged at home. Ought soldiers to be classed with garrotters?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the case of a drover, who on his return from Cardiff to Cork had three fresh calf-skins tied up in a bundle, which he sought to conceal; and whether instructions will be given to the police in the various Irish ports to institute such scrutiny as would prevent the risk of the cattle disease being introduced into Ireland by similar means?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, in conformity with the reiterated recommendations of the Army Medical Department and Military authorities, the Government have yet determined upon the employment of native troops in China?
 COLONEL WILSON-PATTEN  said, it was unnecessary for the hon. Member to offer any observations as to the merits of the object which he had in view. It bad been an object with that House, but more especially with the other House of Parliament, for many years past to obtain some stricter regulations with respect to dealings with the houses of the labouring classes. There was a Standing Order of the other House much more stringent than any which the House of Commons possessed to enable the Legislature to make any enactments which it might think fit for the accommodation of the labouring classes. He would express his regret that within a short time
 1797 "The proposed site and the said plans of the dwellings so to be built should in every case be submitted for the approval of Her Majesty's Chief Commissioner of Works, who should have power to fix the site and to enforce the conditions laid down in the last clause, but not otherwise to alter the proposed plan." 1798
 MR. SAMUDA  said, that the cases of the dockyard men and of those in private yards were totally different. The dockyard men had, first of all, a very great advantage in having permanent employment, and they valued it exceedingly high. In the next place, they had something in the shape of superannuation. Then there was another important circumstance, and that was that whether it was wet or fine the dockyard man received his wages. That was not the case in private yards. When the day was wet the workmen had to stand off the slips, and then they got no wages. Then there was another considerable difference. The general system adopted in the dockyards was to pay by the day, and the men worked in the ordinary way to earn a day's wages. But in private yards the wages which they had heard so much of were given as a general rule for piece work, in which a man made much greater exertion in order to get a greater amount. The general effect of all that was that the men, knowing the advantages on the one side and the other, did not leave the dockyards, and that private builders could not get them. As to the alleged rise in articles of consumption, having been in business thirty years, he believed that his men purchased everything cheaper now than they did then, and he knew that their wages had been increased  25 1869
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he wished to call attention to the practice of flogging in the army. The clause authorized a system of discipline of a nature so severe that it could not justly be designated anything but torture. During the year 1862, there were eighteen lashes for every turn administered on the back of the British soldier. He contended that it was a libel on the English character to contend that the average class of Englishmen could not be kept in discipline without the lash. Either we enlisted bad men, or we had incapable officers. He moved the omission of the clause.
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, he moved the rejection of the clause. It was an infamy and a disgrace to the country.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  (Rochester) said, he had brought forward this subject till he was tired. He also could bear testimony that the joiners in the dockyards were paid less than in private yards. Last year he was told that they were paid so much that any discontent that might be reported to him must be the result of an hallucination, and that they could not be tempted into private yards. When he was told this he could answer nothing; he was, in fact, completely floored. But he afterwards made inquiries; and he found that a great strike was going on, and that owing to the influence of the trades' unions no man in the Government yards dared go into private yards for any remuneration that might be offered. He had now the confirmation of the last speaker, who was a large employer of labour, that he could not get joiners for the price paid in Her Majesty's dockyards. The argument used against him last year, though successful, was hardly, as he thought, fair. The Committee should remember that the joiners in Her Majesty's dockyards had practically no redress for their grievances. They could not strike as men engaged in private dockyards could do if they felt aggrieved, and deputations to the Admiralty were productive of no result. He was one of a deputation that went last year to the Admiralty. They were asked point blank, did they understand the business better than the Admiralty? With all due and proper deference he thought they did. When the Admiralty made their periodical visits they asked the men whether they had any grievances. But it was a common remark that the Admiralty knew as much about dockyards as dockyards knew about the Admiralty. Having made numerous inquiries into the matter, he found that the men in the dockyards were paid less than in private yards; in addition to which they had to find their own tools. The consequence was that the Admiralty were not getting the pick of the men among the young hands. It was said that the dockyard men had four holidays in the year;
 1858
 MR. HANBURY  said, that the firm to which he belonged had tried many experiments without success, when the subject was before Parliament on a former occasion, with a view to benefit the neighbourhood of Spitalfields, where their brewery was situated. They then adopted Jukes' patent, which proved almost entirely successful. There was a good deal of smoke generated the first thing in the morning, and some then no doubt escaped; but during the rest of the day there was no more smoke than from a house chimney. The apparatus was expensive at first, but during the first year the firm saved £2,000 in the cost of fuel, as they were able to consume, instead of large coal, the very smallest. The great advantages derived from getting rid of the smoke were now beginning to be apparent, and the silk weavers could open their windows and enjoy the fresh air, which it was impossible for them to do before this process was adopted at the brewery. Where before a plant or flower was never seen, plants and flowers were in full bloom. So satisfactory had been the result of an effort towards the consumption of smoke in his own case that he trusted the Government would take some measures for making the thing more general.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, that the engineers were as reluctant as the noble Lord could wish to have their claims brought before the House; but the difficulty was, where else were they to go? They came to the House because it was absurd to go to the Admiralty for redress of grievances. He was much disappointed at hearing the noble Lord's speech, which amounted to this, that the thing would hang on until the end of the Session, and would then be indefinitely postponed, thus holding out no hope to these unfortunate people. He must say that he considered
 1846
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE  said, it was unnecessary to defend the representatives of the dockyard towns for having taken up the cause of their constituents. It was all very well for the hon. and gallant Member for Truro (Captain Vivian), who had scarcely heard a word of the debate, to rush into the House, let off his speech, and then rush out again, after crying down the claims of the dockyard workmen. If the hon. Member had so many applications for joiners, that only proved that the men were very badly paid in Cornwall. The hon. Gentleman had thrown out a taunt about disfranchising the dockyards, thus adding insult to injury. But he might have waited to see what Monday would bring forth. He could say that he had found the artificers of the dockyards a most independent class of men. The real fact was, that hon. Members for dockyard boroughs, on both sides' of the House, had taken up the case of the workmen because they had evidence that they were not treated as they deserved, and because every class of labourers in the yards had come forward with complaints. It had been said that the men ought to bring their complaints before the Lords of the Admiralty. He considered it absurd to expect poor labouring men to wait on the Lords of the Admiralty with complaints. For his own part, he never looked forward to an interview with the Lords of the Admiralty without fear and trembling. And in addition to that, the Lords of the Admiralty when in Portsmouth were always in such a hurry that it was impossible to obtain an interview with them. The argument against raising the salaries of the men appeared to be that their present pay was sufficient. It was said that these men received wages equivalent to what they would get in private yards, but it was shown by calculations that the superannuation was worth 3½d. a day, and that the holidays were only four. The permanent employment might be worth something, but the Admiralty had the further hold upon the men that they had wives and children and could not therefore leave their homes in search of other employment; but because they had got them tied by the leg, was it fair, was it generous, to take advantage of them? That they got a man for what they could was an
 1870
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, his hon. and gallant Friend (Colonel W. Patten) had referred to a Bill of which he (Mr. Milner Gibson) had given notice, and he thought the clauses proposed by the hon. Member for Lambeth might be inserted therein. Al-though that Bill contained clauses very fit to be inserted in a metropolitan railway Bill, he (Mr. Milner Gibson) should be very sorry to give any countenance to the principles on which the clauses now proposed must rest. It seemed to him that they might proceed in this direction till they made improvement almost impossible, and the execution of valuable public works so difficult that they could not be undertaken. No class in this country had been so much benefited by the great works executed of late years in London as had the labouring classes. He believed their wages had been raised and abundant employment found for them by those works. If it could be shown that injury was done to a certain class by any particular works executed in London he should say compensate them, let no man suffer injury in order that certain works might be executed. But if railway companies were to have fastened on them the obligation of being builders of model lodging-houses, he had great doubts whether that enactment would be for the benefit of the working classes. If these were to be erected in the town, the result would be to create a greater evil than was sought to be removed. Somebody must remove from the site of the new model lodging-houses. Was there to be a site found for the dis-
 1799
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : I said distinctly that every person who could show that he had sustained any injury by the execution of railway works was entitled to be compensated.
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, the course of that debate had proved to him quite clearly that many seeming difficulties would present themselves in the matter to hon. Members which did not exist in reality. The noble Lord opposite, for instance, (Lord Stanley) had taken an objection on principle which was capable of being answered. The noble Lord said that these Standing Orders would create a new form of tenant-right, and he illustrated that by the case of the landlord of a whole street next to a street bought up by a railway company, remarking that that private landlord might pull down all his houses and deal with his land as he pleased, evicting the tenants without any compensation. That was quite true; but such a landlord did not come before Parliament asking for any compulsory powers. All that he maintained was that when a company made an application to the House for powers to pull down the dwellings of the people, it was their duty, before acceding to such application, to see that other provision was made for their reception. It was surprising that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade should refuse to give any countenance to the principle of the proposed Standing Orders; but, happily, his countenance was not required, because countenance that was much more valuable had already been obtained. Consent had been given to the principle embodied in these Resolutions by half-a-dozen of the great railway companies in that metropolis. If, then, the railway companies were ready to take this burden upon themselves, and thus remove the difficulty which every one experienced in dealing with this question, surely the House would not come forward and say that this should not be done. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had stated that the labouring classes had been most benefited by the construction of railways. The labouring
 1804
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, he rose to move certain Amendments of Standing Orders and certain new Standing Orders of which he had given notice. His Motion related to the destruction of the dwellings of the labouring classes consequent on the construction of railways and public works. His object was to provide a remedy for the great evil of overcrowding in the metropolis and other large cities consequent on the destruction of the houses of the poorer classes through the compulsory powers
 1793 1794 "And shall specify by a denoting mark against each name which, if any, of the persons named in such book of reference as owners or reputed owners, lessees or reputed lessees, and occupiers, belong to the labouring classes; and all weekly tenants and lodgers shall be deemed to belong to the labouring classes." solvitur ambulando. "And whose rent shall not exceed 10s. weekly." "Including the building of dwellings for members of the labouring classes, as hereinafter provided." "It shall be competent to a Committee to admit any inhabitant of a parish in which lands and houses are situate which are sought by any Bill to be taken, to be heard on the question whether the book of reference deposited in relation to the Bill specifies correctly which of the persons named in such book of reference as owners or reputed owners, lessees or reputed lessees, and occupiers belong to the labouring classes." "The company, person, or corporation to whom the power is given shall not exercise the power hereby given to them of taking lands or houses of which any persons belonging to the labouring classes are owners, lessees, or occupiers, until the
 1795 "The proposed site and the said plans of the dwellings so to be built shall in every case be submitted for the approval of Her Majesty's Chief Commissioner of Works, who shall have power to fix the site and to enforce the conditions laid down in the last clause, but not otherwise to alter the proposed plans." "If the company, person, or corporation shall offer to any owner, lessee, or occupier of any lands or houses to be taken under the provisions hereof, one or more room or rooms in the dwellings to be provided as aforesaid at a specified rent, and for a specified time, the  bonâ fides 1796 "All persons occupying lands and houses to be taken under the provisions hereof, being members of the labouring classes, shall be entitled to compensation under the provisions of 'The Lands Clauses Consolidation Act, 1845,' although the company, person, or corporation may, after having purchased the interests of the owners or lessees thereof, have given notice to such persons to quit, and the term fixed by such notice may have expired."
 MR. BAXTER  said, that as the Chancellor of the Exchequer desired to know the opinions of Members upon the subject introduced by the hon. Member for St. Andrew's (Mr. Ellice), he had for himself to state his entire concurrence with all that the hon. Member had said. At the same time, he felt very great doubt whether the subject was one of sufficient importance for the appointment of a Select Committee, and was inclined to think that those interested in the subject would be satisfied if the right hon. Gentleman would himself propose such changes in the law as he had indicated in his speech. All that was necessary was to reduce the duty from 12 s. s. s.,
 MR. FERRAND  said, he wished to draw attention to a Return for which he had moved, and which he held in his hand, observing that he should like to know what excuse was to be made for the inaccuracy of the information which it contained. In consequence of the opinions expressed in the House and out of it, as to the way in which the Admiralty accounts had been kept, he had been induced to look into the matter. For years great complaint was made as to the incorrectness of these accounts, and no one had found greater fault with them than the noble Lord himself. The hon. Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld), when connected with the Admiralty, had gone on a roving commission, and had made some rather severe remarks on the way in which the accounts were kept. They were told that for the future every farthing of the naval expenditure would be accounted for. With respect to allowances in other departments, the requirements of the Treasury were adhered to, but in the Return referred to be found that no less a sum than £643 was allowed to the Lords of the Admiralty, and to the Secretaries to the Board—the noble Lord opposite and Mr. Romaine—for oil. That allowance he believed to be just and proper, but what he complained of was that no mention was made of its having been converted into a money payment, and that the Lords of the Treasury had not been
 1847
 MR. FERRAND  said, that as the representative of a dockyard borough, he should be failing in his duty towards his constituents if he did not say a few words upon the subject before the Committee. The statement which he made last Session relative to the claims of the dockyard labourers had never been contradicted, and he believed that no more just claims had ever been submitted to the attention of the House. He hoped to be able to convince the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the matter was more serious than he imagined. It had been stated that the artificers and labourers ought to apply to the Admiralty, instead of submitting their claims to the consideration of the House, but they had been repeatedly refused by the Admiralty. During the last Session the claims of the officers of Customs were brought before the House, after having been repeatedly rejected by the Board, and the result was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken the claims into consideration, and that the salaries of those officers had been
 1860 s. s. s., s., s. s. d. s. 1861 s. d., s. d.
 SIR CHARLES BRIGHT  said, he laboured under the disadvantage in taking part in the discussion of being the representative of a borough which had two dockyards in it. He thought it a disadvantage, because the grievances of the workmen had been so frequently brought forward on former occasions by Members representing dockyard towns, that he feared they would
 1862 s. d. s. d., s. d. s. 9d. 1863
 SIR EDWARD DERING  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the position of the Engineers of the Royal Navy. Their pay was quite incommensurate with the duties they were called on to discharge. It was hardly possible to overrate the value of their services, because it was upon the ability with which they discharged their duties that the efficiency of that steam fleet which had been so much discussed the last few nights depended. A chief engineer ranked with a lieutenant in the navy, and an inspector of machinery afloat ranked with a post captain. The engineers properly claimed that they
 1841 1842 1843 Navy List,
 MR. WATKIN  said, that he had arranged with the noble Lord the Secretary at War, who had explained to him the cause of his absence, to proceed with his Question as to whether any and what experiments had been made with the repeating rifles in use in the United States army; and as to the use of similar weapons in the army of Her Majesty? By calling the attention of the House to a subject of such moment, admitting, as he felt assured the House would, that the British soldier ought to be armed with the best weapon of modern invention, the Question divided itself into two—namely, the alteration of the Enfield, the present arm of our service, into a breech-loader, and the provision of even a better weapon for at least a portion of our troops. He did not at all object, but the contrary, to the conversion of the Enfield, but he looked upon it as a temporary measure, and as not satisfactorily answering the demand for a weapon fully equal to that wholly or even partially in use by any nation with whom we might come into collision. The noble Lord had spoken of the alteration of the Enfield proposed by Mr. Snider, and he believed that ingenious inventor had succeeded in doing
 1829 s. s., 1830 1831
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, it appeared to him that it would by-and-by become a question whether they ought not to put a stop to the construction of railways altogether, rather than encourage them on the one hand and beat them down on the other by such treatment as was now proposed. He opposed the proposition of the hon. Member for Lambeth. If the proposal was adopted it would greatly interfere' with the operations of railway companies in London, while it would confer no corresponding benefit on the labouring classes. There was before the House two Bills for improving the dwelling accommodation of the working classes, but he was afraid that those measures would not provide one half or one quarter as many new dwellings as private Bills before Parliament would destroy.
 MR. POWELL  said, he hoped that, in endeavouring to prevent the overcrowding of the people in certain parts of the metropolis, the House would take care by its action not to make matters worse. The
 1803
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the arrangements for the commutation were still under consideration, and that no scheme had as yet been prepared. The Commissioners had no objection to the plan proposed by the School Commission, that out of the revenues of the Dean and Chapter funds should be provided for the additional endowment of the school. Legislation would be requisite, and a Bill would shortly be introduced in that or the other House of Parliament on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied there would be no objection, and in fact he believed that all such schemes were laid before Parliament.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am sure, Sir, I only give utterance to the general sentiment of the House when I say that my right hon. Friend the Member for Tamworth (Sir Robert Peel) has done good service in bringing this matter before us. The time of the House cannot be employed to more advantage than in endeavouring to devise some practical means by which we may contribute to the health and enjoyment of the great body of the people. But, Sir, I would observe that, agreeing as I do in much that my right hon. Friend has said, he seems scarcely to have informed himself as to how far the laws at present in existence give the power to do what he desires—namely, to enforce the consumption of smoke in furnaces and manufactories. It is not generally known that the evil complained of would be very much I decreased if the means at present in our hands were made full use of; and, although it may be desirable that some such Act as that suggested by my right hon. Friend to apply to the whole country should be passed, it is far more desirable that we
 1826 1827 1828
 SIR GEORGE GREY  stated, that it would be quite impossible to discuss the Amendments introduced in the House of Lords into the Cattle Plague Bill that evening, nor could he, under all the circumstances of the case, fix a time for the discussion.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, the punishment of flogging was regarded by every officer in the army with aversion; and was not resorted to except in extreme cases of imperious necessity. No soldier of good character dreaded the punishment; but no good soldier objected to it when it was inflicted on soldiers of the most disreputable character. It was their best protection against the evil doers. He hoped the House would not, by striking out the clause, interfere with the discipline of the army.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, before any scheme for the contemplated arrangement between the Ecclesiastical Commissioners and the Dean and Chapter of Westminster shall be submitted for the approbation of the Queen in Council, Her Majesty's Government will take care that provision shall be made for the additional payment by the Chapter to Westminster School, as recommended by the Public Schools Commission, and for the assignment of separate estates for the maintenance of the school? He also wished to know, whether, if the Government find that such a provision cannot be made by Order in Council, they are prepared to bring in a Bill during the present Session to carry that arrangement into effect?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he had on a former evening expressed it to be his opinion that the circumstances which he had brought before the House in connection with the Devonport Election ought to be investigated by a Select Committee. It was then suggested on the part of the Government—and in the propriety of that suggestion he quite concurred—that it was advisable before taking that step to wait for the arrival of the information which they expected to receive from Devonport on the subject. The Question he now wished to put was, Whether that information has been received, and when it will be in the hands of Members?
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  said, he hoped that in future the Bill would be printed earlier, to give hon. Members an
 1881
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, that branding was a most painful operation. He hoped some means would be found for superseding an operation that marked and degraded a man for the remainder of his life.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I trust, Sir, this may be considered a question of sufficient importance to justify me in bringing it under the notice of the House. I shall endeavour to detail, as concisely as I can, some of the evils arising from smoke furnaces in the towns and country districts of England, with the view of inducing the Government, if possible, to legislate on the question during the present Session. The question is one which affects the sanitary condition, the health, the comfort, and the happiness of almost every class in the community, but more especially of the operative classes in the great centres of industry in Yorkshire, Lancashire and the Midland Counties. The evils of which I complain, and which might be entirely abated, rise from the smoke of coal, a mineral our resources in which it is impossible to overestimate. But the greater the value of this article the more careful, I contend, ought we to be to observe due economy in the use of it. It is probably the most precious article in this country—perhaps more valuable than the precious metals of the mines of Mexico, because it is applicable to all the purposes of human labour. Considering the number of hands employed in this branch of industry, the capital invested, the tonnage of the vessels employed in
 1811 1812 1813 "In regard to the practicability of smoke prevention there is no longer any question; and, further, it has been proved by the most careful experiments that its prevention increases the economic value of the fuel. Two conditions only are requisite—1, admission of atmospheric air above the fuel to mix with the gases evolved in order to supply sufficient oxygen for their perfect combustion, and a high temperature in the furnace; and as neither of these conditions can be obtained where there is deficient draught, this deficiency may be said to be the chief cause of smoke. In Glasgow and Dundee measures have been taken of late years to abate the smoke nuisance, and several prosecutions have ensued, but although some good has undoubtedly been done, the results cannot be said to have been altogether successful." 1814 "It was no argument to urge, because the nuisance had been borne so long, that therefore it could be borne a little longer. Manufacturers might say they could not consume their own smoke, but if Parliament would only say,' You must do so,' the smoke would be consumed, and the public would be relieved from this nuisance."—[See 3  Hansard, "If ever there was a case in which he would not say the interests, but the prejudices of the few were opposed to the interests of the many, this was such a case. Here were a few, perhaps one hundred Gentlemen, connected with these different furnaces in London, who wished to make 2,000,000 of their fellow inhabitants swallow the smoke, and who thereby helped to deface all our architectural monuments, and to impose the greatest inconvenience and injury upon the lower class. Here were the prejudices and ignorance—the affected ignorance—of a small combination of men set up against the material interest, the physical enjoyment, the health, the comfort of upwards of 2,000,000 of their fellow men. He would not believe that Parliament would back these smoke-producing monopolists."—[3  Hansard, c 1815 1816 "I have not the slightest doubt that so far as our park is concerned the vegetation is much injured by the smoke, although it is situate on high ground and some distance from the factory chimneys. It is much to be regretted that there is not some compulsory law for the consumption of smoke. I attribute the present non-observance of the existing law to the fact that its enforcement rests with the local authorities, who are individually, as a rule, large manufacturers, and, as such, creators of the nuisance." "Your letter refers to a subject on which I have had some considerable experience of a very disagreeable nature. To begin with, our township of Oswaldtwistle, and within 500 yards of my house, we have naphtha works, emitting a most offensive smell, and most destructive to vegetation. If they are continued all the trees within their influence will die. Then adjoining we have bone boiling works polluting the atmosphere in the most dreadful manner. Now, what is the general effect of these works upon the neighbourhood? Many a time my house is filled with nauseous effluvium, and my land as building land is ruined, for no one would choose to reside in such a locality. Mr. S. has suffered dreadfully in the health of his family, Mr. B. 's occupation of his house is destroyed, and Mr. G. has experienced the same evils. It may be said, what are the local boards doing? I answer they are doing nothing, although the strongest representations have been made to them. But the fact is, the Acts of Parliament constituting these local boards are not sufficiently definite or stringent. I and my neighbours are joining together and preparing evidence for legal proceedings, but we think it very hard we should be put to a large expense for that which we think ought to be done by the local board. If Sir Robert Feel will take up the mat-
 1817 "It is much to be regretted that there is not some compulsory law for the consumption of smoke." 1818 The Times "I very carefully traced nearly every case of cholera during the last two invasions of this disease in Manchester, and invariably I found there had been direct communication with infected persons or an infected atmosphere. I entertain no more doubt of the infectious nature of cholera than that of smallpox or scarlatina. Its course can be accounted for in no other way. Under the threatening prospect of a fresh invasion it is best to look the disease fairly in the face, and not, under the fear of being considered alarmists, to ignore its nature and neglect the means of breaking the force of the attack. It is doubtful, too, whether in our time typhus does not absolutely originate in the ill conditions of our crowded towns. Be this as it may, nothing is more certain than that the ordinary unfavourable conditions of large towns, with their festering graveyards, decomposing offal, noisome exhalations of tallow-chandleries, and other manufactories of animal matters, stenches of sewers and drains, and stagnant atmosphere of courts and alleys, are the predisposing causes of diseases, especially infectious diseases. If they do not actually produce disease, they so reduce the tone and strength of the population, so vitiate
 1819 * * "No town in England is better and more abundantly supplied with good and pure water than Manchester." "What is it, then, "he asks," that makes Manchester so unhealthy a town?" "Close to my town house, on the west side, is a large graveyard, in which interments are even yet made daily. On one side of the street, separated by a small interval, is a large tallow-melting work recently established; on the other side of the street an ancient and time-honoured tallow-chandlery, with its vested right of poisoning the neighbours. Add to the noxious products which load the atmosphere from these sources the black outpourings from innumerable chimneys, and a tolerable conception of the sanitary state of the neighbourhood will be obtained. The un-healthiness of Manchester is due to its vitiated atmosphere." "Let any one examine the lungs after death of a person who has been long resident in Manchester, and in the bronchial glands he will find a fluid substance, inhaled soot, as black and thick as ink." 1820 "In respect to your inquiry as to the injury which this park suffers from the smoke of Manchester and Salford I may say that, in the opinion of members of the Park Committee, who have served from the opening in 1846, and my own opinion from watching its effects from 1851, the smoke is gradually destroying the many fine trees, elms, horsechestnuts, oaks, ash, and ornamental shrubs. Tear by year the damage gains in amount, and even the grass gets poorer, and requires to be renewed by sodding brought from a distance, for the seed will not grow in such a smoked and impure atmosphere." "I account that gardening is the purest of human pleasures, and the greatest refreshment to the spirit of man." 1821
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, he would not have troubled the House with any remarks upon the subject under discussion had it not been for the fact that Lord Palmerston had asked him, when the subject was before dealt with, to make a series of experiments with a view to ascertain whether the evil complained of could be met in a practical manner. The late Member for Lymington (Mr. Mackinnon) introduced this subject Session after Session, but it was not until Lord Palmerston took up the subject that anything was done with it. When the late Premier was assured that the consumption of smoke would result in a great saving to the manufacturer, it was one among the great services that he had conferred upon his country that he took action in the matter. The result had shown that many instances could be cited similar to that mentioned by the hon. Member for Middlesex (Mr. Hanbury), who had mentioned the fact that his firm had saved upwards of £2,000 a year by the adoption of a process which had always before been looked on as objectionable. He saw no reason for believing that the same result would not attend the general adoption of the London plan throughout the country. If an example was wanted, he would point to Leicester, which had as many manufactories in and around it as any town in the kingdom, yet in the very centre of Leicester flowers would be found blooming as fresh as in a country village.
 1825
 SIR MORTON PETO  said, that as one largely concerned in the employment of labour, he deemed the subject under discussion unworthy the attention of the Committee, and the discussion itself out of place and calculated to do serious mischief. If the workmen were so badly paid in the Government dockyards, why did they not go to the private yards? If they considered superannuation and allowances worth so little, why did they remain? No doubt the work in the Government yards was admirably done; the only fault was that enough was not done. When hon. Members associated with Government dockyards advocated an advance of wages, they
 1876
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If he is aware that the Schedules prepared by the Board of Trade, calling upon the owners of live stock to make a return thereof on the 5th day of March, have never been issued in many townships; and how he purposes to insure an accurate return of Cattle throughout the country on a given day?
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, that there were to his knowledge many townships in which the occupiers had not had the returns sent to them.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that
 16
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : The land was purchased in 1860 from the Duke of Newcastle. The extent was twenty-one acres, and the price £5,200.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that directions had been given for the preparation of similar Electoral Returns for Scotland as had been furnished for England. He could not name the precise day when they would be ready, but ample time would be given for their consideration.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have now, Sir, to ask that those paragraphs of THE QUEEN'S SPEECH that relate to the electoral franchise may be read at the table.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  again rose and said—Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, if in order to estimate justly the difficulties of the question which I have now to bring before you it be right, as I suppose, to take into view not only its own extent and complexity, and not only the strange fluctuation of circumstances which has attended and marked its history, but also the weakness of the hands into which the treatment of it has fallen, then, perhaps, I may well say that few Ministers have risen in recent years to address this House under greater difficulties than those which at this moment attend my own position and my present task. Sir, those difficulties are difficulties which I am conscious affect in the first instance Her Majesty's Government; and they are perfectly sensible of the weight of responsibility which attaches to them. But although they be concentrated in their greatest weight upon us, yet they are not ours alone. The interest in the successful solution of this question is an interest common to the whole House of Commons, and to every party, and every section of a party that sits within these walls. For, Sir, let me remind you that those paragraphs which we have just heard read are not the only paragraphs in which, under the most solemn form known to the Constitution, the subject of the representation of the people has been brought under the notice of Parliament. By no less than five Administrations, and in no less than five Queen's Speeches before that of the present year, the House of Commons has been acquainted by the Sovereign, under the advice of her constitutionally appointed Ministers, that the time, in their judgment, had arrived when the representation of the people ought to undergo revision. It is needless to refer to the terms of those Speeches severally; but it will at once be recollected that they have not been delivered exclusively at periods when Ministers taken from one side of the House were in power. In 1859, and in 1860, by both parties each in its turn, those solemn pledges were given in the face of the country. And, Sir, having much, I fear, to state to the House, I shall not, under the
 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 "He and his friends desired, in short, not delay, but that deep and deliberate investigation of a great subject which was in accordance with the freedom of discussion by which the Parliament of England was characterized." 28 29 30 s. s. 31 32 33
 MR. BRIGHT : What will be the proportion—how much for the house, and how much for the land?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  There must be a house; and if the house is inhabited by the man there is no stipulation as to its value; while if it is not inhabited by the man, it must be worth £6 at least, or one-half of the county qualification. And I will now pass to the question of the franchise in boroughs. 35 36 37 38 39 40 simpli-citer. 41 42 "And this I will say, that, if you will propose any of the measures that have been mentioned this evening, either for raising the franchise by making it a rating instead of a rental franchise, or by increasing the amount of the rental, or, in another way that has been pointed out, by admitting a great number of voters who are distinguished by property, or by a high degree of knowledge from those belonging to the working classes, any proposition of the kind shall be fairly considered by us in Committee. We certainly shall not declare ourselves so completely wedded to the franchise which we have put forward that we will not submit to treat on the subject. If in Committee such a proposal as I have alluded to be made, and if the House should prefer it to that which we have originated, it will be our duty to see whether the Bill with such an alteration would be a valuable measure, whether it would extend the franchise in a manner that would strengthen the institutions of the country; and, in that case, though we might not think it a change for the better, we should be ready to adopt that alteration."—[3  Hansard, 43 44 45
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : What is the estimated number that will be added by these provisions?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : We believe there will be an addition of probably 35,000 persons to the constituency in consequence of the provisions, we propose to make respecting compound householders above the line of £10, nearly the whole of that addition being in the metropolis. The estimate, I think, is sufficiently near to accuracy, because we have ascertained the number of houses in the different parishes
 46 s, 47 s. 48 49 50 per se, s. 51 primâ facie 52 53 Laughter from the Opposition Members. 54 s. s. s. s. s. s. 55 s. 56 57 pro tanto, 58 59 monstrum infelix "—Scandit fatalis machina muros, Fœta armis: mediæque minans illabitur urbi." 60
 MR. MARSH  said, he looked upon the measure which had just been so eloquently described to them as the beginning of the end. There had been no petitions presented in favour of a £7 franchise, and very few in favour of a £6 franchise. The tendency of the proposed Bill was towards universal suffrage; and he appealed to the right hon. Gentleman (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) himself whether it did not tend to that result? It was said that that measure would settle this question; but he (Mr. Marsh) maintained that, on the contrary, it was just such a measure as would keep it unsettled. The right hon. Gentleman himself had expressed the opinion that a £6 franchise would swamp the existing constituencies; and yet the £7 proposal was not very different from it. He thought the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) would hail the proposal as a step towards universal suffrage. The right hon. Gentleman said that the class of voters who came in under the lower franchises frequently voted for Conservative candidates. That might possibly happen in quiet times; but suppose there came a great political fight, instead of being on the Conservative side they would be on the other side, and the greater need there was for Conservatism the less Conservative would they be. Look at what had happened in Australia, where a popular House of Assembly, overriding everything, raised money without the consent of the other branch of the Legislature. He believed the fact to be that a very small number of the Members of that House really desired Reform; while those who did really desire Reform were those who wished to bring the country to the lowest level of democracy. And why did they wish for democracy? They wished for it simply because they had some particular hobbies to ride. At one time that hobby was for financial economy, at another peace throughout the world; but he denied that
 61 62 63 "While all Melbourne was absorbed in a cricket match a furious debate was taking place in the House, on the Motion of Mr. Barton, that a sum of money should be placed on the Estimates for the payment of Members." "All disguise as to the motives of the Mover and his friends was cast off. It was explicitly declared that the popular Members could not live without appropriating the public money." "One hon. Gentleman was charged by another with uttering words 'grossly untrue.' The Speaker having called him to order, he substituted the words 'utterly false,' which was also objected to. He then tries 'untrue,' with no better success, and ultimately is allowed to characterize the statement as not in accordance with fact."
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the 12-ton rifle guns were fired 135 rounds before they were proved, and as continuously as the state of the tide at Shoeburyness would admit. The same gun was afterwards fired 315 rounds, and the accuracy of the guns had been fully maintained. A Select Committee had reported
 17
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman seemed to think that the doctrine held by the Government was that the approval of the Mutiny Bill by the House was a mere matter of form. That was not the case; but, as the words were from year to year unchanged, it was not deemed necessary to print the Bill. His noble Friend had inquired into the matter, and he thought that by making arrangements for greater dispatch in the office of the Judge Advocate General, where the Bill was prepared, it could hereafter be printed and rendered accessible to Members. It would be unnecessary to circulate copies among the Members, but all who wished to see the Bill would be able to do so before the second reading.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  observed, that no discourtesy was meant by the Government towards the hon. Member for Finsbury in suggesting that his Bill should be referred to a Select Committee, while they did not propose that course in the case of their own Bill. The fact was the Government Bill contained no novelty, but only enlarged a principle already recognized.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he cheerfully adopted the suggestion of the Government, and would be glad to have his Bill thoroughly examined by a Select Committee composed of Gentlemen from both sides of the House.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to offer a few remarks, although he was conscious that, as this was a question of first-rate importance, the House was naturally looking to those who had had greater experience for an expression of opinion in regard to it. The interest manifested by the vast assemblage which thronged within those walls two hours previously, and the tones of just solemnity in which the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced the measure proved the magnitude of the question and the large share of attention which it merited. Indeed, the discussion of a measure affecting our
 64 65 66 67 "I will not enter into the question whether the precise form of franchise and the precise figure which my hon. Friend has indicated is that which, upon full deliberation, we ought to choose; but this I say, not to be misunderstood, that I give my cordial concurrence to the proposition that there ought to be, not a wholesale, but a sensible and considerable addition to that portion of the working classes—at present almost infinitesimal—which is in possession of the franchise. What is the present state of the constituency, any departure from which some hon. Gentlemen deprecate as a 'domestic revolution?' At present we have, generally speaking, a constituency of which between one-tenth and one-twentieth—certainly less than one-tenth—consists of working men. And what proportion does that fraction of the working classes who are in possession of the franchise bear to the whole body of the working men? I apprehend that I am correct in saying that they are less than one-fiftieth of the whole working classes. On the other hand, my hon. Friend indicates that kind of extension of the suffrage which would make the working classes a sensible fraction of the borough constituency—an important fraction, but still a small minority."—[ See Hansard, "There would be great advantage in making some change, but I cannot vote for the £10 franchise provided by the Bill. The two principal
 68 See Hansard,
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  (Rochester) , expressed his earnest hope that the Government would not detract from the value of their measure by attempting disfranchisement as well as enfranchisement. He now offered a word or two in support of the claims of the  employés 69 employé employés, "Hunc neque dira venena, nec hosticus auferet ensis: Garrulus hunc quando consumet cumque loquaces, Si sapiat, vitet." 70
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, his conviction was that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was perfectly correct last Session when he said that not more than one-tenth of the working classes had the franchise at present, and the statistics now placed before the House were, owing to the nature of the instructions given for their preparation, not such as to controvert that fact. He was sorry that the Government had not gone further in the way of extending the franchise, and proposed a £10 franchise for counties and a £6 franchise for boroughs. At the same time, considering the great fear entertained by hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House, and by some on the Ministerial side, he believed that the Ministry had honestly dealt with the subject, and on that account he would support them; and he believed they would also have the support of the great body of Reformers throughout the country. What was wanted in respect to this question was honesty—a proposition not made for mere popularity, but for the purpose of removing evils admitted on all sides. The Bill of 1832 was not fitted for 1866, as great progress in education, in prudential habits, as shown by the Savings Banks Returns, and in various other respects had been made by the working classes. He felt confident that the working men were as well qualified for the franchise now as the £10 householders were in 1832; and he was satisfied that it was not safe to exclude from the franchise large bodies of men as well fitted to exercise it as those who now possessed it. He trusted that the present Parliament, before it came to an end, would deal with the other question of the distribution of seats. At the same time, he conceived that the Government were quite right in dealing with the franchise in one Bill, and leaving the distribution of seats to be comprehended in another measure. He was of opinion that the good sense of the House would acknowledge that the Bill had been prepared with great care, and that it would settle the question for a long time. The hon. Baronet who had just spoken (Sir James Fergusson), spoke of the Bill as only a step—but if in 1832 a step had not been taken we should have had a revolution. This Bill was another step in the same direction, and in like
 71
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer—from whose speech he trusted it was only an accidental omission—to a matter of great interest to his constituents and to the electors in all large cities where business was carried on—he referred to the operation of the seven-mile radius, which acted as a virtual disfranchisement to many persons who carried on their business in London, paying rent and rates, but were not privileged to vote because they did not live within the seven-mile radius. In the last Reform Act that distance was adopted as representing the time it would take a voter residing within such a radius to come up to poll, and also it was directed against non-resident freemen. Now, however, merchants who lived thirty miles off could reach the polling place in as little time as it formerly took them by coach with the distance of seven miles. He also wished to know whether it was intended that copyholders and leaseholders in cities and towns should be kept out of the town register and transferred entirely to the county register. The abolition of the rate-paying clause and the lodger franchise would afford great facilities to compound householders in the City of London, and would meet with general approval. In the middle course which the Government had steered he thought that they would obtain a very great amount of support from those who represented the metropolitan constituencies.
 MR. SERJEANT GASELEE , though a little satisfied with the Bill, thought it had a decided blot upon it because it proposed to disfranchise dockyard voters. A petition presented against the return of himself and colleague had been withdrawn, and he believed there was not the slightest pretence for any of the numerous charges brought against them in that petition. He protested against disfranchising this class of voters, men respectable and excellent in their way, while those freemen who engaged in every kind of corrupt practice, and were a disgrace to the country, remained on the register. So far from approving this part of the Bill, he thought
 72
 MR. DUTTON  said, that though he must admit that this was hardly the time for discussing the merits of the Bill, he wished at the earliest opportunity to refer to one or two of its provisions. He agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just spoken (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) in what he said about the dockyard men. He was not a dockyard representative, but he happened to know a great many of those men, and he was at a loss to understand why by a measure for admitting so many of the working classes to the franchise, a number of the most intelligent of that class should be disfranchised. He knew that in a letter from Devonport the other day it was suggested that the dockyard men there ought to be disfranchised; but, perhaps, it was thought that they ought to lose their votes because they had returned two Conservatives. He concurred with an hon. Member who preceded him, that as the Government had resolved upon descending from £50 to £14 in counties, and from £10 to £7 in boroughs, it was scarcely worth their while stopping short in their concession to those who were demanding a still further reduction of the franchise. He was not afraid of the working man; but as he read the statistics placed before them that night it appeared to him that, throwing in the large boroughs and the small ones of the counties, and taking the average of all, the working men in those boroughs had 26 per cent of the representation in their hands; and that if the large towns—and it was found there the cry for Reform principally came—were taken by themselves, the working men had 40 or 50 per cent of the representation. As to the fancy franchise, the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed that there should be qualification arising from the possession of £50 in a savings bank. Now he could not see to what class of men that qualification could be of any use. No working man could afford to keep £50 in a savings bank; and a tradesman in a small business would not keep such a sum in a savings bank, because he could employ it in his trade at a profit of from 12 to 15 per cent. In practice, the use which would be made of that provision in the Bill would be by persons who would keep £50 in a savings bank with a view of obtaining a vote without complying with the condi-
 73
 SIR HENRY HOARE  was of opinion that the Bill was excellent as far as it went. There was no danger to be apprehended from the admission to the franchise of the men to whom the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to give votes. But the House were now rather in the position of persons to whom a carriage was presented without horses. He hoped they would have a positive promise of something to draw this Reform carriage, and that what they were hereafter to get in that way would not be an engine which would pull them off the line. Those who appeared to have prompted this Bill would also seem to have copied from the history of England the example of all leaders of the people who had preceded them. All leaders of the people from the time of Jack Cade to the present day had shown distrust of the landed proprietors. That leader made it one of the grievances of the men of Kent that the free expression of the will of the people in the election of the knights of the shire was interfered with by the proprietors of the land. He thought that one of the great blots in our present electoral system was the inadequate representation of that portion of the population who lived in counties. He and many hon. Gentlemen on his side of the House had given pledges which they meant to redeem; but it was painful to be placed on the horns of a dilemma. They must redeem their promises; but in doing so they might be obliged to go further than they thought safe, or originally intended. Unless there was a distinct pledge on the part of the Government that a measure for the redistribution of seats would be introduced, he should feel bound to vote against this Bill at a future stage.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had misgivings in respect to the  paulo-post futuro 74 75
 MR. HANBURY  desired to say, as the representative of a large constituency (Middlesex), that he thought the Bill would meet all the requirements of those whom he represented. He was not at all afraid of the working man. He had for the last twenty-five years employed a great number of working men, and he could say from his experience of them that a more respectable or intelligent class did not exist. He did not think their object was to advance the democratic movement or to impair the Constitution, for the advantages which they derived from that Constitution were equal to those derived from it by the middle and upper class. He was rather surprised at the objection which had been stated by some, that the Bill was not a double-barrelled one. He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had proved beyond a doubt that time would not allow of such a measure being brought forward. If the Bill had been more comprehensive they all knew what the result would have been. Reserving his opinion on the details, he could not help expressing at once his general approval of the Bill.
 MR. LAING  said, although the time had not arrived for pronouncing a definite opinion upon the whole important question submitted to them this evening, it might not be useless to express a view upon it so far as it involved a clear definite issue on which, no doubt, all had made up their minds. That issue was, the question of re-opening the great Reform settlement of 1832 by a measure which, on the face of it, was not a complete and final settlement. The Chancellor of the Exchequer made, to his mind, one of the most conclusive speeches he ever heard; but the conclusion was entirely different from that which he meant to convey; for it brought home to his (Mr. Laing's) mind most forcibly the impolicy of the decision to which the Government had come in introducing a measure at that period of the Session, when there was not time to give full and fair consideration to the whole subject. The Chancellor of the Exchequer admitted that the Returns had been procured so late that they were only in a complete printed form even in his own hands on the Friday evening which preceded the introduction of the Bill. He could easily believe it, for if those Returns had been in the possession of the Govern-
 76 77 élite 78 79 80 81 82 83 84
 MR. BAINES  said, he was sorry to interpose between the hon. and gallant Member for Westminster (Captain Grosvenor) and the House, especially as he was a new Member, but after the intimation he had repeatedly received from the Chair it would not have been proper for him (Mr. Baines) to forego his claim. He had taken a lively interest in the question of Reform, but would detain the House only a few minutes. It appeared to him that the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing) had proved too much. He had undertaken the task of proving that no practical grievance existed in this country such as to call for any amendment of the existing electoral system; yet the latter half of his speech consisted of an exposure of the absurd and glaring anomalies attaching to the present distribution of seats, and for the redress of which he contended. Now, this was surely a practical grievance, and sufficiently refuted the former portion of his speech. It should, however, be remembered that the same thing had been said years ago by a much greater man. In 1830 the Duke of Wellington affirmed that no conceivable form of representation could exceed in excellence and adaptation to its ends the then existing system; while the Reform Act of 1832 was declared by the Conservative party in Parliament to be nothing less than a revolution, and calculated to subject the intelligence and education of the country to the ascendancy of the uneducated classes and the mob-
 85 Laughter. 86 87
 CAPTAIN GROSVENOR  said, he must express his regret that his first rising to address that House had given rise to a proceeding so much out of order as to call for a remonstrance from the leader of the Opposition, and he begged to apologize both to the hon. Gentleman in the Chair, and to the hon. Member who just sat down for any discourtesy of which he might unwittingly have been guilty. He asked for a large amount of that indulgence usually accorded to hon. Members while they committed that first fault which public school tradition allowed to go unpunished. He felt called upon to make a few observations on the question before them as the representative of one of those great constituencies which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had characterized, in the course of his opening statement, as notorious for their attachment to questions of a liberal tendency. In the course of the month of
 88 89 90
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, there are two subjects of sincere congratulation which will come home to hon. Members; the first is that we have at last the long expected Government Reform Bill before us, and the next is that it is so extremely satisfactory to the advanced Reformers. My hon. Friend the Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines), as representing those advanced Reformers, is now in a very happy state of mind because the Government has reproduced his single-barrelled Bill, which would not go off last year, respecting the borough franchise, only considerably cut down; and he accepts it, if I understand him rightly, according to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer who proposed it, as a settlement of the question. But I must remind my hon. Friend, in passing, that he very much misunderstood the arguments of the speech of the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing). He did not say in that able and argumentative speech that there were no anomalies in our electoral system; but what he said was this—that there were much greater anomalies in the state of the representation with regard to the boroughs than in the suffrage; that you are beginning at the wrong end, that you are dealing with the smaller anomalies first, and therefore necessitating a new agitation, further demands, and greater changes. But I do not intend to enter into the provisions of the measure. The Chancellor of the Exchequer, at the commencement of his address, reminded us of that paragraph in the Queen's Speech which referred to this subject. He told us that this was no isolated measure, but one of an historical character, associated with the memories and the mishaps, with the obligations and the defalcations of former Cabinets, with Royal Speeches which mocked the nation, and Parliamentary pledges which played with constituents; and he made this reference to the past partly as an apology for the Government again embarking on an enter-
 91 92 93 94 95 96 "His Colleagues preferred their places to their honour as public men, and they consented to the greatest political fraud of our time rather than leave the Treasury Bench even for a season." 97 "Some one has said that the Ministry is very much the same as it was—I venture to say it is very different. I think I know almost every Member of the Administration, and many of them with that kind of intimacy which comes from long attendance in the House of Commons, and I should say that it is composed" 98 "It is composed of men more entitled to public confidence probably than any other Ministry of our time." "To-day 'tis black—to-morrow white—next day 'Tis neither black, nor white, but dingy grey." 99 100 101 102 "We are unwilling to look to the future. The circumstances are so varied that we must look to that future itself for proper opportunities of dealing with these important questions." 103 104 105 "The next Ministry attempting to deal with tin; Reform Question must be supported by a popular breeze not only to carry a measure through the House of Commons, but strong enough to carry it over the Bar of the House of Lords." 106 107 108 109 110 111 "I shall take the course of addressing myself to this question according to the light I have with regard to it from great study, from much consultation with others, and from an honest wish that I have that the question of Reform should be rightly viewed by every intelligent man among my countrymen. Now, we will mention two or three things that we do not want. We do not propose in the smallest degree to call in question or to limit the prerogatives of the Crown. I believe we are prepared to say that if the Throne of England be filled with so much dignity and so much purity as we have known it in our time, and as we know it now to be, we hope that the venerable monarchy may be perpetual." "We do not propose even to discuss, much less
 112 113 Laughter and cries of Cries of Laughter. 114
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : There can be no objection on the part of the Government to the adjournment of this debate under the present circumstances of the discussion, but it is exceedingly desirable that we should proceed with the debate to-morrow. My hon. Friend the Member for Kilkenny (Sir John Gray) has, however, a Motion on the paper relating to the important question of the Irish Church Establishment, and I, therefore, appeal to him if he will be kind enough to waive that Motion. ["No, no!"] In the event of the hon. Gentleman failing to be successful in the ballot to-mor-
 115
 SIR JOHN GRAY : I shall be most happy to do everything in my power to accommodate the right hon. Gentleman, and I should be very sorry to interfere with this measure. If, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman will name any day positively for my Motion, I shall be glad to accede to his request.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If the hon. Gentleman fails in the ballot, we will undertake to give him a day.
 MR MORLEY  expressed his opinion that buildings such as those the erection of which was contemplated by the Bill could be erected so as to give a fair return for the money expended on them, but he thought the rate of interest proposed was too high.
 SIR MINTO FARQUHAR  said, there were very good reasons why the Government should not lend money at a lower rate than was now proposed. He thought that the Government Bill also ought to be referred to a Select Committee, who would have the measure proposed by the hon. Member for Finsbury before them.
 MR. KINNAIRD  also thought it advisable to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. It was not the metropolis alone that was looking to this measure. His hon. Friend the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) intended to move an Amendment with the view of making the Bill applicable to Scotland.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that two of the architects invited to send in designs for the new Courts of Justice—namely, Mr. Wyatt and Mr. Hardwicke—had declined to do so, and two others had the invitation still under consideration. The specifications, which contained elaborate details, had been prepared by the architectural clerk of the Board of Works. The time fixed for sending in the designs was the end of October. With regard to the National Gallery, it was intended to receive designs from a limited number of architects, suggesting the best way in which the ground in the rear of the National Gallery might be disposed of, and also a plan showing how, if it were determined to demolish altogether the building in Trafalgar Square, another building might be erected more convenient for the purposes of a National Gallery, and more ornamental. There was no intention to abandon the designs of the late Captain Fowke for the new buildings at Kensington. Mr. Water-house had been engaged to act in Captain Fowke's behalf, and to superintend the erection of the building. With regard to the Law Courts, the arrangements were not yet in such a state as to give any information, but plenty of time would be given for consideration before any step was taken by the Government.
 MR. AYRTON  hoped it would be understood that in reading the Bill a second time the House did not pledge themselves to any particular scheme. There was no principle recognized beyond the latent desire that people should get better houses, for until the House saw the provisions by which it was proposed to give effect to that desire, they were not pledged to anything. His own opinion was that the building of houses for the people in towns was an extremely profitable undertaking; and he believed that the people could do much for themselves in this way if the Government amended the Acts relating to investments.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  called attention to the circumstance that the Bill had not been printed, and urged the importance of its being printed and circulated among the Members in future.
 MR. AKROYD  thought 4 per cent was higher than ought to be charged by the Government. The rate of interest charged ought not to be higher than 3½ per cent. A good deal had been done in this direction by benefit building societies. That was the agency which he thought ought to be employed in the erection of improved buildings for the working classes. He had employed that agency himself. He thought from the two Bills together a very good measure might be produced.
 MR. CAVENDISH BENTINCK  said, he rose to ask the First Commissioner of Works, What course Her Majesty's Government intend to pursue with reference to the new building for the National Gallery; whether a competition of architects has been invited, and who has been selected to compete; whether any definite period has been fixed for the exhibition of the competing designs, and who is to make the final award; whether any of the architects designated to compete for the new Courts of Justice have declined the proposed competition; by whom the Instructions in the form of a Blue Book, furnished to the competing architects, have been prepared; and, what date has been fixed for sending in the plans?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether any of the 12-ton guns rifled upon the Woolwich pattern, and now being served out to Her Majesty's Ships, have been submitted to the test of continuous firing, such as would occur during a bombardment; whether the range and accuracy of such guns have been fully ascertained by either separate or competitive proof; and whether it has been represented to the War Office that the steel tubes rifled on the Woolwich system of those guns will not be able to stand, without injury or destruction, such a test?
 MR. CHILDERS , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, he hoped the House would allow him to state, in fulfilment of his pledge, the manner in which the Labouring Classes' Dwellings Bill differed from the Bill of the hon. Member for
 116 117
 MR. LOCKE  said, the principle of the Bill was clearly admitted. It would be absolutely necessary that there should be some intervention on the part of the Government, in order that many wretched abodes should be destroyed, and others of a more suitable character erected.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that in consequence of the notice he had received of the Question of the hon. and gallant Admiral he had made inquiries of those charged with the duty of issuing the schedules, and there was every reason to believe that the officers charged with the duty of issuing schedules for the return of live stock had complied with their instructions, and had sent schedules to all occupiers of land whose names appeared on the Land Assessment Returns. The only persons to whom they had not been sent were some small occupiers, being sub-tenants or persons described as occupiers of houses and gardens. In those cases steps had been taken to ascertain the number of their live stock.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council on Education, If he can give any information as to whether the disease said to have broken out among sheep in some parts in Scotland had in any instance been reported by competent authority to be identical with Rinderpest?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Electoral Statistics, similar to those laid on the table on Saturday for England, are in course of preparation for the rest of the United Kingdom; and, if so, when they will be ready?
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  thought that it would be expedient to grant powers to local authorities in small towns beyond the limits of the metropolis to purchase bad buildings. Could not the provisions of the present Bill be grafted on the Local Government Act?
 SIR ROBERT CLIFTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, The date of the purchase of land at Nottingham for site of Barracks, from whom it was purchased, the extent of land, and price paid?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Secretary of State for War, What Reports have been made by Commanding Officers of Regiments to whom Merritt's Ventilating Gussets were issued with the regimental clothing in 1864, and whether he will lay them upon the table of the House?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that those articles were issued during the last year for trial to six regiments The Reports with regard to them would not be received till after the 31st of the present month. There would be no objection to laying the Reports on the table.
 MR. CRUME-WING  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether, in consequence of a recent decision of the House of Peers, finding the practice which has prevailed in several Parochial Boards, in times of general distress, of granting at their own discretion assistance to able-bodied persons to be illegal, it is his intention to introduce such a measure as will render those proceedings lawful?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he understood the Question of the hon. Member to relate to a recent decision in regard to the right to give relief to the able-bodied poor, and he had to state that it was his intention to bring in a Bill on the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said, the attention of the Government had been called to that subject—as one of very considerable interest and importance—by the parties connected with one or both of the Bills now before that House. One of those Bills related to the town of Bradford, the other to the city of Manchester, and their object was to enable municipal bodies to establish municipal savings banks. Considering that the Government were themselves directly interested through their connection with two systems of savings banks—namely, both the old and the Post Office savings banks—hehad felt a certain delicacy as to interfering with those proposals, and was exceedingly anxious that they should be brought fully under the notice of the House, so that the House might pass its own impartial judgment upon them, because it was quite clear that the Government ought not to be allowed to object to them upon the ground of competition, while, on the other hand, the question was one of very considerable importance, and it was very desirable that the attention of the House should be called to it. However, as the matter did not appear to have been taken up in that House, the Government had been in communication with the parties. There could be no doubt whatever as to the security which those municipal bodies might offer for any deposits intrusted to them. One or two other points were perhaps more doubtful. It was doubtful whether that was a question altogether to be dealt with by a private or by a public Bill; but it was quite plain, upon principle, that what one municipality might claim another municipality might claim also. The other point was what means municipal bodies who had no ordinary banking facilities could possess for the immediate satisfaction of all claims which might be made against them. He could only say that his right hon. Friend (the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster) had been in communication with the gentlemen who were interested in the prosecution of the Bills referred to, and he hoped that in a few days he would be able to arrive at some conclusion in the matter. In that event he would convey
 137
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that in many instances it was very difficult to decide whether a Bill should be treated as a private or a public Bill, and no Member of the Government was any authority in determining the matter. He presumed, however, that on a future occasion the Government would state distinctly its views in reference to the Bills in question. He felt that the subject was one of great public interest, and he had no hesitation in saying that it would have been much more satisfactory to him if they had been dealt with as public Bills.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that during the last six months the attention of the Veterinary Department of the Privy Council had been specially directed to this subject, and during that time twenty-six different phases of the outbreak of what was supposed to be the rinderpest had been reported in eleven different counties, as many as nine occurring in the county of Nor folk alone. The conclusion at which the veterinary surgeons of the Privy Council had arrived at, was that the disease was identical with the rinderpest among cattle. The soundness of this conclusion was greatly doubted in various parts of the country, but especially in Scotland. He would, therefore, briefly state the grounds upon which the veterinary surgeons had arrived at their conclusion. The first experiment made was upon a sheep confined in a pen in which a cow had died of the rinderpest, and the sheep was attacked by the disease and died. The next experiment was more conclusive. At the Veteri-
 138 virus, virus,
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : Professor Simonds and Professor Brown.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  replied that the steps taken were identically the same with those which had been taken with regard to cattle.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND  (Mr. Lawson) said, there were now several vacancies in the Senate of the Queen's University. The number pre-scribed by the Charter was twenty-four, but not more than eighteen had been appointed. There were now two vacancies occasioned by deaths, one of which would be filled up by the Crown, and the other
 139
 MR. BARING  said, in reply, that effect had been given to a certain extent to the recommendations of the Report referred to by the hon. Gentleman. With respect to the general recommendations of the Committee, however, it would be more convenient to the House that any lengthy explanation which might be necessary-should be deferred till the second reading of the Bill dealing with those matters.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I will give the hon. and learned Member the best answer in my power. If the debate on the Electoral Franchise Bill be concluded to-night, and the Bill be brought in, our intention is to propose its second reading on the 12th of April, which is regarded as the first day for the dispatch of serious and important business after the Easter recess. Our intention then is to prosecute the proceedings consequent on the second reading of the Bill to their completion without any inter-
 140
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that there were at present thirty-five pairs of horses engaged in Woolwich Arsenal at a cost of 8 s d
 MR. LOWE : Sir, in the course of a long and illustrious career this House of Commons has gathered into its hands a very large proportion of the political power of the country. It has outlived the influence of the Crown; it has shaken off the dictation of the aristocracy; in finance and taxation it is supreme; it has a very large share in legislation; it can control and unmake, and sometimes nearly make, the executive Government. Probably, when the time shall arrive that the history of this nation shall be written as the history of that which has passed away, it may be thought that too much power and too much influence were concentrated and condensed in this great Assembly, and that England put too much to hazard on the personal qualifications of those who sit within these walls'. But, Sir, in proportion as the powers of the House of Commons are great and paramount, so does the exploit of endeavouring to amend its constitution become one of the highest and noblest efforts of statesmanship. To tamper with it lightly, to deal with it with unskilled hands, is one of the most signal acts of presumption or folly. When we speak of a Reform Bill, when we speak of giving the franchise to a class which has it not, of transferring the electoral power from one place to another, we should always bear in mind that the end we ought to have in view is not the class which receives the franchise, not the district that obtains the power of sending Members to Parliament, but that Parliament itself in which those Members are to sit, and for
 142 143 144 145 "But may there not be still improvements?" "Each of the last four Ministries have been willing to add as it were a supplement to the Reform Act. For my part, I should be glad to see the sound morals and clear intelligence of the working classes more fully represented. They are kept out of the franchise, which Ministers of I the Crown have repeatedly asked for them, partly by the jealousy of the present holders of the suffrage, and partly by a vague fear that, by their greater numbers, they will swallow up all other classes. Both those obstacles may be removed by a judicious modification of the proposed suffrage." 146 147 148 149 150 "Repudiate without mercy any Bill of any Governments whatever its franchise, whatever its seeming concession, may be, if it does not distribute the seats which are obtained by the extinction of small boroughs mainly among the great cities and towns of the kingdom."
 MR. BRIGHT : What are you reading from?
 MR. LOWE : I will tell the hon. Member. But he has made so many speeches that it is not always easy to distinguish which, I am quoting from the speech delivered by him in 1859 at Bradford. There is a little bit more yet. He says—
 "The question of distribution is the very soul of the question, and unless you get that you will be deceived, and when the Bill is passed you may possibly have to lament that you are not in the position in which you would wish to find yourselves," 151 152 153
 MR. BRIGHT : I do not know whether the right hon. Gentleman was at that meeting; but I say that there is not a word of truth in the statement. Lord Russell has never said one word to me that would in any way inform me what the opinion of any Member of his Cabinet was I have no recollection of having said anything such as the right hon. Gentleman alleges. If he is quoting anything that he has read, it is something which I never said—something which was incorrectly reported.
 MR. LOWE : I have no wish to persevere in attributing anything to the hon. Gentleman which he denies having said. What I have quoted I read in  The Star, The Star "His honour in rooted dishonour stood, And faith unfaithful made him falsely true." 154 solvitur ambulando; à priori à priori à priori, 155 156 157 158 159 160 161 The Times "I am quite willing, for the sake of this argument, to answer 'none.' Nevertheless, I reply, even if that be so, the passing of a Reform Bill is a positive advantage," 162 de novo 163 repertoire "Scandit fatalis machina muros, Fœta armis," 164 sortes Virgilianœ, "O Divum domus Ilium, et inclyta bello Mœnia Dardanidum! Quater ipso in limina portæ Substitit, atque utero sonitum quater arma dedêre." "Instamus tamen immemores, cæcique furore, Et monstrum infelix sacratâ sistimua arce."
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, I fear that after the applause which the able address of the right hon. Gentleman has just received, it will appear somewhat presumptuous in me to follow him; but it is, I assure him, from no want of respect for his influence, but the contrary, that prompts me, as a Member of the Government, to make a few observations upon some things that he has said, and in the first place let me say, that amidst so much in which I differ from him that there was one suggestion that he proposed to us in the propriety of which I entirely agree. He observed that on this question we should endeavour, if possible, to regard ourselves as the world outside are regarding us. That, Sir, is a wholesome maxim, and I would especially recommend it for re-consideration by my right hon. Friend himself—for I do not hesitate to say that
 165 166 167 168 169 "At the time of the Reform Bill, in placing the right of voting in householders where the value was £10 a year, we did what I think it was right to do, and what it was our duty to do, we placed the suffrage rather higher than it was necessary to fix it."—[3  Hansard, 170 "The objection is this, that it severs all connection between the lower classes of the community and the direct representation in this House, and he asked him to consider what would be the effect of cutting off altogether the communication between this House and that class which is above pauperism, and below the arbitrary line of £10 rental. He said he (Lord Russell) ought to be cautious how he subjected a great, powerful, and intelligent mass of our population to the injury, if not the stigma, of uncompensated exclusion."—[3  Hansard, "When I know that my fellow-countrymen, the working men of this country, were within the last thirty years considerably improved in everything that distinguishes men and makes them safe subjects, I do not think it a degradation to a borough or to any other constituency that a portion to those fellow-countrymen should have through that legitimate channel a share in the franchise."—[3  Hansard, 171 "What prospect of tranquillity did this measure hold out to the country? In each succeeding year would the registering barrister go his round scattering dissension as be went along. The seed time of discord would come round as regularly as the seed time of husbandry, and would, he feared, produce a much more certain and abundant harvest. We should have the worst curse of the American system without its [3  Howard, "He believed that the other House of Parliament could not save themselves though they threw up the National Debt, the Corn Laws, the Church, the Courts of Justice; and all the arguments which had been heard in that House upon the question of Reform went all equally against an hereditary peerage. There was no stopping, no holding back, until we had sacrificed first our agricultural system, then our courts of law, then our Church, then the public creditor, until nothing was left to tell even of the wreck of our former glory."—[3  Hansard, "If this Rill shall, unhappily, pass and become a law, I will assert—and I believe it from the bottom of my heart, and that reluctant belief has been formed after the most anxious and agonizing reflections—that it will put an extensive power in the hands, not of the people, but of the populace, who will soon destroy their own work like a toy, and scatter to the winds all those complicated and contradictory clauses which it has cost you two painful and fruitless years to frame. But will it
 172 Hansard, "One consequence of this Bill would be to crowd their table with petitions upon the questions of Indian Government and Indian trade, which might eventually lead to most disastrous consequences."—[3  Hansard, "The arguments urged against this Bill would apply with equal force against any plan of Reform whatever. A large majority of the Opposition called themselves moderate Reformers, but the objections which they offered to the present Bill could be applied to any measure of practical Reform. They talked of anomalies; could any plan of Reform be devised in which anomalies would not exist? … They might take population, or assessed taxes, or whatever test they pleased, but there would always, as they had already seen, be mathematicians ready to prove that their mode of computation would produce anomalies.… It, therefore, became moderate Reformers who objected to the Bill on the ground of anomalies to consider whether any plan of moderate Reform could be produced in which there would not be no anomalies.… Of every plan of Reform it might be said that it was the first step to revolution. It would always afford an opportunity of making allusions to the scenes of the French revolution—to the guillotine, to heads carried upon pikes, and all the horrors of that eventful period."—[3  Hansard, "There was no universal form which could be assured of good Government. He would not make institutions for all ages and all nations. He gave his assent to the Bill because he thought it was adapted to this country at present; but he should think it unsuitable, because too democratic, for Hindustan, and because not democratic enough for New York. He had no more idea that a Government could be called good which was not in unison with the feelings, habits, and opinions of the people governed, than that a coat could be called good which was not suited to the size or shape of the person for whom it was in-
 173 Hansard, 174 175 176 177 178
 MR. R. F. PHILIPS  said, he was not one of those who thought that, they were sent to the House pledged to vote for others and to carry out laws of which they did not approve:—he was not sent to this House by reason of any pledges, but by reason of the conviction of the constituents that, having passed his life amongst them, he would feel it his duty to stand up for their rights. In periods of privation and distress the working people had proved themselves worthy of the confidence of their fellow-countrymen, and they felt themselves aggrieved at not having a fair share in the representation. Knowing this, and knowing the difficulty the Government had in bringing forward a measure that would have any probability of passing, he, for one, begged to tender to the Government the expression of his intense gratitude to them for introducing one that would admit so large an additional number connected with the working classes to the franchise. In the borough which he represented (Bury), the constituents would be increased from 1,300 by the addition of about 400, and he would feel his own position enhanced in representing so much larger a number. He also thanked the Government for the bold manner in which they had come forward to make a change in the county franchise. It had been thought by many that the £10 franchise was best; but he considered that which, had been proposed deserved the support of all Liberals both moderate and advanced. He should give the measure of the Government his cordial support.
 MR. LEATHAM  thanked the Government for the courage they had shown in bringing in this Bill. He was one of those who always wished to see the working classes fairly represented, and he thought that a percentage of the working men might; have been permitted to be selected by them-I selves and placed on the electoral roll. He therefore thanked the Government for their courage in bringing in a Bill which would add 144,000 of the working classes to the constituencies. Many were afraid of admitting them, not because they doubted
 179
 MR. ARTHUR PEEL  said, it was with considerable diffidence that he ventured to step into the arena which had been made to echo with party conflict. He quite agreed with the opinion that had been expressed in the course of the debate, that the question before the House was not one of statistics, but a constitutional question. The statistics which had been laid before the House were not necessary for the formation of an opinion; but, at the same time, he thought they confirmed the
 180 181 182 terra firma
 MR. ALLEN  said, the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer met with the general approval of hon. Members on the Ministerial side of the House; and doubtless, with the approval of the great mass of the people of the country. Speeches both for and against the measure, characterized by great ability, had been delivered in that House. The speeches of the two right hon. Gentlemen, the Members for Stroud and Calne (Mr. Horsman and Mr. Lowe), were remarkable equally for their ability and their length. When listening to the able speech in which the hon. Member for Calne had opposed the Bill, he (Mr. Allen) could not help thinking that it would have been much more fitting if the right hon. Gentleman had been sitting on the other side of the House. It was not extraordinary that the right hon. Gentleman should have alluded to the question of the redistribution of seats, because to him that must be a very painful subject. That, however, was not the subject before the House. They had now to deal with the extension of the franchise, and the simple question was should they trust the people or not? The right hon. Member for Calne thought the people were not to be trusted. Representing so large and influential a borough, no doubt the right hon. Gentleman looked forward to the time when that borough would be swept away, and he would have to seek some other constituency. Very few Members on the Liberal side of the House shared that right hon. Gentleman's opinions. Representing a borough (Newcastle under-Lyme), in which working men formed nearly 60 per cent of the entire electoral body, he (Mr. Allen) had been delighted, during his canvass of that borough, to find how much intelligence, political knowledge, and general I good conduct was displayed by those working men. The way in which they had; behaved during that election would put to shame many boroughs in which working men, instead of being nearly 60 per cent, formed only a very small fraction of the constituency. With regard to the statement that the working classes showed great apathy and carelessness on the subject of Reform, that very few petitions had been presented—in fact, that the working classes cared very little about the franchise, the absence of petitions for and of excitement
 183
 MR. SCHREIBER  said: Mr. Deputy Speaker—Sir, when Her Majesty's Government have so lately placed in the hands of hon. Members a bulky volume of "Electoral Statistics," I hope that I shall not be thought to exhibit an inordinate appetite for that description of literature by appearing thus early as an applicant "for more." But at the risk of seeming to be unreasonable, and in spite of what the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer said last night about the fullness of our knowledge, I shall express the very strong opinion which I hold that this House is invited to approach the question of Reform on most inadequate and imperfect information. For some months past Her Majesty's Government, with commendable industry, have been boring vertically downwards through the successive strata of the rate book in quest, I presume, Sir, of that political wisdom which is from below. I would now ask them to turn their thoughts and researches upwards with the view of ascertaining, with some approach to scientific accuracy, the composition of the existing constituencies. And, Sir, as an English borough Member, I would be understood as referring solely in these remarks to the cities and boroughs of England and Wales. I would put it, then, to hon. Members on both sides of the House, and more especially to the eminent philosophers who sit below the gangway opposite, whether we do not live in a state of the most un philosophical ignorance as to the precise distribution of political power in our several constituencies. Between what limits of rental does the real power reside? Who are our present political masters? A memorable passage in the political history of 1852 might indeed suggest the belief that they live in houses of less than £20 a year. Still, these are questions which we cannot answer; but which, on merely abstract grounds, it
 184 "Not only is it (the constituency) increased—it is diluted; and the additions being all of persons rated below £10, these have a sort of chymical affinity with persons of the same class a little above themselves, and the two united become masters of the situation. In these cases, therefore, the present constituency, including all the property and all the intelligence of the place, would be disfranchised without a prospect of escape; and this, I venture to think, would be a very great evil."—[3  Hansard, 185
 MR. LONG  said, he thought that the House ought not only to have full information upon this question, but was bound to exercise great caution in dealing with the extension of the franchise. The measure appeared to him to be only the part of a complete scheme which the Government had neither the wisdom nor the courage to
 186 bonhommie 187
 MR. MELLER  said, he entertained to the Bill several objections. It was not well, he thought, that institutions which had stood the test of time should be lightly abandoned; nor was there any good reason, so far as he could see, why the proposed change should be made. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers) had that very evening descanted on the benefits which the late Parliament had conferred upon the country, and why the present Parliament should not be held to be capable of doing similar service he was at a loss to understand. He had heard of no grievance with which the House of Commons, as now constituted, could be held to be incompetent to deal. Did hon. Gentlemen opposite suppose, for instance, that such an extension of the franchise as was proposed by the Bills of the hon. Members for Leeds and Surrey would have bettered the condition of Ireland, and that if it had been an established fact Fenianism would not have existed in that country? Such views as he advocated on the subject of Reform might be characterized as Tory obstructiveness, but he called them Conservative consistency. The next reason he objected to the Bill was because it was an essential principle of the Constitution that all classes should be represented in that House. Now, he was inclined to believe that fully 26 per cent of the working classes were at present represented in Parliament; and, although he was not prepared to contend that there were not some anomalies in the existing electoral system, be felt assured the House of Commons fairly reflected the national interests. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the £14 occupation franchise which the Bill would give to counties would constitute in reality a middle class enfranchisement, but he (Mr. Meller) scarcely thought these £14 voters would have much sympathy with the land, while the leasehold and copyhold tenures would be biased rather by borough than county influences. As to the franchise being conferred on those who happened to have £50 in a savings bank, he could only say that, while he was an advocate of prudence and providence, he could not understand why it was that the claims of those who had money in the public funds should be ignored. The next proposal in the Bill was that which would enable a man in lodgings paying a rent of 4s. a week to
 188 Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he must express his regret that some Gentlemen professing to be Liberals, and some even who, in former times, expressed strong Liberal opinions, should have risen to stab the Government measure from the rear. In common with several leading Members of the Government, he himself had been a follower of the late Sir Robert Peel; but his convictions, like those of others, had moved on, and he was now a sincere and cordial supporter of the Liberal Government. During an absence from Parliament of eighteen years, he had opportunities of studying the feelings and learning something of the wishes of the working and unrepresented classes; and having been invited by the moderate Liberals to stand for Birmingham
 189 190
 MR. WHITESIDE : Sir, though the measure of the Government will receive a more close and searching examination on the second reading, if ever it arrives at that stage, still I will venture to submit to the House one or two observations on the question as it now stands. I will, in the first place, venture to express a hope that the differences which are likely to arise between the hon. Member who last spoke and his constituents may be happily adjusted; hut, so far as I understood the lion. Member, he seemed to be about to give a vote which is not likely to be satisfactory to his constituents—a fact which, at all events, shows that he understands the principle of Parliamentary representation. I only trust that further consideration may induce him to re-consider the opinions he has somewhat rashly uttered in regard to this measure, and to adopt an
 191 192 193 194 195 onus prdbandi 196 197 198 s. s. s seriatim 199 200
 MR. FAWCETT : I deeply regret that I should for one moment stand in the way of one of the most able Members of the Cabinet (Mr. Goschen, who had risen at the same time and had given way). I thank him for his courtesy; and I will endeavour to be as brief as possible in my remarks. I would scarcely have adventured, as a very young Member of the House, to have intruded myself into so important a debate, had it not occurred that some few weeks since a personal appeal was made to me by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud (Mr. Horsman) who seemed to think that I was deficient in courage, because I—he was pleased to call me a Radical and a representative of the working classes—had not expressed my opinion on Reform. If that appeal had come to me from a different quarter I would have immediately ventured to respond to it; but I doubted an appeal urged by a right hon. Gentleman who sits on the Liberal Benches, and is always enthusiastically cheered by the Conservatives who sit on the opposite side of the House. I think, however, the occasion has now come when any independent Member has a right to express himself on the question of Reform, and I most gladly give expression to my feelings on this occasion. If I do, in the least degree, represent the working-classes, I am glad, as their representative, to be able to say that I accept this measure most thankfully, and I will do everything in my power to give it a most cordial support. It seemed to me that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Stroud, delivered last evening, replete with brilliant epigram and telling antitheses, was a carefully-prepared essay on this theme—"Has Earl Russell been consistent? And is the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright) a Republican?" Suppose he had proved both these positions—suppose he had proved the
 201 202 203 204 205 en masse. 206 en masse 207 208 209
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, although in the course of this debate I have been the subject of much remark, and of not a little that may be fairly termed unusual attack—I beg to assure the House that I have not risen for the purpose of defending myself, since I am ready to leave my course in this House and my political character to the impartial view of Members of the House, and to the just judgment of my countrymen outside the House. Nor have I risen for the purpose of entering into an elaborate defence of the Bill introduced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I think, however, that there has been so much said which is not to the point, that it may he advantageous if I endeavour to explain to the House what I understand the Bill to be—to state some of the grounds on which it appeals to us for support, and to ask the House whether, under the circumstances of this question, and in the existing condition of the country, it is the duty of Parliament to permit it to pass into a law. One thing in the Bill is highly satisfactory to me—that both in what it does and the manner in which it proposes to do it; it is distinct, clear, without any tricks—without semblance of giving something in one clause, and then under a feeling of alarm withdrawing that something in the clause that follows. I have always beer in favour of meeting this question and dealing with it in such a manner that every person in the country who is now an elector, or who is to be included in the Bill, should comprehend that it was a measure, so far as it went, fair and generous to the people of the country whom it was intended to enfranchise. I think I can show reasons—if we can for a moment get rid of the notion of a party combination—why this House should readily, and without hesitation, agree to this Bill. One portion of it will recommend itself, I am quite certain, to all hon. Gentlemen who are enthusiastic admirers of the Bill of 1832—and on this point I can confidently ask for the support of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe)—that is the portion of the Bill which is intended to remove all legal obsta-
 210 211 212 213 Laughter 214 215 216 217 The Norfolk News, 218 "It will be the duty of the Government to prepare a measure of Reform, and I have every confidence that it will be one which if not fully satisfying men of extreme opinions will be acceptable to the great body of the people." 219 "For who, to dumb forgetfulness a prey, That pleasing, anxious office e're resigned, Left the warm precincts of the Treasury, Nor cast one longing, lingering look behind?" 220 221 A laugh, 222 223 224
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : The hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Bright) appears to treat with contempt our discussions upon the question of lowering the franchise. He says that any one looking on would feel a profound contempt when he found that we were debating and raising our passions on a subject so trivial as that of the alteration of the franchise from £10 to £7. Now, I think it must have struck hon. Members as rather remarkable that the hon. Gentleman who treats with such contempt a discussion upon the lowering of the franchise from £ 10 to £7, should have executed not one but three tours through the provinces for the purpose of obtaining a reduction of the franchise
 225 226 "I agree, therefore, that it would be an incumbrance to a Suffrage Bill at this moment to interfere with the distribution of scats; it would make it more difficult to carry a Bill, and whatever distribution of scats you could now make must necessarily be trifling and unsatisfactory, and would leave that question still unsettled, even for the shortest possible period. You will carry such a Bill much more easily. Public opinion hereafter will be more ripe to deal with the question of the distribution when there are a larger number of electors returning your Members to Parliament. I mean a larger number in the different boroughs. You will have what a mechanic will call a larger lever and a better Parliament, which would deal more satisfactorily with all questions which may come before you." 227
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The noble Lord has misapprehended what I stated. What I stated was that we intended to extend to copyholds and leaseholds within boroughs the same privilege as was provided in the Reform Act in reference to freeholds—that there should be votes in such cases for the counties.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : I still understand that £50 leaseholds in boroughs will give to the holder a vote for the county.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Not if they give votes for the borough.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : But still there would be a large number of instances in which, in such cases, votes were not given for boroughs, and to this extent it would intrude urban representation into the counties. What I wish to point out is that the county rural representation is largely overburdened with the urban element already, and instead of remedying that defect the Chancellor of the Exchequer only seeks to aggravate it. What I want hon. Members to observe is this—that if you are to have a Bill for the redistribution of seats, you had much better have it along with the Bill for the extension of the suffrage, in order
 228 employés 229 230 231 à priori, 232 "Mr. Odger, shoemaker, in moving the first resolution, said that the House of Commons and former Governments had not kept faith with the people on the question of Parliamentary Reform." The Times. The Times, The Morning "The House of Commons and former Governments had not kept faith with the people on the question of Parliamentary Reform." "A Reform Bill was promised, but nothing short of manhood suffrage would satisfy the working men of this country. It was necessary, moreover, that there should be no long waiting in this matter." 233 "Give them votes, and they would see that the poor man's daughter, who was worked twelve, fourteen, and sixteen hours a day, should have time to go abroad and view the face of nature." "They would prevent the poor agricultural labourer from working for 8s. a week. All men who were willing to work should have work provided for them." ateliers nationaux, 234 235 236
 MR.JOHN HARDY (Dartmouth)  said, it was easy to make quotations from previous speeches of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), but the passages quoted only showed that the right hon. Gentleman had now grown older and wiser. The Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared also to have changed his views; for whatever might be his present opinion, he never remembered to have read a more constitutional speech than that which he uttered in favour of the small boroughs some years ago. He (Mr. J. Hardy) was not ashamed to say that he represented one of these small boroughs. On the contrary, from that very circumstance, he occupied a more independent position than those who entered the House returned by a large constituency and pledged to support a Reform Bill. When he came into the House that evening he heard the Ministerial Benches cheering the hon. Member for Birmingham, and he did not wonder at it. They appeared to him to have been in the position of a man who had sat all day with his feet in the water trying to get a "rise;" and he did not feel surprised that they should be glad at having at last found some one to give the Bill a good word, He thought the Chancellor of the Exchequer had begun at the wrong end. Had he introduced a Bill for the re-distribution of seats, with one or two fancy franchises, as they were called, he should have supported the measure. But the proposal to lower the franchise to the people instead of raising the people to the franchise seemed to him extremely objectionable. The right hon. Gentleman said that a reduction to £6 would swamp the constituencies, and yet he felt himself justified in going to within a pound of the limit which he declared to be so dangerous. Had these statistics been in the hands of the Government at an earlier date, perhaps a different figure would have been mentioned. It really seemed as if some sporting Member of the Cabinet had called out "Seven is the main," had thrown the dice, and thereupon the matter had been settled.
 237 238
 MR. HIBBERT  (who was almost inaudible owing to continued cries for an Adjournment or Division) was understood to say that he wished to say a few words as to the extent to which the town he represented (Oldham) would be affected by the I Bill. It would be open for some other Member to move the adjournment after he had done. He was not prepared to accept as accurate the Return of the number of working men with votes in the town he represented. The first Return to the Poor Law Board stated the number at 480, but in the number were included not only shopkeepers but beerhouse-keepers and small farmers. The population of Oldham was 107,000, and only 2,085 were at present on the register. Of that number 315 had been returned as working men, while the number ought not to have been more than 150. Instead of one in eight the proportion ought to be one in sixteen.
 239
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  certainly did not wish to check the course of the debate if it was the desire of the House to continue it. But he confessed he was a little sceptical on that point, seeing that twice during the evening the debate was only very narrowly saved from extinction. ["No, no!"] He should, therefore, like to know whether there was really any general desire on the part of the House to continue the discussion; if so, he should not oppose the adjournment.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he had no wish to trespass on the attention of the House if the desire was that the debate should not be adjourned. He wished, however, to confirm what had been stated by his noble Friend the Member for Stamford (Viscount Cranbourne) relative to the great inequality in the representation of towns and counties. According to the Census of 1861, it appeared that the county Members represented nearly three times the population of the boroughs. The inhabitants of the boroughs also, in addition to returning their own Members, exercised a very great influence in the returns for the counties. By this Bill it was proposed to give the additional privilege of double voting,
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there would be no double vote in county and borough in respect of the same qualification.
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  thought that was a mere quibble. A person having a property of £12 value virtually had two votes—one for a £10 house and the other for the county in respect of a small garden attached.
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  wished to put a Question to the right hon. Gentleman with respect to the Electoral Returns. He wished to know why there had been no Return of the number of 40 s s s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rather believed that the blue book did contain the number of 40s. freeholders. ["No!"] He was not quite certain, but such was his impression. If not, he would endeavour to ascertain whether there were the means of producing such a Return. He thought the Return was already contained in some Parliamentary paper.
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  wished to know if there were the means of ascertaining the number of 40 s
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there were no such means. He did not think it would be possible to obtain such a Return. There was the machinery by which the numbers could be ascertained, with very considerable delay, as respected the boroughs, but not as regarded the counties. Nor was there any reason for seeking it, because there was no question of giving the working classes the franchise for the counties. Having stated that it appeared to him there was no desire the debate should be adjourned, he would not trouble the House with any reply. He would only say that the Government were quite content with the course of the dicussion, and perfectly satisfied that their measure would receive full, fair, and earnest consideration at the hands of the House of Commons.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that forced labour had been discontinued for some time past in Egypt, and that the Convention recently entered into between the Porte and the French Authorities on the subject of the Suez Canal had reference only to the territorial rights of the Sultan.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether, in the Agreement or Convention recently entered into between the Porte and the French Authorities on the subject of the Suez Canal, there is any security taken against the employment in future of forced labour on those works, and whether such forced labour is, in fact, altogether discontinued?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he is able to inform the House at what time he proposes to bring forward the Budget?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, in reference to Turnpike Trusts, Whether he intends to give any and what effect to the Report of the Committee of 1864 as to the abolition of Tolls, therein stated to be—
 "Unequal in pressure, costly in collection, inconvenient to the public, and injurious as causing a serious impediment to intercourse and trafic;"
 MR. CHILDERS , in reply, said, the officers to whom the hon. Gentleman alluded were the tide-waiters. Their salaries had been considered some time ago, and there was no intention now to alter them. The salaries had been increased at the out-ports, and there was no intention on the part of the Treasury to make any general alteration in those rates at the present time.
 MR. BLAKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it is the intention of Government to increase the salaries and alter the classification of the outdoor Officers of Customs, as has been recently done in the instance of the clerks of the indoor department?
 MR. DENT  said, he wished to know who were the veterinary surgeons?
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to know, whether the Bills in question were to be treated as Public or Private Bills, believing this to be a point of importance on which the House ought to be informed?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been
 136
 MR. LONG  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Homo Department, Whether the Government were taking any steps to ascertain if the disease resembling the Rinderpest which has recently been observed among sheep in different parts of the United Kingdom be really the Rinderpest, or not.
 MR. LONG  said, he would beg to ask, what steps the Government have taken to check the spread of the disease?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied that he was unable at that moment to state what the contents of the Report were. There would, however, be no objection to lay it on the table of the House.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The Government intend to lay a Bill on the table of the other House on an early day after Easter.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Why the vacancy in the Senate of the Queen's University, Ireland, has not been filled up, and why the summonses issued to fix a day for the Convocation of the University to hold an Election for such vacancy were rescinded; whether the Government propose to ask the Senate or the Convocation to surrender the existing Charter of the University; and whether be was of opinion that it is  intra vires
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he has any objection to state to the House the contents of the Report which, he had received from the officer who had been sent down to make an examination of the Tame Valley Viaduct?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to introduce any Bill in the present Session with reference to the Public Schools?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND  (Mr. LAWSON), remarked that the subscription by grand juries in Ireland to county infirmaries was at present optional; but it was proposed by the fourth clause of this Bill to make it incumbent on them in future to present the average annual sum which they had presented for the last ten years. This was a proposal of a most objectionable character, for circumstances might so alter as to render the continuance of the payment inexpedient, and, in fact, in the opinion of the Poor Law Commissioners, the workhouse hospitals had superseded the necessity for these infirmaries. If this clause were to be retained, he should oppose the second reading.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  differed  in toto
 MR. DAWSON  rose to explain the reason he should not vote for the second reading of the Bill, having voted for it on a previous occasion. It was true that there was a railway traffic in the North, but it was not a commercial or pleasure traffic. He did not intend to vote at all, not because he had altered his opinion, but because he felt it was his duty in some measure to reflect the views of his constituents, a very large proportion of whom were Presbyterians, who were the most orderly portion of the population, and were deeply opposed to Sunday traffic.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  objected to the compulsory character of the Bill, thinking that the arrangements between the companies and the public they served should be left to themselves, But he rose to call the attention of the House to the curious change that had come over the aspect of the question during the discussion. At first it was described as a question of general interest, applicable to the whole of Ireland; but now it had dwindled into a local dispute with the Limerick and Waterford Railway. The hon. Baronet the Member for the King's County (Sir Patrick O'Brien), with more zeal than discretion, had branded the opposition to this Bill with the epithet of "Pharisaical;" but he (Lord Claud Hamilton) did not know whether it was applicable to a person in his position. In the district in which he lived trains did not run on Sunday; but. had they been required to do so, he had no doubt that arrangements would soon have been made to meet the wishes of the inhabitants but he did not see how it was "Pharisaical" not to compel companies to run trains on Sundays, when they were not asked for. He quite agreed with the hon. and learned Baronet that in railway matters attention should be paid to the feelings of the inhabitants of the locality through which it was proposed to construct the line, and in the present case all the requests that had been made to him were that he would oppose the Bill. The compulsory powers sought in the Bill were contrary to the sound principles which guided Parliamentary action. Some of the railways in Ireland were established by means of public money, and to enforce such provisions as some of those contained in the Bill would amount to a breach of contract. The companies accepted loans on certain specific terms, and Parliament had no right now to impose regulations which would diminish the profits of the railways. No man could expect the same rate of interest for the money he had lent if he, by any subsequent conditions, diminished the productiveness of that money while in the hands of the borrower. He held that trains could not be run on Sunday without a loss to the
 254
 MR. HENLEY  said, that he was struck with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, that he only gave his private opinion on a matter of such vast importance. Now, considering the importance of the office held by the right hon. Gentleman, and that he had formed no official opinion on a matter which was one of the most important charges of his Department, he (Mr. Henley) should like to know why they should hurry into legislation at all. What the right hon. Gentleman had sketched out went to change the entire nature of the Bill. As the right hon. Gentleman consented to do away with the universal character of the measure, what occasion existed for any hurry in passing it? And why should not the Government take up this subject and bring in a general measure, if one were necessary, declaratory of the meaning of the Act of 1854? There seemed to be no ground for legislation on the part of the lion, and learned Baronet, but if the principle of the present measure were good, it ought equally to apply to England and Scotland. The right hon. Gentleman said that the Board of Trade; could not look at the religious part of the question, but must only regard the commercial That course of proceeding savoured somewhat of Mammon—and something else. After what bad fallen from the right hon. Gentleman he would give his vote against the second reading of the Bill, because if it was to have no retrospective action it could not remedy the difficulty mentioned with regard to the traffic between; Waterford and Limerick.
 MR. BARING  hoped the hon. Member would explain how he proposed to deal with the Amendments.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he was not certain what would be the effect of the Amendments which had been made to the Bill by the Lords; but he was under the impression that cattle could be removed with the consent of the local Boards otherwise than by railway.
 MR. BARING  said, he was exceedingly disappointed with the answer which the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) had given to his request that be should inform the House what course he intended to take with the Amendments made in this Bill. The difficulty in which they were now placed arose thus. The hon. Gentleman, from the first taking what he properly called at the time an anomalous course, produced a Bill when the Government introduced their measure. That Bill, by consent of the Government, was read a second time, and committed without discussion; and when the Government, in a division upon an Amendment moved by the hon. Gentleman, were, as he described, without any party motive, placed in a large minority, the hon. Gentleman proposed that all those portions of the Government measure which related to the movement of cattle should be abandoned, and that the Government should allow his Bill, so far as related to that subject, to be proceeded with. To this course the Government assented in deference to the opinion of the House, as expressed in the division. The whole principle and main object of the Bill of the hon. Gentleman was to provide by legislative enactment the precise rules and regulations under which cattle should or should not be moved throughout Great Britain up to and after the 25th of March. The particular point to which the hon. Gentleman directed the attention of the House and desired the decision of Parliament was, under what regulations cattle should be moved after the 25th of March. That Bill had up to the present time undergone, probably, greater vicissitudes than any other measure ever introduced into that
 269 270
 MR. BARING  said, it was the first time he had heard that explanation.
 MR. BARING  would now describe to the House the condition of the Bill as it came down from the House of Lords. As sent sip iii the other House it consisted of fifty-four clauses and one schedule; twenty-four clauses and the schedule were struck out, and eleven new clauses were introduced in the other House. All the clauses relating to the movement of cattle were left out. It had been his duty to examine the Bill carefully to see whether it would be possible by introducing Amendments to make it a useful measure, He did not dispute that there were some useful clauses in it, and he had gone the length of putting his Amendments in print. The hon. Gentleman was aware that it was not competent for them in dealing with a Bill they had received from the other House amended to make any alteration except by disagreeing with or amending the Lords' Amendments, or making consequential Amendments on those Amendments. Well, the result of his most careful consideration of the Bill as brought down to them was, that even supposing—what was exceedingly improbable—that every Amendment the Government proposed was accepted by the House without alteration—supposing what was still more unlikely, that the other House would be prepared to accept all those Amendments if the Bill passed in the shape in which he proposed to amend it, they would have a piece of legislation so complicated and so difficult to understand that it would not be right to recommend its adoption by the House. Legislation relative to the cattle plague must be understood by all classes of the
 271 272
 MR. BARING  replied that the Orders in Council would provide for such cases.
 MR. BARING said, the proposal which he would indicate as the one likely to be carried out by Government was, that while the principle of isolation would be carried out as to infected districts, and every precaution would be taken to protect uninfected districts, such as Wales and Scotland, with regard to the rest of England some form of licence might be devised which would enable beasts to he moved from one part of the country to another. He might add that he hoped it would be possible to make the regulations he had described under the existing law by means of Orders of Council; but if, upon further consideration, Government found that such was not the case, it would be their duty to apply to the House for fuller powers. With regard to the very important subject of the cleansing of railway trucks, as the matter had up to the present time been under the consideration of Parliament, Government, out of respect to the House, had refrained from taking any action for the purpose of compelling the railway companies to per-
 273
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  inquired whether the Orders of the Privy Council could be carried out without reference to the local authorities?
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  observed, that the action of the Privy Council had produced no effect whatever in stopping the cattle plague, whereas the system of legislation which had been adopted had had a most beneficial effect, as was evinced in the recent Returns. There had been a great diminution in the number of cattle attacked by the plague during the last week, and this he attributed in a very great degree to the effect of their legislation. The Government appeared not to think this question of great importance; but it was vital to the interests of the country, and was much more urgent than their Reform Bill, which nobody wanted and every one would be glad to get rid of. He called on the Government to deal with this question in a fair and statesmanlike way, and not leave the country in such an emergency to the action of the local authority.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he did not think it right that the Bill should be withdrawn without an expression on the part of those interested in that important question of their sense of the valuable labours of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire. He wished, for one, distinctly to state that he attributed to the perseverance and energy of his hon. Friend the welcome result which they had heard announced in the name of the Government that afternoon. All that he contended for was the establishment of a uniform system under the direction of the Government; and it was a matter of indifference to him whether that uniformity was attained by an Act of Parliament or by Orders in Council. He was glad to learn the course which the Government had resolved to adopt; and he trusted that, strengthened as they must feel by the opinion of the House, they would not shrink from enforcing a uniformity of practice under the Orders in Council.
 MAJOR GAVIN  said, that in discussing the religious and other objections to Sunday traffic, the interests of the 52,000 inhabitants of Limerick (which city he represented) were lost sight of. They were shut up for twenty-four hours as if they were a besieged city, as nothing could come in and nothing was let out; and all this to conciliate the feelings of a few religious people and some Railway Directors. The Bill was lost last year by a majority of three, in consequence of the thinness of the House occasioned by a levee; but he met with some of those who opposed it as invading the sanctity of the Sabbath enjoying themselves on the following Sunday at Hampton Court or Kew Gardens, and some he knew went down to Brighton to revel in the sea breezes and the other things that could be enjoyed there. The Mayor of Limerick, who was a Presbyterian and one of the largest employers of labour in Ireland, was in favour of the Bill. He trusted the House would pass this Bill, and allow his pent *
 MR. AYRTON  thought the House was placed in a position of considerable diffi-
 267
 MR. LEFROY  said, he opposed the Bill
 259
 MR. CUMMING-BRUCE  wished to know, as all changes of occupation took place on the 15th of May in Scotland, whether there was any power to enable the movement of stock under those circumstances?
 Mr. NEWDEGATE  desired to impress upon Government the necessity for adopting some permanent measure for the prevention of the spread of the cattle disease. He asked whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce such a measure in the course of the present Session?
 MR. READ  said, that the course which the Government had just announced their intention of taking was precisely that which had been recommended in the Report of the Cattle Plague Commissioners last autumn; and he believed that if they had followed the recommendations contained in that Report last November, there would at present be no cattle plague. The present state of the law was manifestly most unsatisfactory. They had stopped all the traffic on railways, but cattle were still allowed to pass along the roads, and the cattle trucks on the railways were not disinfected. He hoped that the Government,
 276
 MR. PUGH  said, it appeared to him that the non-infected districts were in a much worse condition as they now stood under the Bill, with all the Amendments it had received, than they were under the Bill as it left the House. Then there was a clause expressly exempting them from restrictions, and he had reason to believe that that clause was in perfect accord with the feelings of the inhabitants of the districts so situated. But it bad been
 268
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the hon. and learned Member who introduced the Bill seemed to think that there had been some combination among the Scotch Members to prevent the passing of the Bill. Now, he (Mr. M'Laren) was prepared to say that, as far as he knew, this had not been the case; and, certainly, not a single word had been exchanged between any Scotch Member with reference to this Bill. The hon. and learned Member appeared to think that the Scotch Members had no right to interfere in an Irish question. Now, it was the part of the Imperial Parliament to legislate for the whole United Kingdom, and it was the duty of every Member of it, no matter from what country he came, to give effect to the honest opinions which he entertained. No doubt the public affairs of Ireland were not to be regulated according to the public opinion of Scotland, any more than the public affairs of Scotland were to be regulated according to the public opinion of Ireland; but the law as it stood on this railway question was in the state in which it ought to be, and was quite perfect. Railway directors in all the three kingdoms had the right to run trains on the Sunday whenever they thought fit. Directors would naturally be guided in such a matter by
 250
 MR. SYNAN  said, no doubt the absolute necessity for the county infirmaries had been superseded by the Poor Act; but, at the same time, they were highly useful institutions to a certain extent and for a certain class. But the grand juries were in his opinion the best judges as to whether they ought to make presentments for particular infirmaries, and he did not think the House should interfere with their power in that respect. He suggested either the withdrawal of the Bill or the postponement of the second reading, in order to ascertain the views of the Irish Government upon the subject.
 MR. HUNT  said that, as the House knew, the Bill had come down from the other House very much altered from the shape in which it was introduced by him, or in which it had left that House. It was originally intended to be passed with the utmost dispatch, and to be a short Bill with stringent provisions with respect to the movement of cattle. The Bill was delayed in the House of Commons by the Fabian policy of the Government, and it was afterwards further delayed by the same policy in another place—only conducted in a more discreet manner. Consequently, so much time had elapsed that the provisions of the Bill respecting the movement of cattle had become inapplicable and inappropriate, and, therefore, he was not surprised that the Bill had been sent down with those clauses omitted. The prohibition was originally to extend to the 25th of March; and as it was now the 14th, to pass the Bill with such a prohibition for a few days only would have been perfectly ridiculous. The second reading of the Bill was moved in another place by a Cabinet Minister, who said that he would take charge of the Bill with a view of making very great alterations, and certainly he had fulfilled his intentions. Nevertheless, the Bill had come out of the Lords' Select Committee with some useful provisions in substitution of the clauses relating to the movement of cattle. He had no feeling against the Bill because it had undergone the alterations he had mentioned; but, on the contrary, he thought that, as it now stood, it was a useful and valuable measure, and he conceived that the House would do well to pass it in its amended shape, with some few slight alterations. He regarded the clauses enabling the Privy Council and local authorities to proclaim certain places as infected, and prohibiting, after such proclamation, all movement out of those
 264
 MR. HUNT  said, he was rejoiced to hear from the Under Secretary for the Home Department that the Government intended to relieve both himself and the House from very great difficulty by accepting all responsibility in this matter, but he could not agree with the concluding observation of the hon. Gentleman, that his efforts had been unattended with success, because within the last few minutes they had heard the Government announce that they would do what every one had desired they should do—take upon themselves the responsibility they had hitherto declined. The hon. Gentleman had referred to those clauses in the
 274
 MR. HUNT  was desirous of knowing how Government intended to deal with that subject. Did they intend to delegate their authority on this point to the local authorities?
 MR. HUNT  inquired how Government intended to deal with the movement of cattle in the event of a change of tenancy-taking place?
 MR. HUNT  said, he had stated so in the House.
 MR. HUNT  explained that he had withdrawn all the clauses relating to that point in order that the Government, might deal with the question.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he wished to know whether the Orders in Council were to be carried into effect independently of all interference on the part of the local authorities?
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he was surprised on referring to the Notices this morning to find that the clause drawn up and promised by the Government and agreed to by the tanning trade had not been inserted as a substitute for the three clauses struck out of the Bill of the hon. Member for Northampton by the House of Lords. He expressed his deep regret that no such clause had been introduced, because it would have given immediate relief to a branch of industry in which a very considerable proportion of his constituents were engaged—he meant the tanning trade. At this moment the trade was completely paralyzed by recent legislation, it being impossible to remove hides and skins, even if protected by a covering, from Leeds or Hull into Beverley, although the law as it stood permitted their transit through the entire length and breadth of the country. He deprecated much discussion on the Bill, as the time was so pressing, and, if hon. Members wished the measure to pass the less they debated the clauses the better. The adoption of any other course would infallibly defeat the Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  understood the right hon. Gentleman to say that the present measure, which was a partial and local Bill, was to be an exposition of a general statute, and that its principle was not to apply to Scotland or England, and he therefore asked whether the right hon. Gentleman really meant that a general Act of the realm was to be expounded by an enactment which was not to be applied to England and Scotland?
 MR. WHITESIDE : You would explain a general Act by a local one.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, that if the Irish railways were compelled to run trains on Sunday, the House would have to provide against any loss they might sustain by so doing. Although he never travelled by the railway on a Sunday, he would not restrain other people from doing so. The Bill now before the House would require certain alterations when under the consideration of the Committee, and one of them related to the provision to be made for empowering the Board of Trade to make inquiries as to the loss or profit arising from the running of trains on Sunday. Trains now ran between Dublin and Cork on that day; but towns lying on the right and left of the line connecting those places did not enjoy such an advantage. He therefore contended that the people of Limerick and
 253
 MR. BAGWELL  was of opinion that one or two infirmaries of a superior description in the different counties would serve a very useful end by treating serious disorders and accidents with more care than was possible in a local workhouse. Not that he wished to disparage the medical officers of workhouses, many of whom were men of considerable eminence in their profession; but it was well known that in certain cases it was desirable to call in more advice than could be obtained from any one physician in any one place. He did not ask for the revival of the Government grant to the officers of the infirmaries, which bad gradually been allowed to drop, for he was always an advocate for the Irish people doing for themselves what the people of England did in like cases; but he hoped the Government would promise to deal with the subject, and that when the Chief Secretary for Ireland was in his place, which he trusted, after what occurred on Monday night, would be very shortly, a Bill in accordance with what he had shadowed out would be introduced. He would advise the hon. Member for Westmeath (Mr. Pollard-Urquhart) to withdraw his Bill on such an understanding, or else to ask the Chief Secretary in Committee to assist in modifying it in any way that seemed best.
 MR. BLAKE  said, the hon. and learned Baronet had stated that when that Bill was last brought forward it was not resisted by more than four Irish Members, and that the bulk of the opposition offered to it came from the Scotch Members. On the present occasion, it was probable there would be an increase in the number of Irish Members who would vote for the Amendment which he was himself about to move. A considerable number of petitions—nearly 150 he believed—had been presented from Ireland against the Bill upon various grounds; but even if the whole of the petitioners had been influenced by a desire for the observance of the Sabbath, that fact would not disentitle them to the attention of the House. The hon. Baronet had not been able to procure a single petition from his own county (Clare) in favour of his measure; neither had the activity of the hon. and gallant Member for Ennis nor that of the hon. Member for Limerick been able to elicit one from their districts. The whole expression of opinion which they had from Ireland was, therefore, adverse to the Bill, than which a more unjust and unnecessary piece of  ex post facto 248 s d s employés 249
 MR. DENT  said, he thought the Government were taking upon themselves a great responsibility, and he trusted that they would make the necessary provisions for regulating the movement of cattle which must take place in consequence of those changes of farms which would soon be commencing in the North of England. He was anxious, as one of the agricultural Members in that House, to state how much he felt indebted to the hon. Member for Northamptonshire for the zeal, intelligence, and courtesy with which he had brought that subject under their consideration.
 MR. PIM  said, there were two questions involved in the present discussion—one concerning the travelling facilities to be provided for the public on Sundays, and the other affected the third-class accommodation required. In various parts of the country the railway companies possessed a monopoly of the traffic; and when they did not run the trains the people were worse off than they were before the introduction of the railway. Some inconsistency—he did not like to say "Phariseeism"—had been manifested by the hon. and learned Member for Waterford (Mr. Blake) in his opposition to the Bill; for while he based his argument on the assertion that Sunday trains would not pay, he took great pains to obtain support from people not only in Ireland, but in Scotland, on the ground of Sabbath desecration. The matter in which he had taken the most interest was included in the second part of the Bill—namely,the accommodation provided for third-class passengers. This was a subject which deserved the serious attention of the House. He, however, would not record his vote in favour of the Bill, because he took objection to the partial manner in which the Bill proposed to deal with the subject. Were the Bill to pass it would to a great degree be an  ex post facto
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, the subject under discussion did not resolve itself into a Sabbath question; the point at
 252
 MR. S. B. MILLER  thought that that; House was not the proper arena for theological discussions; but after the pointed allusions that had been made by the hon.
 251 nolens volens,
 MR. ACLAND  said he entirely differed from the lion Member for Northamptonshire, who, he earnestly hoped, would take the advice of the hon. Baronet who had just spoken (Sir John Trollope) and drop (he Bill altogether. What they wanted m addition to the action of the local authority was the supervision of one responsible Minister, who was liable to question at all times as to the operation of the Orders in Council.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  explained that the House could deal with the cases of England and Scotland when they came under consideration.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he had been informed that redress could be obtained from the Superior Courts by some decision compelling railway companies to give reasonable facilities on the Sunday, but he thought it was better that Parliament should itself give a legislative exposition of the true intent and meaning of the previous Act. He considered this a measure which the House might reasonably entertain, and, speaking for himself individually, he was prepared to support the second reading.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that as his hon. and learned Friend (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) did not seem inclined to agree to the suggestions of the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir Hugh Cairns) that this question should be referred to the Commission on Railways now sitting, the House would have to give a vote "Aye" or "No" on the Question of the Second Reading. He (Mr. Milner Gibson) would say a few words to explain the reasons upon which he had arrived at a conclusion on the subject. As regarded a reference to the Commission on Railways he did not think much would be gained by that. That Commission had pretty nearly concluded its inquiry into Irish railways, and the evidence on that branch of the investigation was completed—although they had power, no doubt, to re-open it. He did not think that this particular question had come under their consideration, but even if the Commissioners gave an opinion upon it, the question would necessarily come back to the House; and therefore to refer the Bill to that Commission would be only a postponement for further information. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) had stated with great force the rule—although there might be exceptions—of Parliament against  ex post facto 260 "Every railway company should afford all reasonable facilities, according to their respective powers, for receiving and forwarding passengers on its lines." 261
 MR. BEACH  protested against the doctrine that Parliament should delegate its power to the Privy Council. It was quite right that power should be so exercised during the recess; but when Parliament was sitting they were bound to legislate on all subjects as the wants of the country might demand. There were certain portions of this Bill which were urgently required, but which the Bill of the Government did not deal with, such as the removal of hides and manure, both of which produced very dire cases of infection. This Bill had been deeply considered by a Select Committee in another place; Parliament would not therefore be legislating in a hurry; and if they could not have a complete measure dealing with the; whole subject they should pass this Bill as soon as possible.
 MR. GREGORY  said, it was remarkable that it was precisely in that part of the world where strong religious opinions were supposed to exist that railways were running on Sundays, and it was precisely from that part of the world where religious convictions were not so strong that the petitions against the measure came. Those petitions were apparently of foreign extraction. They came from scattered Presbyterian populations throughout the whole of Ireland, and they were similar in substance to the petition of the Sabbath Alliance in Scotland, There was something significant in the fact. But when the hon. Members for Ireland complained of the interference of Scotch Members in a matter of purely Irish concern, he must say that when some years ago he brought forward a Motion for the benefit of the inhabitants of Edinburgh by throwing open the Botanic Gar dens there, he was inundated with letters and papers complaining that he, an Irish Member, should interfere in a matter of purely Scotch concern. It appeared to
 258
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that as the law stood at present an annual subscription of three guineas was required to constitute a governor, and one of twenty guineas to constitute a life governor of a county infirmary. The obvious effect of this provision was to limit the number of
 242
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  thought the Privy Council was a more fit body than Parliament to determine all the minute regulations required for meeting the calamity of the cattle plague, and as they would always be in possession of the best and latent information, they were the best able to deal with the master At the present moment there were eighteen counties in Scotland, ten counties in Wales, and some five or six counties in England free from the disease; am! if in all those it should be attempted to carry out any uniform regulation great inconvenience and loss to the proprietors and farmers would result, attended with no counter-Tailing advantage in respect to stopping the spread of the disease He therefore thought that this Bill should merely operate to give stringent powers to the Privy Council.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  expressed his readiness to accept the suggestion thrown out by the President of the Board of Trade, and to insert words to render the Bill prospective only.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in moving the second reading of this Bill, explained that its objects were twofold. Its first object was to prevent railway companies from suspending railway communication in the districts in which they had their lines at their own discretion on Sundays; and the second was to provide for third-class accommodation between places lineally connected by railways, belonging to two different companies, and to give the public the same accommodation they would have if the whole length of line belonged to one company. On the former head he might state that he brought in a similar measure last Session; but the hon. Member for Water-ford (Mr. Blake) opposed it then, as he intended doing now, and it was lost by a majority of only three in a House of eighty-five Members. The Irish Members present, however, with only four exceptions, supported the Bill—a rather rare case of general agreement among them—and its defeat was occasioned by no less than eighteen out of the fifty-three Scotch representatives
 244 245 s d s d., s s d s d., s d 246 247 s s
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not surprised that the hon. Member had failed; in his attempt to carry an Act of Parliament which would effect the desired object, as he believed the only safe principle for the Government to adopt in the matter was to issue Orders in Council on the subject. An Act, had lately been passed for Ireland, by which large power was given to the Lord Lieutenent to take the steps he might deem most effectual for dealing with
 275
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it right to repeat that any absolutely uniform system, which would entirely disregard all differences of circumstances, would be wholly unattainable either by an Act of Parliament or by Orders in Council.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, that he did not desire to express any opinion on the merits or demerits of the Waterford and Limerick line, but he thought it right, as the Bill aimed at legislation of a general description, that the House should consider the character of that legislation and endeavour to ascertain whether it was based on sound principles. As he intended to vote against the Bill he would briefly state his objections to it. He regarded it as an interference of a very strong and violent kind with an established mercantile undertaking, or perhaps he should say a great number of established mercantile undertakings. He admitted what had been said by several hon. Members, that railway companies had a monopoly of the carriage of the districts through which their lines ran; but still in dealing with them the principles of justice
 255 256 257
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, he had conferred with his constituents, and found them decidedly unfavourable to the Bill of the hen. Member for Northampton shire, They thought that if they had a responsible Government in the country, on an occasion of great emergency like this, they were the persons to bring forward a Bill of this kind, and they were only confused by having a Bill prepared by a private Member running side by side with the Government measure. Her Majesty's Government did not object to Amendments. The difficulty which the people experienced was in stocking farms and in moving stock. A great sheep fair was held in his neighbourhood the other day; but on account of the difficulty of moving the animals (in one adjoining county they could move them, in another they could not) the magistrates were obliged to attend in order that the animals might be allowed to get out of the fair. The time for holding the great fairs was approaching, and how was the business of the country to be carried on? He saw no reason whatever for going on with
 266 de novo
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, it would be necessary for some regulations to be made with regard to the sales of cattle which were about to take place in different parts of the country.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Whitworth gun to which the hon. Member referred, although it was a rifled gun, was not constructed entirely on Mr. Whitworth's principle, but on a principle almost entirely similar to that of the Armstrong gun. That gun had been proved only experimentally, and, in general, with excessive charges, and no
 283
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, the opinion to which the hon. Member refers, as expressed by me on the 27th of June last, was given under the belief on my part that the Lord Chancellor had the power, if he thought fit, to suspend a Registrar of the Court of Bankruptcy; but on examining the Act of Parliament under which that office is held—the Act of 1861—it appears that she office is to be held during good behaviour—that is, subject to dismissal by the Lord Chancellor by order, for some sufficient reason, to be set forth in such order. So that it does not appear that the Lord Chancellor has the power of suspension at all with respect to the office. I need not point out to the hon. Member and the House that while Mr.
 282
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the Question, although of no great extent, is of very great difficulty, and Her Majesty's Government, occupied as they have been with other matters, have not been enabled to determine in what manner they ought to frame any such proposal they may find it their duty to submit to Parliament.
 SIR JOHN PARINGTON  said, he wished to ask a question in explanation of the answer just given by the right hon. Gentleman as regarded retrospective compensation; whether the House were to understand that it was the intention of the Government to give compensation in such cases?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have nothing to add or to take away from what we declared in the discussion on the original Cattle Diseases Bill. My right hon. Friend the Secretary of State for the Home Department (Sir George Grey) then declared that it was the intention of Government to look to the question with a view, if possible, of framing some proposal on the point.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the
 284
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he would object to substitute for the clause in the "Bill for the Representation of the People" which would deprive the artizans in Her Majesty's Dockyards of the franchise, one enabling those artizans to give their votes by ballot; he would further beg to ask, whether the disfranchisement proposed to be inflicted on the artizans would be extended to officers on full pay stationed in towns where there were dockyards?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, with respect to the latter part of the Question of the hon. Member, I apprehend that the clause in the Bill is perfectly clear as to the class of persons to whom it applies. With regard to the former part of the Question, as Her Majesty's Government are not prepared to admit the principle of secret voting, this is, I think, the last occasion in which it ought to be applied, inasmuch as the object is not so much to protect the artizans from undue influence as to protect the Members who represent them.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, it was quite true that a change had been made in the system of charging the indirect and other expenses in the Royal Gun Factories since the years 1861–2. It would he impossible to say what difference would have been occasioned in the price of the Armstrong Guns as stated in the Royal Gun Factory Balance Sheet of 1861–2, had the change taken place previous to those years, without preparing a now balance-sheet, which would be a work of considerable time and labour; but the effect, no doubt, would have been to make the manufacture of those guns considerably more expensive.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, in reply, that the point of law involved in
 289
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, it will be for the convenience of the House if I now state the course which Her Majesty's Government, after due consideration, feel it their duty to pursue with reference to the Amendment of which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) has given notice. The right hon. Gentleman and hon. Members sitting around him have frankly accepted the principle of a uniform oath; and the division which took place on the second reading of the Bill demonstrated the all but unanimous opinion of the House that a uniform oath should be substituted for the several oaths now taken by Members of both Houses of Parliament. We attach great value to the principle of a uniform oath, because it involves the exclusion of those parts of the oaths now taken which are peculiar to the Roman Catholic oath, needlessly offensive to Roman Catholic Members, and which, according to the construction placed upon them by some persons, subjects them to some restriction of the freedom which, as Members of the Legislature, they ought to exercise, A uniform oath places them upon an equality with other Members of this House; whilst it narrows the area of debate by removing many of those topics which have been the subject of our discussions to a large extent on former occasions. We have been anxious to give a fair and candid consideration to the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman as the leader of a party in the House, and who, we believe, is sincerely desirous of facilitating the object we have in view, that of the establishment of one uniform oath. His Amendment consists of two parts, which have no connection one with the other The first relates to the Act of Settlement, and the second to the Royal Supremacy. With regard to the first part of the Amendment, in preparing a Bill to be submitted to Parliament we did not think it necessary to
 290
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, although I feel it desirable not to defer going into Committee, where alone the Amendment can be properly discussed, perhaps the House will allow me to make one or two
 291 "I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and will defend her to the utmost of my power." vi et armis.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, as he divided the House on the second reading of the Bill, he might perhaps be permitted to state that he believed, and had reason to know, that the large majority did not represent the unanimity which the right hon. Gentleman had assumed. The oath now sought to be disturbed was the result of an arrangement made after a contest in Parliament which, lasted for eleven years, and a conference between the two Houses of Parliament, and it was a settlement second only in importance to that of 1829, so far as principle was concerned. He knew well the current of public opinion in the country in reference to the subject, and of that
 292
 MR. DILLON  said, he was very reluctant to urge any objection to the proposed compromise between the Government and the Opposition. There was not a Member in the House more sensible than himself of the little practical result which the Amendment proposed by the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli) could produce. If it had any practical result it could only be this—to make the Roman Catholics of England and Ireland feel that the disposition had not entirely disappeared of doing things towards them that were needlessly offensive. He was prepared to show that what was proposed to be done on the present occasion was entirely unnecessary, and moreover, that it was offensive to those who, like himself, professed the Roman Catholic creed. What they were called upon to do was not merely to submit, and to be loyal, to the Protestant Monarchy of this country, but to swear to maintain an Act of Parliament which was conceived in a spirit most injurious and offensive to the Roman Catholic religion, by the terms of which a Roman Catholic was bound, if at any time the Sovereign of the country were to become Roman Catholic, to take up arms and dethrone him. Now there was a wide difference between binding them to loyalty to the Sovereign, whatever his
 293
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  observed, that the right hon. Baronet (Sir George Grey) bad stated that by adopting the first part of the Amendment he would add no-
 294 295 à priori 296
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the discussion was ranging inconveniently wide. His right hon. Friend (Sir George Grey) had stated for the information of the House the intentions of the Government with respect to the Amendment suggested by the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli), and it was natural for him to have made some remarks on that part of the Amendment which it was proposed to concede. His right hon. Friend also explained what portion of the Amendment he objected to, but he did not state his reasons, because it would have been inconvenient to provoke a discussion, which could at the present stage lead to no result, on that part of the subject, antecedently to going into Committee. It would be much better to take that discussion in Committee.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, it might be inferred that he had suddenly changed his opinion on this subject, for the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary had just now repeated words to that effect, similar to those he made use of on a previous evening. On that occasion the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) reminded the House of the fads of the case, and he had himself since then referred to the authentic record of what took place last year, and he found that he absolutely requested the Government—a favour which they accorded—to give a morning sitting for the discussion on the second reading of the Bill of the right hon. Member for Limerick (Mr. Monsell), giving notice of his intention to move that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee, with an instruction to frame a uniform oath for all Members. He was obliged to abandon that intention on account of a technical reason, for he was informed by the highest authority that such an instruction could not be referred to the Select Committee. He, therefore, was at a loss to understand how it was that he was charged by the right hon. Baronet with having opposed the enactment of a uniform oath. He was delighted when he heard the Government this year announce their intention to propose a uniform oath, but they had produced one in which he had no confidence. He had therefore suggested one in accordance with the principles he had laid down last year, in which he had confidence.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that on the first clause, containing the following form of oath proposed in the Government Bill:—
 "I, A.B., do swear that I will be faithful and bear true Allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Victoria, and will defend Her to the utmost of my Power against all Conspiracies and Attempts whatever which shall be made against Her Power, Crown, or Dignity. So help me GOD. "And I do faithfully promise to maintain and support the Succession to the Crown, as the same stands limited and settled by an Act passed in the reign of King William III., intituled 'An Act for the further Limitation of the Crown, and better securing the Rights and liberties of the Subject.'" 298
 MR NEWDEGATE  hoped he might be permitted to make a few observations on the Amendment, as this was the first opportunity they had had of discussing it; and he would briefly state the objections he entertained to it. He would first call the attention of the Committee to the omissions from the original form of oath which were contemplated by the Amendment now before the House. The right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire proposed the omission of the following paragraph from the oath as settled for all the Protestant Members of the House, which included the vast majority. The paragraph to be omitted was—
 "And I will defend tier (Majesty) to the utmost of my power against all conspiracies and attempts whatsoever which may be made against Her Person, Crown, and Dignity, and I will do my utmost to disclose and make known to Her Majesty, Her Heirs and Successors, all treasons and traitorous conspiracies that, may be formed against Her and them." "That no Foreign Prince, Prelate, State, or Potentate, hath or ought to have any jurisdiction, authority, or pre-eminence within this realm." 299 300
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  said, he wished to know whether the Government agreed to abandon these words?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the Question now was as to word proposed by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) to be added after the word "Victoria."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he would ask the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) whether he considered it prudent to omit from the present oath the words "And I will defend Her Majesty against all conspiracies whatever?"
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, no Question had been put as to the omission of these words; the Question now was the insertion after "Victoria," in line 12, of the words proposed to be added by the right hon. Member (Mr. Disraeli). The Question whether the words proposed to be omitted should or should not stand part of the clause would arise after the Committee had decided on the insertion of the words proposed to be added.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, with reference to some observations of the hon. Member (Mr. Newdegate), that it was unnecessary for the oath to refer to the words "being Protestants" or to the succession to the Crown. The omission was of no importance whatever, as the Act of Settlement contained the words and the limitation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I propose to omit after the word "subject" the words—
 "And will defend Her to the utmost of my power against all conspiracies and attempts whatever which shall be made against Her Power, Crown, or dignity."
 MR. DISRAELI : I now propose to add after the word "subject" the following words:—
 "And I do further solemnly declare that Her Majesty is, under God, the only Supreme Governor of this Realm, and that no Foreign Prince, Prelate, State, or Potentate hath any jurisdiction or authority in any of the Courts within the same."
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Sir, I think I can lay before the House several reasons for the non-acceptance of this Amendment, I fully recognize in the course which the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Disraeli) has taken a sincere desire to avoid difficulties and to agree upon such a form of oath as shall give general satisfaction to all parties. The objections I have to make to this part of the right hon. Gentleman's proposal are of a twofold character. In the first place, the words that he proposes to introduce are incongruous with and unnecessary to the object of the oath as we now propose to frame it; and secondly, the Amendment is not only unnecessary but is positively mischievous. With regard to my first, objection, that the words proposed to be introduced are incongruous and useless, I say that the oath as we now propose to frame it is intended to embrace two things—namely, the great principle of personal loyalty to the Sovereign, and that of loyalty to the Monarchy as established by the fundamental laws of the Constitution. We have agreed as to that, but we are now asked to go further, and to introduce into the oath an abstract I proposition, which has nothing whatever to do with these great principles—which is neither a pledge of personal loyalty to the Crown nor of loyalty to the Monarchy. What can be the use or advantage of introducing abstract declarations of this kind into the oath? I can only suggest one possible use of them—namely, to act as a test. There may be occasions on which it might be desirable or even necessary to introduce into an oath of this kind words which should operate as a test, but the object of such a test and the criterion of its necessity is the exclusion of persons whose opinions would render their admission dangerous. This object was the foundation of all declarations respecting the I Royal Supremacy which were introduced into the oath formerly taken by Members of Parliament. It was thought, that there were dangerous opinions, perilous to the Constitution, held by certain persons upon that subject, which rendered those who held them unfit to sit in Parliament. Accordingly, it was deemed necessary to insert such words in the oath as would be a bar to the entrance of such persons beyond the threshold of this House. That was a very
 302 "And that no foreign Prince, Prelate, State, or Potentate hath any jurisdiction or authority in any of the Courts within the same." 303 "The Crown of England hath been so free at all times, that it hath been in no earthly subjection, but immediately subject to God in all things touching" [not all the Courts within the realm] but "the regality of the same Crown, and to none other." "The realm of England, recognizing no superior under God, but only the King, hath been and is free from subjection to any man's laws, but only to such as have been devised, made, and obtained within this realm, for the wealth of the same, or to such others as by sufferance of the King, the people of this realm have taken at their free liberty by their own consent to be used among them." "No foreign Prince, Peer, Prelate, State, or Potentate, spiritual or temporal, shall use, enjoy, or exercise any manner of jurisdiction, power, pre-eminence, authority, superiority, or privilege, spiritual or ecclesiastical, within this realm, or any other of Her Majesty's dominions or countries."
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : And I, on the contrary, hope that the House will see the wisdom and the propriety of adopting the proposed Amendment. The first objection of the hon. and learned Gentleman to the
 304 in foro conscientiœ 305 "All our subjects are equally bounden to their allegiance as it they had taken the oath, because it is written by the finger of the law in their hearts, and the taking of the corporal oath is but an outward declaration of the same." 306
 LORD EDWARD HOWARD  said, that he should be sorry to appear ungrateful to hon. Gentlemen opposite. One of the earliest measures of practical kindness to the Roman Catholics came from Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House, who were the first to give them Roman Catholic chaplains for the army, but their views respecting these oaths contrasted unfavourably with those of the Government, He looked with suspicion upon words borrowed from old Acts of Parliament, for they reminded him of intolerance in times gone by, which he would fain hope would soon he forgotten. Roman Catholics had always been loyal to the Queen and to the country; and why were they to be subjected to tests which implied doubt and distrust? He therefore entered a protest against all the Amendments of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), and left the matter, without the slightest fear of the result, in the hands of the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I would correct a slight error into which the noble Lord appears to have fallen. He has spoken of this oath as if it were to be administered to the Roman Catholics alone; but such is not the case. We propose that it should be taken by all the Members of this House, if it were levelled at any particular sect, I am prepared to admit it would be objectionable; but the principle asserted in it has never been disputed. I beg permission to remind the Attorney General that Lord Hale says that the Oath of Supremacy is but an expansion of the oath of allegiance, and that Chatham said on one occasion that Parliament had no more right to interfere with the principle of the Supremacy of the Crown than it had to set aside the Bill of Rights or Magna Charta. That is a principle of our Constitution which is not to be got rid of by any ingenious observations as to the absence of any necessity for making such a declaration. The term "spiritual jurisdiction" was explained in this House by Lord Westbury when Attorney General. He observed that—
 "Much misunderstanding had arisen respecting the matter, mainly in consequence of a misconception as to the meaning of the words of the original statute. The House would there find the words 'spiritual' and 'ecclesiastical' used to express different things. The word 'spiritual' referred simply to jurisdiction." 307 "All that was meant by supremacy of the Crown was that no power or jurisdiction should be exercised by any tribunal or court of justice which was not derived from the Sovereign."
 MR. SYNAN  said, he thought that the word "supremacy" included spiritual supremacy. It was an ambiguous expression, and he, as a Roman Catholic, objected to an oath which would call upon him to declare that no such authority was vested in the head of his Church. It was very hard that Roman Catholic Members should be exposed to observations and charges to which the term might subject them.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the hon. Gentleman who had just addressed the Committee told them that the word "supremacy" was open to more than one interpretation. But he should remind the hon. Gentleman that that word was not at all
 308
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not approve the Amendment as it stood, but thought it could be rendered satisfactory by making a slight addition to it. He felt the force of the Attorney General's objection to the clause; but as the alternative would be no declaration of the Queen's supremacy at all, he would vote for the words with a view to propose such an addition to them as would render them satisfactory to his views.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he would move that the Chairman should report Progress, in order that the Bill might be reprinted, with a view to its re-consideration in Committee. In the opinion of many the alterations proposed came within the category of those changes of the Constitution which Lord Chatham held to be beyond the jurisdiction of the House of Commons. The only argument brought forward in favour of the Bill was that it would give satisfaction to the Roman Catholics. But the hon. Member for Tipperary (Mr. Dillon) had declared that, even as regarded the first part of the oath, he and his coreligionists would not accept it as anything satisfactory. At a great meeting in Ireland of a body called the National Association, at which the two archbishops of Ireland, thirteen bishops, eighty associates, and 500 members handed in their names or their subscriptions, the hon. Member for Tipperary, supported by the Dean of Cork, stated that however inexpedient the Fenian movement might be, it represented a Catholic spirit as widespread throughout Ireland as the Catholics themselves; that they must look for the redress of their grievances not to what Parliament could do for them, but to the sympathy that Ireland, the Poland of England, could command from America and France.
 MR. DILLON  said, he did not recognize any speech of his in the description given by the hon. Member. He certainly never said what the hon. Member ascribed to him, nor anything like it.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the hon. Member was reported to that effect in the ordinary journals, but it was almost impossible to fix the Protean character of Roman Catholic sentiment. On the occasion to which he referred the Dean of Cork stated that it did not follow because Members of the Government did not think fit to embark in the particular vessel proposed by the Fenian movement that therefore they would give up their purpose, which was to obtain for the people of Ireland rights at present with-
 313 314
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not the slightest objection to reprint the Bill, but the hon. Gentleman must know that no order for reprinting could be made till the Bill had been reported, and that by reporting Progress the reprinting would be prevented. After it had passed through Committee he should move that it be reprinted with a view to its consideration on the Report.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he understood that another opportunity was not to be given for the consideration of the Bill in Committee, which was the object he had in view, and that the Government merely negatived his Motion.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not consent to a Motion for reporting Progress, as there was virtually only the short title of the Bill remaining for consideration, but there was no objection to reprinting the Bill as soon as it was reported.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, his object was to give the House another opportunity of considering the Bill.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask when it was intended to consider the Report? The important question with respect to the Supremacy of the Crown had been discussed under disadvantageous circumstances.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he proposed that the Bill should be reprinted at once. There were no important alterations. He proposed to take the Report to-morrow, and the third reading the first thing on Monday, when the hon. Member would have an opportunity of recurring to the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GRAY  replied that it was important to have a permanent Act, similar in principle to that proposed by Her Majesty's Government two years ago, for the purpose of checking the spread of contagious diseases among the cattle, both as to those brought to this country from abroad, and to cattle removed from one
 286
 MR. FREVILLE SURTEES  said, he fished to ask the Under Secretary of
 287
 MR. BARING  said, in reply, that the contemplated Orders, as far as he was then enabled to state them, were that hides and skins imported from foreign parts, India, Australia, and South Africa, for manufacturing purposes, should be allowed to be moved without restriction; that no hide or skin of any animal that had died from, or been slaughtered on account of, the cattle plague should be moved at all; that no hide or skin of any animal that had been in the immediate neighbourhood of any animal affected with the cattle plague should be moved, unless it was first thoroughly disinfected, and a certificate had been obtained from the local authorities of the district; that no local authorities should be empowered to give any other orders with respect to the movement of hides and skins; but it would be in the power of the Privy Council to make further Orders on the subject if it thought them necessary.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, the gun which the other day burst after firing 400 rounds was one of a pattern not yet adopted by the Government, and was certainly not of the same pattern as the gun which was now being issued to the navy. It was one which was lately constructed in the gun manufactory of the Government. He had not yet received any detailed report in reference to the matter, and therefore could not say whether the accident was to be attributed to any defect in the quality of the iron; but if the hon. Member would wait a few days he (the Marquess of Hartington) should be able to afford him fuller information.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND  (Mr. LAWSON) said, with respect to a Question put to him by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) on a previous occasion, he wished now to state that, while no summons was issued for the meeting of the Convocation, the Senate did issue a summons for a meeting of their own body, which was afterwards countermanded. He understood that the Senate thought it would be better not to hold that meeting pending the changes which might be proposed to be made in the constitution of the institution.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that owing to the pressure of his other duties, he could not say that since the discussion on the second reading of the measure in question he had been able to make great practical progress in that matter. It should, however, be his endeavour to frame clauses embodying the suggestions which he had then thrown out, and he would take care that ample notice should be given to the House before they were brought on for discussion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am very sorry that through inadvertence I omitted to reply to the Question put to me by the hon. Gentleman. In his speech on a former evening, which I heard with great satisfaction, I did not catch his Question. With regard to the first of the Questions which he has just put—namely, that with respect to a Return of the electors assessed to Income and Property Tax—I am afraid that it would be extremely inconvenient to furnish that Return, It would take a considerable time, and, I am afraid, would involve great expense. I doubt very much whether its value would be at all commensurate with the time and expense which the collection of the facts would require. As regards local taxation, an important distinction may be drawn between those who pay and those who do not pay; but as regards Imperial taxation, I am not disposed to think that a very important distinction can be drawn between those who pay and those who do not. I think the hon. Gentleman's Question seems to proceed from the supposition that those classes who pay direct taxation are more heavily taxed in proportion to their income than those who do not pay direct taxation. Now, I believe that is an entirely erroneous supposition. I think that persons in humble circumstances must pay in indirect taxation—most of all in the taxation on spirits and tobacco—quite as large an amount of taxation in proportion to their income as those classes who pay direct taxation—probably, a larger proportion. I may be right, or I may be wrong. I know that an opposite opinion is held. Four years ago an article appeared in the  Edinburgh Review 324 primâ facie 325 Veniam petimusque damutque vicissim.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Vote under consideration was a Vote for stores for the naval dockyard.
 MAJOR WALKER  said, he had gathered from the sketch which the noble Lord had given of the  Achilles
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that a change has taken place in the method of charging the indirect and other expenses in the Royal Gun Factories since the years 1861–2; and, if so, what difference would have been occasioned in the price of
 285
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, that he and some hon. Friends of his had proposed clauses, the provisions of which had been introduced into one of the Cattle Bills, and had passed unscathed through the House of Lords. With the view of extending the principle of those provisions to Scotland, he begged to move for leave to bring in a Bill to regulate the inspection of cattle-sheds, cowhouses, and byres within burghs and populous places in Scotland.
 MR. DE GREY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether he has had any Correspondence with the Board of Guardians of Downham Market, in the County of Norfolk, on the subject of a Retiring Pension to one John Chamberlain; and, if so, whether any steps have been taken to remedy the injustice complained of; and if he has any objection to produce the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown on this subject, if any has been given?
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the House as well as himself always listened with the greatest respect to whatever fell from the hon. Baronet on this subject, because they were sensible that he could have no other object in view than the safety and honour of the country. Our annual Estimates, however, were very large, and he had failed to discover any reason from the hon. Baronet's speech for proposing to make them larger. The hon. Baronet had on this, as on former occasions, compared the number of iron-clads which we now possessed with the line-of-battle ships of former days. It was quite true
 320 321
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was glad the hon. Baronet appreciated the efforts which the Government had made to maintain the reserves. He did not wish to be always parading our force, but if he were to enumerate all the available reserves over and above the actual number of men at sea, the hon. Baronet would be far from dissatisfied on that head. With regard to ships, their numbers, though very much less than in former times, were, in comparison with those of other nations, very considerable. With regard to both ships and men, be believed that this country had not, since the great war, been in so satisfactory a state as it was at the present time.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : The trials not being complete, the horse-power of the  Bellerophon
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, the Estimate included coals.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Sir, with regard to the observations which have fallen from my right hon. Friend opposite respecting certain statements made by the noble Duke in another place, I think it would, perhaps, be better to leave that matter to be dealt with by the noble Duke himself. But, Sir, I wish to lay before the Committee my opinions respecting the armour-ships. But previous to doing so let me assure the hon. Member for Lincoln that he does the Admiralty considerable injustice. No one approves more than I of his undertaking the task which he has assumed. I am very proud to hear it said that I also in former days undertook the same task; for I think an invaluable service is rendered the country by hon. Gentlemen who keep a sharp watch upon the naval expenditure. At the same time, it is well that they should be accurate in their remarks. I think he said that our stores were something like five times the amount of our annual consumption. [Mr. SEELY: Or thereabouts.] This of course comprises the consumption represented by Section 1 of Vote 10, which amounts to £1,000,000 in round numbers. My hon. Friend really ought to state fairly what the expenditure is when he makes such a charge; for whereas the expenditure in private yards is entirely on account of shipbuilding and repairing, our Vote includes an item of £380,000 for coals consumed by the fleet and in the dockyard. He will also find that the Vote includes an item on account of materials for making dockyard machinery. This, it will be observed, materially qualifies the statement he made. I am sure he did not do it intentionally, but the statement conveys an erroneous im-
 341 Warrior Warrior. Scorpion's Lord Warden Lord Warden Warrior Lord Warden Hercules Hercules Warrior Lord Warden. 342 Monarch Hercules Bellerophon Monadnock 343 Agincourt. 344 Hercules Warrior Black Prince. Hercules Black Prince Warrior. Hercules Alabama
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : We intended and expected that the speed of the  Amazon Alabama.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : If our ship does not turn out to be so fast as the  Alabama Warrior Black Prince Huascar Scorpion Wyvern
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the establishment of an iron shipbuilding yard at Chatham was decided on from grounds of public policy. It was a snug place far away inland, and the Admiralty knew very well that the approaches were difficult, and that no vessel drawing above a certain depth of water could he alongside. The river now was in process of being deepened, and he trusted that such an occurrence would not take place again, but that where a vessel was laid down there she would be finished. He was sorry the hon. Member for Liverpool should have imputed to him that he had made statements to the House which were not correct. What he stated with respect to the  Amazon Bellerophon. 353 Amazon Research Enterprise.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, in the absence of his noble Friend (Viscount Cranbourne), he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is his intention to propose any clauses in Committee on the Church Rates Abolition Bill embodying the suggestions made by him on the second reading of the Bill for the settlement of the question; and, if so, when he will lay those clauses upon the table of the House?
 MR. SCHREIBER : Sir, since I placed upon the Paper the notice of Motion which stands opposite my name, I have enjoyed an opportunity of calling the attention of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the House to the nature of the information which I venture to think is necessary before this House should be invited to legislate upon the question of "Reform." And I can assure hon. Members that I have no intention of inflicting on them a repetition of the arguments which I employed on that occasion. But, while I gladly acknowledge that I received from the right hon. Gentleman a most patient and attentive hearing, I would remind him that I did not receive what, perhaps, I should have valued even more—an answer. Availing myself, therefore, of the forms of this House, I now repeat the Question which I put upon a previous day. Can the right hon. Gentleman, and, if so, will he, lay upon the table of this House a Return of the number of electors on the existing registers, who are assessed to the Property and Income Tax? Because, Sir, we know that the new voters will not pay it; and when we know how many of the present voters do not pay it, we shall see to what extent the taxing power is to be placed in the hands of those who do not pay direct taxation. In the next place, Sir, I ask the
 323
 MR. SEELY  said, that according to a late Return the stock of stores in the Government yards amounted in value in April 1865 to £4,884,573. If he compared the amount of stores, the work done in a year in Government yards with the amount of stores and work done in private yards, he found that while in the latter the value of the stores was one-fourth of the value of the work done, in the former, the value of the stores was about three times the value of the work. He asked the noble Lord to point out a single instance of such extravagance in any private establishment. He thought, therefore, that instead of being called on to vote the large sum which was now proposed a smaller amount would be quite sufficient. As the Government had £5,000,000 stores in the yards it was unnecessary now to vote another million. The stores were now at too high a figure by £2,000,000. He believed that if an independent Committee, not composed of officials, were called upon they would unquestionably say that this £5,000,000 of stores was unnecessary for the amount of work done in the Government yards in a year.
 MR. SEELY  said, he thought therefore that he was quite in order. If there was kept up from year to year a larger stock of stores than was necessary by an amount of £2,000,000, and if the interest on that value was taken at 3 per cent, it appeared that the Admiralty were wasting some £60,000 a year. He would now compare the expense of building ships in private yards with the cost of ships constructed in the Government yards. It appeared from a Return before the House that the  Warrior Black Prince Achilles Achilles Black Prince Warrior Achilles Achilles. Achilles Warrior Warrior Achilles Black Prince 333 Niger High flyer Sparrowhawk Niger Highflyer Sparrowhawk 334 Achilles
 MR. SEELY : Coals! I refer to a Return of naval stores presented to the House, including wood, iron, and so forth, but not coals.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS , in reply, said, there had been a correspondence between the Poor Law Board and the Guardians of the Downham Union on the subject of an officer named John Chamberlain. It had reference to a pension that he claimed under the Poor Law Officers' Superannuation Act. It was found that this claim did not come within the provision of that Act, which requires that a man shall have rendered his services exclusively to the union during the period prescribed. It was found that he had been a Registrar of Births and Deaths in that district, which is not, at present, a union office. As the officer, however, is appointed by the guardians, he (Mr. Villiers) had proposed last year that it should be considered an office within the meaning of the Act; and as the Bill which he had brought in was only withdrawn, he intended to renew that preposition this year. With reference to the production of the opinion of the Law Officers of the Crown, which had been taken in Chamberlain's case, he understood it was not usual to produce such opinions in this House, but if the hon. Member desired to see the opinion, it would be open to him to do so, whenever he would call at the Department for that purpose.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he wished to suggest the inauguration of a volunteer naval force. Such a force might be of great service to the country, and it would be nothing more extraordinary than the Volunteer corps established during the last few years, which bad given so much satisfaction. He thought that the money, and the energy, and intelligence now do-voted to yachting might be made available for the defence of the country. He believed that Lords Yarborough and Alfred Paget favoured the project.
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, that the noble Lord was correct when he stated that the question of naval armaments had resolved itself into a question of comparison. All nations were re-constructing their navies, and each was trying to build the most powerful armour-clad ship. He, however, doubted the correctness of the noble Lord's assertion, that the position of England in this respect was satisfactory, and asked whether our navy was predominant or oven adequate for the defence of our interests in any part of the world. He pointed to the Mediterranean, and asked if there was a sufficient naval force there to protect British possessions in that sea, even against any aggression on the part of Italy. He believed there was not, for the Italian Government had more iron-clad vessels in that sea than England had. Were there any iron-clads belonging to England in the Pacific? America had some there. [LORD CLARENCE PAGET: We are going to send two to the Pacific Ocean.] The naval expenditure was very large, and he doubted whether the money was wisely disposed of. He thought that it would be much better to construct smaller vessels instead of those
 322
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, with reference to a Question he had put to the noble Marquess the other evening, as to the endurance of the 12-ton gun, which had burst after firing 400 rounds, he wished to ask. Whether the Government are still satisfied with the endurance of that gun; and likewise, whether the First Lord of the Admiralty, who was receiving those guns on board the fleet, is also satisfied on that point?
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any permanent measure for the prevention of Contagious Diseases among Cattle; and whether the Orders in Council now contemplated are, under any legislative enactment, to he submitted within any given time for the consideration of Parliament?
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If he intends to introduce a measure to alter the Companies Act, 1862, to enable Companies, by special resolution of their shareholders, to diminish the nominal value and increase the number of their shares, retaining intact the original amount of the capital of the Company?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply to the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Fleming) that his hon. Friend, if he referred to the accounts, would find that they had been prepared in proper form. The last item of £21,937 was the actual difference between two valuations at the commencement and at the end of the year, and it was such an item as must have appeared in any account to make it balance correctly. The Estimates under Vote 10 provided for that amount of the stock only which was required to keep up or increase the quantity necessary in the view of the Government. His hon. Friend would find that in this re-
 352
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Resolution he had to propose referred to the Customs tariff in the Isle of Man. The House was aware that the Customs Consolidation Act of 1853 contained provisions by which articles could be introduced into that island at duties considerably less than those required in the United Kingdom. The proceeds of those duties were applied in the first instance to the civil government of the island, then £2,300 were applicable to certain public works, and after a payment of one-ninth of the gross amount for a
 355 s. s. s.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, that if he hesitated to give his approval to the intention of the Government to build new vessels it was because he believed that naval construction was still in a state of experiment, and that little was as yet known either of the best shape of vessels or the best description of ordnance. The noble Lord had given the Committee two or three instances of the resisting power of the vessels now afloat. The  Hercules Monarch 349 Monarch Hercules. Royal Sovereign
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that the 7-inch Whitworth Gun, tiled at Shoeburyness, proved, as regards endurance, to be a failure; and whether any subsequent and special experiments have been made, so as to justify the War Office in feeling confidence in the safety and serviceable qualities of the Whitworth system when applied to guns of 8 inch and 9-inch calibre?
 MR. DENT  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Government have decided upon the compensation to be paid to persons whose cattle were slaughtered by Orders of the Privy Council or the local authorities, previous to the passing of the Cattle Diseases Act; and from what funds such compensation is to be paid?
 MR. FLEMING  said, he happened to have the advantage of knowing neither Mr. Reed nor Captain Coles, but bethought that the conflict of opinion upon this subject was remarkable in such a great ship building country. A vessel of 5,000 tons he thought too large, and it would imply a cost of nearly half a million, he would have appointed a scientific committee to take the opinions of practical men; and, while accepting the results of its labours as a guide, he would not have relieved the Admiralty of responsibility. A ship of 3,500 tons was sufficiently large for all purposes. As the  Royal Sovereign 346 347 348 Basilisk Cadmus Clio
 MR. LAIRD : The  Amazon 345
 MR. LAIRD : With 400 tons of dead weight, 12 knots an hour.
 MR LAIRD  said, he had quoted the figures which he mentioned from the account of her trial given in  The Times 327 Amazon Alabama. Amazon The Times' " The Dan´e Dan´e Amazon 328 Minotaur Prince Consort Research Enterprise Scorpion Huascar Agincourt Bellerophon Agincourt Stonewall Niagara "The question of saving of men must not be merely considered as in proportion to tonnage, but in proportion to the weight of broadside thrown and the work that can be done in actual warfare by such engines of war as well as the moral effects. To illustrate this I must call your attention to the late court martial on Commodore Craven, of the United States Navy, for not having attacked the Confederate iron-clad  Stonewall Niagara Sacramento Stonewall 329 Huascar Huascar " Huascar "Captain Salcedo wishes me to inform you that we arrived here all safe at noon to-day. We left Holyhead about 4 p.m. on the 20th; weather moderate, until midnight; made the run to Bardsey (32 miles) in 2½ hours. After that it blew harder and harder, with a heavy sea right ahead; shipping heavy spray, but nothing you could call a sea. When nearing Scilly it moderated; after passing the sea and wind were much less, made Ushant lights at 10 p.m. oil the 22nd. The ship behaves remarkably well at sea. Captain Salcedo thinks that when we have a little more weight out of her forward to lighten her she will be everything he could wish. The engines behaved remarkably well, with very little trouble." Huascar Monarch 330 London Amalia " City of Baltimore Kangaroo City of New York City of Boston Etna City of Cork 331 Scorpion Wyvern.
 MR. LAIRD  said, that the amount asked for by the Government for the purposes of the navy this year was a very large one, and that it was the duty of the Committee to inquire whether any, and, if so, what improvements had been made in the construction of our iron-clad ships. The building of that class of vessels was commenced five or six years ago by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droit wich (Sir John Pakington), and they were originally intended to have a certain rate of speed. The Admiralty, however, after wards came to the conclusion that they were too long for the purpose, and set about constructing shorter ships, by which it was contended the same results might be attained. A number of these vessels, however, including the  Warrior Royal Oak Royal Oak 326 Agincourt Bellerophon. Agincort Bellerophon The Times Agincourt Bellerophon
 MR. LAIRD  said, he rose to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether, looking to the great importance of the annual "Wreck Register" being published early during the Session of Parliament, he can state how soon he will be prepared to lay the "Wreck Register for 1865" upon the table of the House?
 MR. SAMUDA  said, the Estimate involved three distinct matters. It involved an entire substitution of Royal yards for private yards for building. It involved partial armour-plating. It involved also, what he considered to be the unnecessary size of the vessels. The entire substitution of the Royal yards for private yards was a grave question. It was proper that the Government should to some extent be able to manufacture their own vessels, but it would be most disadvantageous to do this as a general system. The Return which the Government had put forth clearly showed that (without increasing the cost by the large percentage stated by the hon. Member who had just spoken) the cost was greater in the Government than in the private yards. The vessels built in private yards were from 20 to 25 per cent cheaper than those built in the Government dockyards. Thus the  Agincourt Minotaur Achilles 335 Hercules Hercules 336 337 Prince Albert Prince Albert Prince Albert Prince Albert
 MR. DALGLISH  said, that, however brave their naval officers might be, they were not competent to design the vessels they had to command. If the turret-vessel were to be submitted to those officers the country would be put to an immense expense, and in all likelihood the experiment would turn out a failure. Instead of themselves designing a form of ship to give a fair trial to Captain Coles' principle, the Admiralty should appoint a body consisting of three or four shipwrights not connected with the Admiralty, and add one or two
 354
 MR. GRAVES  said, he hoped nothing that had fallen from his lips had led to the inference the noble Lord had drawn. He had not supposed that the noble Lord would come to the House and make statements which were incorrect; he believed every one of his statements. All he had said was that the results were not in accordance with those statements. With regard to the  Bellerophon
 MR. GRAVES  said, he thought it would be well for the Committee to consider whether the assurances held out that night by the Secretary to the Admiralty were likely to be realized. Having carefully watched the statements made year after year when these Votes were taken, he had arrived at the conviction, which was confirmed by the
 350 Amazon Amazon Danae Bellerophon 351 Bellerophon bonâ fide
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I hope the "Wreck Return for the British Isles for the year 1865" will be on the table of the House almost immediately after Easter, and that a similar Return of British ships lost abroad will be produced in a month afterwards.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, the subject has been under consideration with the view of introducing a Bill, but all the provisions of the measure are not yet settled. I hope, however, to be able to lay a Bill on the table shortly after the Easter recess.
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether he has seen any grounds for changing his opinion, expressed in this House on the 27th of June last, that Mr. Patrick Robert Welch should be suspended from the discharge of his duties as Registrar in the Leeds Bankruptcy Court pending his criminal prosecution for corrupt practices in obtaining, of attempting to obtain, a judicial appointment; if so, to be so obliging as to state them to the House; and whether, after the evidence taken before the Select Committee on the Leeds Bankruptcy Court, he is of opinion that Mr. John Miller is a fit and proper person to discharge the very responsible duties of Chief Registrar of the Court of Bankruptcy?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether his attention has been directed to the Act 21  Geo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was quite necessary that the Privy Council in making new Orders should include in them provisions applicable to this subject. But when the hon. and gallant Member spoke of the next quarter day, he doubted whether it would be possible to issue Orders for the whole country in time for so early a day. Until the existing Orders were superseded by a general Order the Courts of Quarter Sessions might make provisions for changes of tenancy.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Sir, I am anxious to remove from the mind of the hon. Member for Lincoln (Mr. Seely) any impression that I intended the slightest discourtesy to him when I stated that in my opinion he had exceeded the fair limit; of discussion. I may add that we are all very much indebted to the hon. Gentleman for the labour with which he devotes himself to the examination of the Estimates. It appears, indeed, to me that the hon. Member for Lincoln is pursuing, with re-
 338 339 Warrior Black Prince "Admiralty, March 21, 1859. "Sir,—In reply to your letter of the 17th inst. I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that your plan of a shot-proof screen has been received and is under consideration.—I am, Sir, your very humble servant, H. Corry." "Admiralty, 18th May, 1859. "Sir,—I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to acquaint you that in compliance with the request of the Secretary of State for War, Major General Peel, they are pleased to permit your employment on a Committee in the War Office.—I am, Sir, your very humble servant, W. G. ROMAINE." 340
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he rose to order. The hon. Gentleman was not speaking of the Estimates, but of a Return.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was very much struck by the remarks of the hon. Member for Liverpool (Mr. Graves) that sixteen feet of temporary funnel had been added to the  Bellerophon
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he was sorry that his noble Friend had dealt so lightly with the way in which, as had been alleged, the funnels had been placed on a vessel in order to give her artificially increased speed on a trial trip, and thou removed. He was perfectly ashamed of the trick. If it were true, as had been stated, that means were resorted to to give a vessel artificially a speed she could not otherwise have, and if those means were withdrawn afterwards, he (Sir John Pakington) must say that the speed so obtained was a deception, and that any statement to be afterwards made to the House respecting that speed would be a false statement. His noble Friend said he had never heard of it, and he (Sir John Pakington) would put a question to him on a future day to ascertain if such a trick had been resorted to, and he begged his noble Friend would ascertain what was the fact.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, the noble Lord had misunderstood him. He had stated that we still retained the men, but had lost the ships.
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the importance of continuing the construction of the Iron-clad Men-of-War, and to move for Returns of the total cost of the building and equipment of the  Warrior Agincourt 316 317 318 319
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he wished to ask the hon. Member for Sandwich, When the Report of the Commission on the Irish Constabulary, which sat recently in Dublin, and over which he presided, will be laid upon the table of the House?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that he proposed to postpone the second reading of the Writs Registration (Scotland) Bill and the Summary Procedure Bill until the 16th of April. If the former Bill should be read a second time he should propose to refer it to a Select Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the case is as stated by the hon. Member for North Hampshire, and I apprehend that the 19th and 20th sections of the Act contain a complete description and answer to the Question of the hon. Baronet (Sir Frederick Heygate). The vote is given generally to the copyholds of the clear annual value of £10, and to leaseholds of the clear annual value of £10, if the lease in respect of which the elector claims to vote was originally granted for not less than sixty years, and to leaseholds of the clear annual value of £50 if the lease was originally granted for not less than twenty years. There is a provision also as to sub-leases and assignees of leaseholds. These sections remain untouched by the Bill. It is by the repeal of the following section, the 21st, that the class of voters referred to are let in.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, the question had been placed so well before the House by his noble Friend, that he felt assured the Secretary for War could scarcely refuse to accede to the proposal made. In most of the remarks which had fallen from the noble Lord he entirely concurred, but he did not quite agree with him in thinking that men before entering the army were at all the worse for a little roughing. Many Gentlemen opposite no doubt recollected the time when at Eton they had to brush not only their own, but the boots and clothes of other persons; nor were they to be regarded as worse members of society on that account. Before he sat down he wished to express a hope that the noble Marquess at the head of the War Office (the Marquess of Hartington) would inform the House whether it was true that the Government had deemed it right to reduce, under certain circumstances, the amount of provisions for the cadets at Woolwich? The question was one of importance, because growing lads required not only good food but a sufficient quantity of it. He was reminded by an hon. Friend sitting below him that a few years ago horses which had become unserviceable for the artillery were used as food for the cadets. That, no doubt, was an exaggeration; but he should like to learn from the noble Marquess whether the food of the cadets had been reduced, and, if so, whether he thought it right that those young men should be put on short commons?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, I am sure that the subject brought forward by the noble Lord in a manner so able and creditable to himself will be admitted to be one of great interest and importance. Still I do not think it desirable that the House should agree to an Address for a Commission of Inquiry. The noble Lord is probably not aware that not further back than 1857 there was a Commission, though not a Royal Commission, appointed by Lord Panmure, to inquire into the whole subject of military education. That Commission consisted of Colonel Yolland, of the Engineers; Colonel Swift, of the Artillery, and the Rev Mr. Lake the Commissioners then investigated the whole subject, travelled over the whole of Europe, made themselves acquainted with the various plans of military education in Europe, and investigated the system at that time in force at Woolwich, with reference more especially to the scientific branches of the army. They made a very full and able Report, and I am prepared to lay the Report on the table or to place an adequate number of copies of it in the Library of the House. The system of the Military Academy at Woolwich was materially changed shortly after the appearance of that Report, and the new system at present in force there was almost entirely based on the recommendations of the Commission. Various modifications were also made in consequence of the suggestions of the Council of Military Education, and the result, as far as the scientific branches of the army are concerned, are admitted, I believe, to be eminently satisfactory. I did not understand the noble Lord to say that the system at present in force left anything to be desired in a scientific point of view, but he called attention to complaints on the part of cadets of their treatment, and to disturbances which have taken place. Those disturbances have not been frequent,
 435 436 437
 GENERAL PEEL : There can, Sir, be no difference of opinion either as to the importance of this subject, or the merits of the speech by which it was introduced. My noble Friend (Lord Eustace Cecil) wishes us to see the Report of the Commission, and I must, say I was rather surprised to hear what fell from the noble Lord the Secretary of State for War on that
 438 439
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he thought no one acquainted with the present condition and the past history of these Colleges could doubt that very great reform was needed. The question, moreover, whether there should be one or two Military Colleges, was of great importance. The right hon. and gallant Member who had just spoken, than whom there was no higher authority, had expressed his opinion in favour of a single College, and that opinion had been backed by other high authorities; but he (Captain Vivian), for reasons which it was unnecessary to go into on that occasion, humbly ventured to offer an opposite opinion. The Council of Education was not the body to decide a matter of this nature. A question of such importance could only be properly considered by a Royal Commission. The Secretary of State for War objected to the Motion which had been so ably brought forward by the noble Lord opposite (Lord Eustace Cecil), on the ground that a Commission was in existence that had been appointed by Lord Panmure; but he knew very well that great alteration had been made at Woolwich and Sandhurst not only with regard to the education of the cadets, but also as to the period of life at which persons were admitted, and this step alone had materially affected the administration of those Colleges. He hoped on these and many other grounds that his noble Friend would consent to the appointment of a Royal Commission, and he was persuaded
 440
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he did not recollect any promise being given by the Government that the powers vested in the Executive by the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act should be exercised with great leniency. But however that might be, the first object of the Government was to preserve the safety and the peace of the country, and after that to see that no unnecessary hardships were inflicted. As it was a matter of considerable importance, he thought it desirable that there should be no misunderstanding with respect to it. It was obviously right and desirable that no unnecessary hardship should be inflicted on those prisoners. The case of those confined in the gaol of Waterford had been brought under the notice of the House; the Attorney General for Ireland had inquired into that case; and the hon. Member for Cork (Mr. Maguire) admitted, after the statement of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, that the charge made in that particular instance had not been borne out. But the hon. Gentleman referred to the alleged ill-treatment of prisoners in the county gaol of Cork. Now, upon that point, he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) could only state that when any such abuse as that of which the hon. Member complained was indicated in any credible manner, the Government would immediately cause an inquiry to be instituted for the purpose of ascertaining whether such proceedings had actually taken place. The Government held firmly by the principle that unconvicted prisoners who were arrested under the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act were to be treated in the same manner as all other untried prisoners. He ventured to promise, on the part of his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland, that inquiry would be made into the Cork county gaol case, or any similar case; and that was the only assurance he could then give upon the subject.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : I did not hear any expression fall from the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) that appeared to call for my interposition.
 MR. BARING  said, he thought that the hon. Member's speech might have been more appropriately delivered on the second reading of his own Bill, to the principle of which the Government could not agree, because they did not think that it could be acted upon to any public advantage. With regard to the statesman who had been alluded to by the hon. Gentleman, and whose name always carried with it the greatest possible respect in that House, he must observe that Sir George Lewis was not at the Home Office subsequently to the Report of the Committee of 1864, and that while at the Home Office he brought forward no such measure as that described by the hon. Gentleman. He was, therefore, unaware of the grounds on which the hon. Member stated that Sir George Lewis would have supported such a measure.
 MR. BARING  said, he must remind the hon. Gentleman the Member for Peterborough that the Committee of which his hon. Friend the Member for Hereford was
 464 465
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that though not a Member of the Committee he had given evidence before it. Considerable difference of opinion prevailed as to the Report. He most approved the last paragraph but one, in which reference was made to the system adopted in Scotland and South Wales. Tolls were not abolished in South Wales, but the trusts were consolidated, and that system had given the greatest satisfaction. He hoped the Government, notwithstanding the reproaches of the lion. Member (Mr. Whalley), would continue the course it had hitherto pursued. He believed that Sir George Lewis had expressed himself in favour of tolls. After all, this constituted a very fair plan, whereas that of rating was a hap-hazard system, under which one man paid for what another enjoyed. A gross injustice would be caused by resorting to the parochial system, and the plan of the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) was exactly that which provoked the Rebekah riots in Wales, the trusts being deeply in debt and the tolls being absorbed in meeting the interest upon it.
 MR. OTWAY  said, that several hon. Members wished to make remarks on the Vote for new works which had come on unexpectedly, and had just been carried  sub silentio,
 MR. MOFFATT  said, it appeared to him that flag officers, according to the proposal of the noble Lord, were to retire after a certain time; but an important exception was made in the case of those officers who had hoisted their flags or been employed in the Admiralty, seeing that by Clause 7 they would not be called upon to retire. There were 112 Admirals altogether interested in this matter, eleven of whom would be compelled to retire, while 100 would remain. He suggested that the noble Lord should postpone the Vote, that the subject might be more fully considered.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he understood that Vote 14 was to be postponed. He should not oppose Votes not objected to, but it would be his duty to propose the reductions he had given notice of.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he had some observations to make on this Vote, but the hour (half past ten o'clock) was rather late to proceed with it. There were many hon. Members not present who were anxious to make some observations upon it.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped that the hon. Gentleman would not persevere in the Motion. There was every disposition to meet the demands of hon. Members for delay, but it was, he thought, too early an hour to stay the further discussion of the Estimates. The understanding was that the Army Estimates would be taken if they were brought in before eleven o'clock.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that such was the understanding, but since then Vote 14 had been postponed, and a great many Members were not aware of the change.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought such a Motion should not be made before eleven o'clock.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he was quite certain that there would have been a greater attendance of Members if it had been thought likely that the Vote would have been proposed that night.
 MR. NORWOOD  said, that, pursuant to notice which he had given, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the constitution of the Council of Military Education. That Council as at present constituted was, he said, the result of the disasters which had occurred during the Crimean War. A Royal Commission had been appointed in 1856, to take into
 474
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not aware that there was any change in. the original intention with respect to applying the five years' rule to the Military Council of Education, or that any assurance had been given to the officers composing the Council that their appointments would be differently circumstanced from ordinary staff appointments. He did not see the grounds why the rule should not apply to those officers, but, on the contrary, it seemed to him that the rule applied with greater propriety and convenience to their appointments than to many staff appointments. One object of the five years' rule was, that positions of this description should be held by a succession of men, who would import new ideas and bring fresh minds to the consideration of many questions, also men who knew something of the feeling of the army and of the progress of public opinion with respect to the great question—education. With respect to many appointments, such as that of the Adjutant General, the Quartermaster General, and other staff appointments, considerable inconvenience must ensue when an officer who had held an office for five years, and had become efficient in the discharge of its duties, suddenly quitted it and was succeeded by one comparatively unacquainted with the duties; but surely, when a Council was composed of five or six members, the appointment of one new member every now and then could lead to no practical inconvenience. He had never heard it argued that the members of the Military Council were to be held incapable of receiving promotion; indeed, only a few weeks ago General Hamilton, President of this Council, had been appointed to a command. If the hon. Member wished to carry out his views, he must abolish these promotions. He was not aware that the Military Council and the Horse Guards came to any serious collisions. Differences of opinion there might be, but they were always referred to the War Office. The Council was the mainstay of the competitive examinations. They were conducted under the superintendence of the Council, but it was not true that the Council themselves conducted those examinations. All the Council did was to recommend the examiners, receive their report, be present at the examinations, and exercise a general supervision. For the selection from the candidates, the examiners, and not the Council, were responsible.
 Mr. NORWOOD  said, that there was an order which compelled every member of the Council to sign its reports, and if a report unpalatable at the Horse Guards was made, the officer who signed it might, after the term of five years, when he gave up his office as member of the Council find that he had lost all chance of promotion. He was strongly of opinion that the fact of the examiners of the Council sending back a friend of the Horse Guards from, the examination might be fatal to the subsequent promotion of the members of the Council, and this could not tend to their independence.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he wished to ask whether the resignation of the officer after the term of five years was to be compulsory? He thought it perfectly right that the Commander-in-Chief should have the power of retaining in office any of the members of the Council longer than five years, if necessary. One or two of the members had been appointed as far back as 1858. The Council was perfectly independent and had shown its independence. It would be seen from the Report of the Committee on Military Organization, that when the Commander-in-Chief suggested that, as there was a scarcity of officers, three young men who had attained superior marks, though they had failed to obtain the compulsory number, should be passed for commissions, the Council was against the Commander-in-Chief, and no one acquiesced more readily in their decision than the Commander-in-Chief himself.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the rule was not peremptory in every case.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he should like to know whether the rule with regard to the five years' appointments was compulsory or not? He could not help thinking the system of the five years' appointments would be most detrimental to the service.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to know what was the precise application of the rule as to these five years' appointments? The noble Marquess stated that it was not peremptory. Were the members of the Council to serve no longer than five years, or would it be competent for the Commander-in-Chief to re-appoint them at the end of five years? He could not agree that because the Council had hitherto been independent, they would always be so. Hitherto they had not been subject to this five years' rule, and, therefore, they
 477
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was not able at the moment to apply to the rule itself, but he thought he might say with regard to all staff appointments they were to be for a term of five years. There was, however, a discretionary power in the Commander-in-Chief and the Secretary for War to extend the term if the exigencies of the service should require it. It only applied to military appointments. It had never been proposed to extend the
 478
 MR. OTWAY  said, he thought that when the subject of the chronic state of rebellion of the cadets at Woolwich was brought forward, the answer referring the House to a Report issued in 1857 was insufficient. This state arose from alleged insufficiency of food and other matters, and the Report of 1857 could have no sort of connection with the present state of things whatever. The whole of the present system pursued at the military colleges had been formed since the Report was issued. And so with regard to the discipline at Sandhurst. If there was one officer more important than another at Sandhurst, it was the Major Superintendent of Studies, who was supposed to understand everything, and to be able
 479
 COLONEL FANE  said, he thought there was no good reason why boys should not go to Woolwich at fourteen or fifteen, and enter the army at an early age, as their fathers did before them. If that course were followed one-half of the professors and other persons employed in disciplining the cadets might be done away with.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the change in the age was a consequence of the recommendations of the Commission to which he had already referred. It was then thought that the defects in the two institutions were owing to the extremely early age at which the cadets entered. The present discussion had resulted in a proposition to increase the pay of the Major Superintendent of Studies. That was the only practical suggestion that had been made, and it was remarkable that it often happened that some proposition for increase of pay was the only fruit of a discussion which turned upon an economical question. He was not able to give an explanation why the pay of the Major Superintendent of Studies was not higher, but he would endeavour to find out, and he had no doubt that next year they would have to propose to raise the cost of these institutions considerably. He should wish to know whether there was any ground for saying that there was an insufficiency of food, or that the quality was not good. He felt quite surprised to hear that there could have been any complaint on the subject.
 MR. OTWAY  said, it had been the alleged cause of the disturbances which had taken place at different times.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that if there were good authority for the statement the matter ought to be inquired into at once.
 GENERAL PEEL  said, he hoped that a Commission would be appointed to inquire into the whole subject of the education of the army.
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  said, that he concurred in the recommendation just made.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) spoke as if nothing had been done towards the abolition of turnpikes, but having sat on Committees on the subject for fifteen years, and having most of that time acted as Chairman, he could assure him that they had been acting on a regular system. They could not get rid of tolls all at once, but the aggregate debt had been reduced from £9,000,000 to about £4,000,000, and in no instance had the market value of the mortgage bonds been depreciated, for though the interest had been reduced this had been counterbalanced by the better security that had been given. Not a year elapsed in which the Committee did not reduce the debt and close some trust. Only those, however, acquainted with the circumstances of the different trusts could appreciate the injustice which would be done to parishes in certain districts by suddenly abolishing the tolls, and throwing the roads upon the
 466
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that this Vote was intended to secure a better flow of promotion in the Royal Navy by extending the system of compulsory retirement, including the flag list. The scheme had already been laid before the House in detail, and he need not therefore advert to it at any length. The object of the scheme was to retire the flag officers who had hitherto been exempt from the system of compulsory retirement. It would not, however, deprive them either of the pay or of a rise in rank from that of rear to full admiral. Although in certain cases there might be honourable and distinguished officers in the navy who might feel that their position was somewhat damaged, yet he felt satisfied that such was the public and honourable feeling of those officers that they would not stand in the way of a proper flow of promotion which would
 468
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the scheme had been before the House for a week. He had been anxious that it should be discussed at an early date, because the navy were desirous that it should come into operation as quickly as possible, for there was a stagnation of promotion in the navy. The hon. Member for Southampton (Mr. Moffatt) had not given a fair view of the position officers would occupy under the system now proposed. The plan of the right hon. Gentleman on the Opposition side of the House (Sir John Pakington) met with serious opposition at the time it was proposed, because it included officers who had hoisted their flags and had had an opportunity of distinguishing themselves as flag officers. The scheme now before the House, however, would not affect an officer who had hoisted his flag or had served in the Admiralty. Flag officers on the retired list would rise in pay and rank precisely in the same degree as they would have done had they been on the active list. If his hon. Friend behind him thought that officers who had hoisted their flags, or who had served in the Admiralty, should not be exempted from compulsory retirement, let him make a Motion to that effect. He had no wish to press his proposal now if the Committee were in favour of deferring it.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that the matter was before the House then. His hon. Friend (Mr. Seely), the naval Reformer, ought to discriminate between that which was right and that which required correction. Every flagship had a certain number of naval cadets and disposable officers of every grade available for service as they were required in other ships. It was true they had a much greater number of Admirals and flag officers than was necessary for the navy, but there were many gallant and distinguished officers who had fought and bled for their country whom they could not treat unfairly. The Government were moving gradually in the direction of reducing the upper classes in the navy by filling up only two out of every three vacancies, their object being to bring the establishment down to the proper requirements of the service. The captains' list was being reduced. The lieutenants formed the pivot of the whole, and at the present moment they were short of lieutenants. During the past year the entries of cadets of the first class numbered 176; and if they meant to keep up the list of lieutenants they would have rather to increase than decrease the entries into the navy. His hon. Friend (Mr. Otway) had remarked that while the admissions to most other branches of the public service were open to competition, the entries into the navy were confined entirely to choice, and, in fact, it might be said went by patronage. That was a matter which deserved discussion in that House. It was desirable that there should be the means of throwing open a portion at least of the admissions to the navy to competition. A difficulty presented itself to that in consequence of the tender age at which boys entered the navy. A boy might afterwards grow up to be a person of great character, although when only twelve years old he might not have exhibited any striking degree of intellectual development, and it had been thought that they could not apply the principle of a competitive examination to boys of that early age. That was one of the principal reasons which had, of late, at least, prevented the Government from introducing that principle into the navy, although it had been adopted as regarded the Marines. Under the present system nominations were made
 471
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  said, he rose to make the Motion on this subject which stood in his name, namely—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to appoint a Royal Commission, consisting of Military and Civilian Members, to inquire into the present constitution, system of education, and discipline of the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and of the Royal Military College at Sandhurst, as well as into the general treatment of the gentlemen Cadets, as also into the rules and regulations under which candidates are admitted into those Colleges." 424 425 426 s. s. s. s. 427 428 429 430
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that this was a scheme to effect acceleration of promotion in the navy, by making room at the top of the list. Although he did not object to it, he was anxious to call attention to another class of measure which might be adopted for the same purpose, but affecting the other end of the list. He thought that the object of quick promotion in the navy might be attained by not admitting so many into the junior ranks of the service. In the army there were no more officers taken on than there were occasion for, but that was not the case with respect to midshipmen in the navy. In a first-class vessel the proper complement, he was told, was sixteen midshipmen, but twenty-four were always taken. He should like, therefore, to hear some official statement from the noble Lord as to what was the rule of limitation as to taking midshipmen.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he thought that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside), had erred against the usual practice of not travelling beyond the terms of his Notice in commenting on the proceedings of a legal tribunal. He fancied, from the notice given by the right hon. Gentleman, that his statement would relate to the conduct of the High Sheriff. But what had the right hon. Gentleman done? He had given a graphic and a more or less correct account of the Monaghan election. The right hon. Gentleman produced no authority for his statement, but only said that it was a true account. Now, it so happened that, living in the neighbouring county, he had himself formed as to the facts of the case an opinion totally at variance with the statements of the right hon. Gentleman. [Mr. WHITESIDE: They were all proved.] But the right hon. Gentleman did not say where or when they were proved. Statements with respect to elections in Ireland were not unfrequently made in that House which afterwards turned out to be inaccurate. The statements made by the right hon. Gentleman must have reference to what passed at the trial, and the right hon. Gentleman constituted himself a volunteer reporter, and gave his own summary of the evidence on what was, after all, a collateral issue, because the question as to the manner in which the election was conducted was not before the jury. He thought it most undesirable that counsel engaged in trials, criminal or otherwise, should come to that House and give their own statements of the evidence which had been adduced. With respect to the trial at Monaghan, the simple fact was that a man had been tried for murder and acquitted by
 453
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that he had no intention of misleading the House. He thought that the right hon. and learned Gentleman had said that the gentleman who became High Sheriff in 1866 did conduct voters to the poll in 1865. That was the statement of the right hon. and learned Gentleman. [Mr. WHITESIDE: No!] The High Sheriff who presided at the assizes, and who formed the jury panel, had taken a leading part in the election. The same gentleman, Mr. Lucas, in 1838 had been charged with a want of impartiality in the administration of justice as a magistrate. An inquiry was ordered by the then Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and Mr. Lucas was dismissed from the commission of the peace. The right hon. Gentleman was not quite accurate in saying that it was to be expected that a majority of the jurors in Monaghan should be Protestants. He lived within a mile or two of the county, and he knew that a
 454 venue. venue 455 The Times "Mr. Whiteside, who conducted Gray's defence with great ability, put the whole matter in a light perfectly intelligible to an Ulster jury when he stated that Shevelin's death, however much to be deplored, might be a salutary lesson to riotous mobs of non-electors."
 MR. AYRTON  said, the House was indebted to the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) for his continuous and persevering efforts in bringing so pressing a grievance before them. Nothing could be more monstrous than to have an army of tax collectors posted over the country, the greatest number of whom only raised enough for their own support. A Committee of that House had condemned the system unequivocally, yet they were told that no remedy was possible, a conclusion which was absurd, for, if the grievance was so bad, some remedy must exist. He understood the Under Secretary (Mr. Baring) to suggest that parties interested in expiring trusts should be allowed to come before Parliament to have their position considered, but he hoped he was mistaken, for such an overture would be very ill-advised. Parties would be only too happy to avail themselves of the opportunity of incurring the enormous expense of private Acts, in order to prolong the existence of the trusts, and he knew of one case in which the debt was only £700, and yet the trustees came before Parliament, at a cost of not less than £500, and so increased their debt to £1,200, much to the satisfaction, no doubt, of the clerk and other offi-
 467
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, a rumour has reached Her Majesty's Government that the Russian forces have been advancing towards Bokhara, but no positive information has reached us on the subject, nor can we tell the object of the advance if it has taken place. But the Russian Government have given Her Majesty's Govern-
 422
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that Her Majesty's Government had been in constant communication with the Ministers and agents of the Governments of Chili, Spain, and Peru with regard to any vessels of war that might be constructing for them in England, and had been assured by them that no such vessels should leave England during the continuance of the war. Her Majesty's Government had every reason to believe that no such armed vessels of war had left England since the war broke out. He might state that the Chilian Minister had of his own accord addressed a written assurance to Her Majesty's Government that no vessel of war now building should be allowed to leave England during the continuance of the war, and that the intention of Chili was to conform entirely to the law of this country.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that he had understood when the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department last night undertook to have this Bill reprinted, that he would have given time to hon. Members to read it, as it now appeared, so that if they disagreed with any portion of it they might have an opportunity of placing Notices of Amendment on the table. It appeared to him that the course adopted throughout with regard to this measure was to force it through the House with as little consideration as possible. No one, however, could pretend that this was an insignificant subject, for it related to the repeal of the greater part of the oath relating to the Supremacy of the Crown and of the law, as it had existed since the first of Elizabeth. It was a measure which ought not to have been decided upon at a private meeting of Members; when the question came before the House it was introduced with the least amount of explanation he had ever heard with respect to any Bill of equal importance. He did not wish to move an Amendment at almost twelve o'clock on such a subject as this; but he therefore gave notice that he would on the third reading (as he had intended on the Report) move that the Bill be re-committed with a view to
 481 "And I do declare that no foreign Prince, Prelate, State, or Potentate hath by law or ought to have any rightful jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority within this realm." The Tablet "In our opinion it would be a good thing if the provisions in the Emancipation Act were repealed, which convert into criminals, punishable by deportation, such of Her Majesty's native-born English or Irish subjects as choose to bind themselves by monastic or religious vows. It would also be very desirable that, as we Catholics are very poor and commit many crimes, we should have the full benefit of the zealous ministrations of our clergy in the workhouses and prisons into which our poverty and crimes introduce us in such large numbers. It would also—at least we think so—be desirable that Catholics in England should be allowed to claim exemption from the payment of church rates for the support of the English Protestant State Church, and that Catholic landowners in Ireland should be exempted from paying rent-charge for the support of Irish Protestant State Church …… In our opinion also it would be desirable that the State, instead of ignoring the sees and titles of the Catholic bishops of England and Ireland, and instead of proscribing those sees and titles, should repeal the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill and recognize the existence and legality of the Catholic Church and of its administration within the realm. Nay, we go so far as to think that it would be a wise and a good thing to give recognized rank and precedence to the highest dignitaries of the Catholic Church within the realm, by making Peers of Parliament of the Catholic Archbishops of England and Ireland …… Moreover, we need scarcely say that, in our opinion, the restoration of regular diplomatic intercourse between the Crown and the Holy See would be most advantageous to all parties; and that it would be a good thing if the relations between the State on the one hand, and the Catholic Church in the British Empire and its dependencies on the other hand, were regulated by a convention between the supreme spiritual authority in the Catholic Church and the supreme temporal authority in the British Empire. In other words, we think that a concordat is advisable. Whether a State endowment for the Catholic Church, its hierarchy, clergy, universities, seminaries, colleges, and schools, would or would not be a desirable feature of the concordat, we do not assume to know, referring ourselves on that point to the wisdom of the Holy See. …. We need not lengthen this list of things thought desirable; we have said enough to indicate the
 482
 MR. SEELY  said, he wished to call attention to the number of officers in the navy, particularly of admirals on the active and retired list. There were already 190 admirals, vice-admirals, and rear-admirals on the retired list. He had been told that only four of these had served their full time as captains. They cost the country not less than £81,510 a year. He made no objection to the amount of their pay, but when he looked at the number of ships in commission, and contrasted it with the number of admirals on both the lists, active and retired, he found there were 148 ships in commission, 190 admirals on the reserved and retired list, and 103 admirals on the active list. That gave more than two admirals to every ship in commission. He could not but regard this state of things as an unnecessary expense to the country and an injury to the naval profession. The case of the flagship  Edgar Edgar, Edgar Edgar.
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If he has any objection to issue the forms of the Church Rate Returns at Easter (at which time the Churchwardens make up their books and change office) with a request that the Returns should be made within twenty-eight days, and not "in the month of June," as hitherto ordered by the Government?
 MR. CRAUFURD  said, he rose to ask the Lord Advocate, What course he intends to pursue with regard to the Writs Registration (Scotland) Bill?
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, in reply, that the Report of the Commissioners had been presented to the Treasury, and was now under the consideration of the Government. He must remind his hon. and gallant Friend that this was not a Royal, but a Treasury Commission, and therefore it would not be laid upon the House as a mere matter of course. He was, however, authorized to state that, considering the importance of the subject, the Report and other papers would be laid on the table when the Government had decided upon the precise course which they intended to pursue.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin University had not adhered to the terms of his notice, which was to draw attention to certain statements in the leading journal— The Times The Times "In this very instance the Orange contingent is alleged to have been led by Mr. Lucas, the present High Sheriff, and if this be true it is certainly an untoward circumstance that a gentleman personally interested in the transaction to be investigated should now fill that responsible position." 456 Cries of "The swearing on both sides was so hard, and the undoubted fact of great confusion prevailing at the time was so favourable to the defence, that an acquittal was inevitable." 457 "That some good might arise from what had taken place, because it would deter others from interfering to prevent the right of voting." venue venue.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that the hon. Member for Hereford (Mr. Clive) had mentioned to him that that was the view of Sir George Lewis; and in an interview on the Highways Bill he had himself been given to understand by Sir George Lewis that such was the case.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to call attention to the Report of the Committee on Turnpike Trusts, 1864, in which they state that—
 "Tolls are unequal in pressure, costly in collection, inconvenient to the public, and injurious as causing a serious impediment to intercourse and traffic, and that the abolition thereof would be beneficial to the community," 463
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he was of opinion that the oath now imposed upon Roman Catholic Members was not the cause of a substantial, but merely of a sentimental grievance. He submitted that this Bill would inflict a further grievance on the Roman Catholic laity, whose interests, it should be remembered, were by no means identical with those of the priesthood. Roman Catholicism, as far as regarded its public position, must be regarded not as a religion at all, but as a political combination fraught with danger to this country. He could see no substantial grievance in Roman Catholics taking the oath which had hitherto been sanctioned by their own dignitaries.
 MR. SELWIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether any communication has been made by the Foreign Office to the representatives in this country of the Spanish Government, as well as to those of Chili and Peru, with reference to any vessels of war which their respective Governments may be building in English yards; and, further, what replies, if any, have been received?
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, I have already stated to the House that a revised classification for the Port of London has been
 421
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, in reply, that the transaction in question occurred in the month of January last, and that, so far as he knew, nothing of the kind had occurred since. The detailed correspondence on the subject would be laid upon the table, and orders had been given to the Coastguard and the constabulary which would prevent the repetition of such a proceeding.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he entirely agreed with the hon. Members that these prisoners ought not to be subjected to any restrictions save those which were required for their safe custody; and he believed that that rule had been fully adopted in the gaol of Waterford. As soon as he saw the Notice which the hon. Member had put upon the Paper he caused inquiries to be instituted upon the subject, and these inquiries led him to believe that the hon. Gentleman had been misinformed upon the case. He had been furnished with a statement from which it appeared that these prisoners were not subject to any severe restrictions, and in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman whether the Government had given specific directions with respect to their treatment he had to observe that the prisoners who were taken up under the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, who were not arrested upon trifling, but upon grave and serious grounds, were under the control of the Local Board of Superintendence, in common with other classes of prisoners, and the Government, therefore, had no authority to give any orders as to their treatment. The treatment to which the prisoners arrested under the measure for the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act were subjected was no exception to that rule. It so happened that the local authorities applied to the Inspector General of Prisons to know how those persons were to be treated, and the answer of the Inspector General was, that they should be treated as untried prisoners; that they should be allowed to supply themselves if they pleased with food, and that they should not be compelled to wear the prison clothes. He (the Attorney General for Ireland) was further informed that those instructions had been complied with—that the prisoners received through their friends abundant supplies of good food, and that they were not obliged to wear the prison clothing; so that the statements made upon the subject by the hon. Gentleman were not well founded, and he must have been misled by his informants.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that he had already stated as a matter of fact that the High Sheriff, Mr. Lucas, was not High Sheriff at the time of the election. He acted merely as an ordinary private gentleman.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that he was not averse to proceedings in Courts of Law being criticized by the press; on the contrary, he believed such criticism exerted a very beneficial influence in the country. He had no objection whatever to Judges, counsel, witnesses, and all parties being fairly dealt with by the critic. The particular journal to which he referred— The Times 448 449 450 451 d.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he had stated that Roman Catholics would not accept them so far as related to the spiritual authority of the Pope.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to call attention to a provision introduced by the Duke of Wellington into a Bill for regulating our diplomatic relations with the Holy See, and to suggest that the principle of that clause might be introduced into the present Bill. It might remove any uncomfortable feeling in the minds of Roman Catholic Members.
 MR. BAGWELL  said, he thought the manner in which the Government carried out the extraordinary powers conferred upon them ought to be jealously watched. Those powers, however necessary, should be exercised in the way that was in the least possible degree offensive to the people of the country. Persons were now sometimes taken up in Ireland upon very trifling reasons, and they certainly ought not to be subjected to any harsher or more stringent restrictions than were necessary for their safe custody, and the prevention of their carrying on any conspiracy against the Government. It should be understood that the Government took charge of that class of prisoners, and that the magistrates should not be held responsible either for their safe custody or for the mode in which they were treated, and he trusted that orders to that effect would be issued. He would recommend that the Government should send round to the different gaols instructions stating what was the treatment which the prisoners should receive.
 MR. BLAKE , in calling the attention of Mr. Attorney General for Ireland to the severe restrictions to which the prisoners arrested under the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act are subjected to in the gaol of Waterford, and to inquire whether specific directions were given by Government as to the treatment of these prisoners; and, if so, whether he has any objection to state the nature of such directions; to which of the prison authorities they were transmitted; and through what medium; said, that in bringing before Parliament what he considered the unnecessarily severe restrictions to which the political prisoners confined in the gaol at Waterford were subjected to, he could assure the House that he would not bring the matter forward unless he felt quite sure there was great hardship in the case which he was about to detail, and that it ought to be redressed without delay. He had voted against the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act chiefly from a feeling that so extreme a measure was not required, and that it was more than probable it would be used in a very arbitrary and tyrannical manner by underlings of the Government anxious to show their zeal. What was going on in the city he represented went very far, he thought, to prove he was right in his anticipation. Over a dozen prisoners were confined there on suspicion of complicity with the Fenian conspiracy. The prison was a new building, constructed, he supposed, on the most approved principle for punishment and security. To aid the prison authorities in more effectually guarding the prisoners he alluded to, a military guard was provided, armed sentinels paced up and down before the doors of the cells, and in the exercise yards. Hitherto the Board of Superintendence had the management of the prison, and their directions were carried out by a local inspector and the Governor. He thought the section of the Act of Parliament which he would read was very clear, as to their powers and duties—
 441 "7  Geo. "All prisoners shall be admitted, at proper time in succession, to air themselves in the yard, or yards, for at least two hours every day; except prisoners under sentence of death, or such as are disorderly, or when there may be sufficient cause to apprehend that any escape may be attempted." 442 443
 MR. GEORGE  said, he must express his astonishment that a simple Notice such as that placed upon the Paper by his right hon. and learned Friend should have led to a debate of such a character. His (Mr. Whiteside's) object was to correct an in-
 458
 MR. MAGUIRE  thanked the hon. and learned Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell) for having expressed the opinion of every rational man in the country on that matter—namely, that while the Government had a right to be supported in the maintenance of law and order, they would not only deserve censure if they went one jot beyond
 445 446
 MR. MAGUIRE : Mr. Deputy Speaker, as a matter of Parliamentary—shall I say, practice?—I wish to ask you, whether one hon. Gentleman is to be allowed to stand up and declare, without any knowledge on his own part, that a statement, conscientiously made by another hon. Gentleman, will, on inquiry, prove unfounded? I can only say, that if that is our practice, the sooner we have a Reform Bill the better.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, that the Edgar was a flagship, and that the excess over the complement of other ships was usual.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, there had been two statements made upon that occasion—one with regard to the gaol of Waterford, and the other with regard to the county gaol of Cork; but the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Maguire) who had alluded to
 447
 MR. TREEBY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether Her Majesty's Treasury have decided upon a revised classification for the London and Outport Clerks of Customs; and, if so, whether any, and what, steps have been taken for the ameliorations of the condition of the lower class of Her Majesty's Collectors of Customs at the Outports?
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN  said, it was not his intention to find fault with the
 452
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, that having read the article in  The Times The Times The Times, The Times 459 460 461
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, he thought that Mr. Lucas had reason to complain of the way in which he had been dealt with in this discussion. He contended that the hon. Member for Longford had unjustly raked up a dismissal of that gentleman from office which took place: twenty-eight years ago. Since then Her Majesty's Government had thought it right to reinstate him as High Sheriff for the county; the Judges recommended Mr. Lucas for the office, and the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General had sanctioned that appointment. He had been struck by an observation that fell from the Solicitor General, that no person was allowed to assist in a ease conducted by the Crown. Now, from his own knowledge, he had found this statement to be incorrect. He knew that solicitors and counsel had been allowed to act with the counsel for the Crown, and he had himself held a brief under such circumstances. The next of kin had repeatedly instructed both solicitors and counsel, and they had taken their turn in the examination of witnesses. With respect to the time which had been occupied in the discussion, he did not think that the paragraph which had been referred to could have been made intelligible without giving a statement of the facts which had led to it.
 MR. ACLAND  said, that as one who felt a deep interest in the subject under discussion, he thanked the noble Lord for the manner in which he had introduced it to the House. In consequence of the notice that had been given by the noble Lord in reference to this subject he had deemed it his duty to spend a day at Sandhurst. The question, however, was not, he thought, so simple as the clear and able statement of the noble Lord would make it appear. It had been investigated by two Commissions and one Committee of that House, and the point was whether Sandhurst and Woolwich were so managed as to provide the professional knowledge requisite for an officer in the army, without discouraging the liberal education suitable to an English gentleman? How those two requirements were to be combined was a matter which it was not easy to decide. He could not help thinking that it was extremely difficult to learn any business except by experience in that business itself. The views which he entertained on the subject he derived from no less an authority than one of the most distinguished officers of our army, the late Field Marshal Lord Seaton. No officer ought, he thought, to be raised to the post of captain without distinct professional knowledge beyond an acquaintance with the ordinary regimental duties, but he thought that knowledge ought to be acquired after joining the service, and a good liberal education was the best preparation before entering the army. The important subjects involved in the question had not been neglected by the Council of Military Education. The Commander-in-Chief had given to them his best attention, and if the present Military Colleges were not all that the army required, it was not for want of due consideration. Having visited Sandhurst so lately, be could state, with respect to the birdcages and other hardships to which it was said the cadets were exposed, that he believed them to belong to a bygone state of things, although there was little doubt that formerly the boys were treated with an amount of restriction and espionage which did not, in his opinion, furnish the best mode of forming the characters of English officers. He understood that many alterations were in progress, and was glad to find that the responsibility with respect to Sandhurst rested on two officers, who were fully competent to the discharge of the duties required of them,
 432
 MR. BEACH  wished to know, at the same time, whether the 19th section of the Reform Act governs the qualification of copyholders, and the 20th section that of leaseholders in a borough to vote for a county?
 MR. COGAN  said, he did not think the time of the House had been at all wasted in discussing the administration of justice in Ireland, and thought a great deal of credit was due to the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) for having brought the Monaghan trials under the notice of the House. There was a widespread feeling of astonishment and dissatisfaction at the manner in which the trials had been conducted, and it was a striking fact that the jury panels, consisting of 300 persons, contained the names of only fifty-seven Roman Catholics, and that the first panel contained no more than seven, so that under no circumstance could more than seven have been challenged. It was a matter of surprise, considering what happened years before, that the present Sheriff should be in that office at the time of the trials. He considered it the duty of the Government to deal with the jury laws in Ireland so as to prevent such a miscarriage of justice as had taken place in this instance, where a foul murder had been committed and no person had been made amenable to justice.
 MR. COGAN  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether his attention has been drawn to a report that sheep have been recently landed in the North of Ireland from Scotland; if he has ascertained whether there is any truth in such report; and, have the Government taken any steps to punish this violation of the Law, and to prevent its recurrence?
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  said, that on the contrary, he believed there was a
 469
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What is the amount, by the proposed Reform Bill, of the annual beneficial interest in a copyhold or leasehold property situate in a borough which will convey to a resident in a borough a vote for the county, as is now done by an annual freehold interest of forty shillings?
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the forms of the Returns might, no doubt, be issued at Easter, but the Secretary of State could not desire that they should be made up within twenty-eight days, and not in the month of June, as the Act of Parlia-
 420
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I did not understand the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield to say that the hon. Member for Cork had stated anything that he knew to be untrue. He only said that he expected that the statement of the hon. Gentleman would, on inquiry, turn out to be unfounded.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it would have been better if the hon. Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) had given notice of what he intended to move on Monday. With regard to what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Whiteside), the House would not have forgotten that the right hon. Gentleman had voted yesterday in favour of the insertion of words which would have the effect of excluding every Roman Catholic from Parliament.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) was of opinion that the clause he had referred to was applicable to the present Bill, he
 483
 SIR HENRY RAWLINSON  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If Her Majesty's Government have received any information of the march of a Russian force under General Tchernaief from Tashkend upon Bokhara; and, if so, what may be the avowed object of such an expedition?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he desired to call attention to one point relating to the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich. The competitive system of examination pursued there for entrance had attracted to the annual competition some of the best taught young men in all the great schools of England, and when they found that out of 150 persons who were examined only seventeen or eighteen passed, that was sufficient to show that the test was very severe. A great hardship connected with the first examination was that, though they were then put through their classics and various other branches of a liberal education, in the great schools for their proficiency in which they derived a great proportion of their marks, the same subjects
 433 434
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he thought that little difference would be made by postponing the Vote till the following Friday. Every Member ought to have an opportunity of expressing an opinion on the proposal. For his own part, although he approved its principle, he would not pledge himself to the details. He wished, therefore, to have time to consider it, and he trusted the noble Lord would deem it right to make a statement as to its whole scope.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  (having just entered the House) said, he wished to ask when the noble Lord intended to invite the attention of the House to the plan for
 470
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he wished to express his sense of the importance of the proposal made by the noble Lord. He thought it should have occupied a more prominent place in the Estimates. A great change was proposed, and the House ought to have received notice of the time when it would be brought forward. It had taken him by surprise. He did not wish it to be understood that he disagreed with the plan of his noble Friend. On the contrary, when he left the Admiralty six years ago he put into the hands of the Duke of Somerset a plan similar to that of the noble Lord, involving the compulsory retirement of officers at a certain age. He then entreated the noble Duke not to consider the source whence the plan emanated, but to look at it only in connection with its bearing upon the interests of the service. Seven years had elapsed since that time, and the noble Duke had made various changes in the system of promotion. He was not prepared to discuss the details of the plan now before the House, because he had not known when it would come under their consideration. He had, however, been startled by what had been said by his hon. Friend on the opposite side of the House (Mr. Moffatt) as to the extent
 472
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am obliged to my hon. Friend the Member for Poole (Mr. Henry Seymour) for putting his Question, because although the two questions are not identical, yet they are so far clearly of the same kind as to be more conveniently answered together. What I have to say is simply this: that we should certainly not hold that we had freed ourselves of the obligation which we undertook with regard to the representation of the people until we had brought under review the question of the present distribution of the seats. At the same time I must state, as I have stated before, that we must reserve our own freedom—to be exercised as our sense of duty may suggest—as to the choice of the opportunity. And, Sir, with respect to the question of boundaries, what I would say is this: that we can do nothing upon that subject or on any other until we can in some degree see our way with regard to the important proposals which we have submitted to the House. But, after a settlement of the question of the franchise has been attained, I certainly think it would perhaps be our first duty to issue a Commission for the purpose of examining whether in any cases the towns which are now in possession of the franchise are still of the same extent as they were when their boundaries were fixed, or whether in any instances they require revision.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Report of the Committee had only been received a very short time. He was not even aware of what view his noble Friend at the head of the Admiralty took of the recommendations of that Committee, and it was impossible therefore to say at present to what extent the recommendations could be adopted either as respected the army or navy.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND  (Mr. LAWSON) said, he begged to state, in reply, that his attention had been called to the report in the newspapers of a speech purporting to have been delivered by Mr. Gwynn at a meeting of Protestants held at Antrim on the 12th instant, and certainly there were some extraordinary statements in that speech, Some expressions were there employed with reference to the Lord Lieutenant having stated that he expected an immediate invasion of the country, which he had his noble Friend's authority for stating were entirely destitute of foundation. With regard to the hon. and gallant Gentleman's question as to landlords proposing to enrol their tenantry, he had no hesitation in stating that such a proceeding would be illegal. The hon. and gallant Member asked what course it was proposed to take on the subject. Until the case arose the Government could not take any steps in the matter; but similar repre-
 489
 MR. BARING  said, in reply, that the case of the officers who received compensation under the Act relating to Metropolitan Turnpike Trusts was a special one, and that that Act had no effect upon the position of the clerks of turnpike trusts generally. The clerks of roads only held office under Continuation Acts, and he was not aware that any of them had ever received compensation.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply to the first part of the Question of the hon. Member, that he was not
 490
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he could only state what was the intention of the Bill, and not the particular legal effect of the wording of the clause. The clear annual value was governed by the same standard, whether the immediate subject of inquiry were compound houses or houses where the occupier paid the rates. The intention was that the real value should be judged by the same test in the case of compound householders and ratepaying householders, and that compound householders should neither inhabit better nor worse houses than ratepaying householders. That was the law at present, and it was not intended to introduce any alteration in it.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, he regretted that the right hon. Gentleman should have taken the view he had as to the inspection of the railway trucks. When the subject was lately before the House the almost universal opinion appeared to be that, in order that those trucks should be thoroughly and effectually cleansed, it was necessary that the work should be done under the superintendence of some authority external to the railway companies themselves. We had already some experience as to what Orders in Council could do in the proposed direction. An Order had been issued last autumn for the purpose of enforcing the disinfection of their trucks on those companies, but that Order had been disobeyed. He hoped, therefore, the right hon. Gentleman might be induced to reconsider his determination in the matter, and that we should have no more of that  laissez-faire 496
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he wished to know if it were the intention of the Government to continue the prohibitions with reference to the railway traffic after the 25th instant. As far as he understood, the Order by the Privy Council gave power to the local authorities to fine a railway company £5 if their trucks were not disinfected; but would that answer the purpose they had in view without adopting means to obtain the necessary information? [SIR GEORGE GREY: Anybody might inform against the infraction of the Order.] He had no great faith in Government inspectors being sent over the country; and besides, that would be almost an impossibility. Hitherto, the difficulty which they had laboured under was, that when the local inspectors complained of the condition of the trucks they had no power to inflict a fine; but now that under the Order in Council a fine could be imposed and levied, it would answer all purposes.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, the proposal now made established altogether a new precedent, and he trusted the House would
 499 500
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In the first place, allow me to say, with regard to Election Committees, that when this matter was mentioned on a former day I stated that it remained for consideration whether Election Committees ought to be included in the Motion. The case of Election Committees is altogether a peculiar case. I was not aware that more than one Election Committee had been appointed, nor did I suppose that any question would arise with respect to Election
 501 502
 MR. BRIGHT : From what the right hon. Gentleman has said it is quite clear that Government did not think it desirable to advise the Queen to order a general fast
 503 504
 LORD STANLEY  said, he did not think it necessary to argue the general question whether the arrangement was good or bad, but he thought it desirable that the Government should explain the distinction they took between Election Committees and Committees sitting on Private Bills. In both cases counsel attended; in both cases parties were put to considerable expense; and in both cases the inconvenience of an adjournment was very and equally great.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he did not see why any exception should be made in favour of Election Committees. The hon. Member (Mr. Bright) entirely overlooked what was at the bottom of a proposition of this kind. It was a Motion to permit a limited number of Members, for a limited period during the day, to perform what they believed to be their religious duties. It was, in fact, a case of the rights of conscience. [ A laugh from the Benches below the gangway. 505
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had correctly stated the purport of the letter which he addressed to the Archbishop of Canterbury. The Government adhered to the opinion therein expressed; but, a day having been set apart in many dioceses where the plague had been severely felt for special services, in order to implore the Divine blessing on the means that were adopted to arrest its ravages, and the Bishop of London having appointed to-morrow for the same purpose in his diocese, he (Sir George Grey) thought it was only right that Members of the House who desired to do so should have the opportunity of attending morning service to-morrow. Election Committees, however, were regulated by statute, and the House had only power on their being sworn to fix the hour at which they should meet on the first day of the inquiry. If, therefore, these Committees had been appointed a day earlier and were actually sitting, the House would have no power to interfere with the ordinary course of procedure.
 ADMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, that the Committee of which he was Chairman, had agreed, in deference to the notice given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not to meet to-morrow till one o'clock, though they felt that many witnesses would be detained who had probably humiliated themselves in their own dioceses, whose expenses would have to be borne by sonic-body or other. He was afraid, too, that the arrangement proposed would be of very little avail for the object in view, for it being his duty to attend his Committee at one o'clock, he could not possibly attend church, as sermons were unfortunately nowadays of such great length.
 MR. HUNT  said, that referring to the question of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley) in the case of Election Committees every Member was bound to attend within one hour of the meeting of the Committee, and if then absent the Chairman was
 506
 MR DEPUTY SPEAKER : I must ask the leave of the House to make a short explanation in reference to the direction given from this Chair at the time the Election Committees were being sworn. T believe that it is the usual practice that such a direction is given to Election Committees as to the hour at which they shall sit on the first day. Seeing the notice of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the paper, as to all Committees not meeting until one o'clock, and not conceiving that any objection was about to be raised to it, I thought it my duty to inform the Committees that they should meet at the hour about to be proposed by the right hon. Gentleman. I never conceived in doing so that I had myself the authority to direct the hour. I merely thought that I was calling attention to what I believed would become an order of the House, and any intimation which I have given must of course be, as I always supposed it would be, subject to, and conditional upon, the order of the House.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that if, after what had taken place, it was considered advisable to except Election Committees, there could be very few Committees, indeed, on which the Motion could take effect. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had urged the desirability of unanimity in such a matter, and, after the feeling which had been expressed in opposition to the Motion, he thought it was hardly worth while to persevere with it.
 MR. ELLICE  said, that nearly two hours had elapsed since the Committee, of which he was a Member, had received the direction to meet at one, and some of his colleagues had left the House under the impression that it was a definite arrangement. It was not unlikely, therefore, if they met at eleven that some would be absent, and would have to be reported to the House. He hoped, under these circumstances, that the arrangement would be adhered to in the case of those Committees to whom the instructions had been given.
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  said, he concurred with the hon, Member for St. Andrew's
 507
 MR. ADAIR  said, that until there was an actual vote of the House no one was in a position to desire a Committee to meet at one o'clock. What was suggested was a most unusual course. He accordingly proposed that the Nottingham Committee should meet at half past eleven. If all the Members were not present within an hour of that time, it would be his duty to report the circumstance to the House, which would, he was sure, show its accustomed consideration in such a case.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that as the only Chairman of a Committee to sit to-morrow who had not yet spoken, he might observe that he acquiesced at the time of being sworn in the Chairman's suggestion; but he looked on that direction as conditional on the decision of the House on the present Motion, and he did not think with the hon. Members for Macclesfield and St. Andrew's that any one would be misled by what had taken place. It was still perfectly competent for the Election Committees to meet at eleven, and if the House so decided, he would follow their instructions. It should be remembered, he would remark, with reference to the Question of his noble Friend (Lord Stanley), that there was a difference between these and other Committees, for Election Committees were bound to sit through the Easter holydays if their labours were not previously concluded, and it was therefore desirable that their proceedings should commence as early as possible.
 MR. BARING  said, that the substance of the proposed Orders had been agreed to on Saturday last, but that it would take some little time to place them in proper shape. As to the other point, it was a question as to what could be done and what could not be done. It would be impossible to organize before the 25th of March a system under which all the railway trucks throughout the country should be inspected by Government officers. The only practical way of proceeding in the matter was to impose the duty of cleansing on the railway companies, rendering them liable to a heavy penalty if they failed to do so. That penalty would come under the operation of the 11 & 12  Vict.,
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  said, he had already informed the Totnes Election Committee that it should meet at the same hour as the other Select Committees.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  put the Question, that the Totnes Election Committee should meet at one o'clock.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Out of respect to the hon. Member I propose to offer a few words on the notice of Motion placed on the Paper, although the hon. Member has not moved it. The speech of the hon. Member involves the old fallacy that the supremacy of the Crown depends on the oath taken. I think the more the hon. Member's propositions are considered the more entirely the House will be confirmed in the opinion that we had much better get rid of the form which he supports altogether. The hon. Member seems to desire that we should at this table swear obedience to one particular law, but we are not required to swear that we will obey any other, though equally binding. The forms which are superseded by this Bill, as the hon. Member says, merely go to establish the supremacy of the law. But the law rests upon its own authority, not upon the oath taken here. With reference to the Amendment the hon. Member has upon the Paper, I think it is the worst of all suggestions that have been made in reference to the matter under discussion. In truth, it would be going back to the old form before the time of Roman Catholic Emancipation. As far as the proposed wording of the oath declares that no foreign Prince, Prelate, State, or Potentate hath by law any rightful jurisdiction or authority in this realm—it affirms a mere truism which nobody would seek to deny; but it goes on further to affirm that no such Prince or Prelate ought to have any jurisdiction or authority within this realm, whereas Roman Catholics, in a certain sense, think such jurisdiction ought to exist. By putting such words into the
 517
 MR. KER  said, that unless the oath of supremacy as well as that of allegiance were retained there might at some future period be a difficulty in defining the meaning of the words "being Protestant," by which the succession to the Crown was limited. If, therefore, the hon. Member
 518
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the hon. Member who had brought forward the subject with great care, and in a very proper spirit, had shown the question to be well worthy of the consideration of the Government and of the House; but as he was not aware of the calculations and figures by which he proposed to make out his case, the hon. Gentleman would not, he trusted, think him wanting in respect for him if he felt himself unable at the moment to follow him. He admitted that there were strong reasons why a quicker relief of Indian troops would be of great advantage to the army. It seemed to him, however, that the hon. Gentleman's calculations of the expense were somewhat below the mark.
 523
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had heard with great satisfaction the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade, that he was not satisfied with the present state of the law on this subject. That was an important statement, coming from him in his situation. The right hon. Gentleman also stated that it was under his consideration and that of others, whether it was possible and how to amend the law. He believed others concerned, especially those who came under the operation of the law—masters and commanders in the merchant service—regarded it with universal dissatisfaction. It was not possible that it should be otherwise, and the very circumstance that had brought about that dissatisfaction was the original vice by which such inquiries were marked. They could not have a court of inquiry and trial at the same moment conducted on principles either satisfactory to those concerned or doing justice. The spirit of inquiry was one thing; trial was distinctly another; and if they attempted to mix the two together they rarely arrived at a satisfactory conclusion on either. How had the system acted in the case of the  London? 544 Duncan Dunbar. vexata quæstio. 545 546
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  said, that, as he (Sir John Pakington) had already addressed the House, his doing so was out of order.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  said, that the rule was that no Member could address the House twice in the course of the same debate, and unless the House consented that the right hon. Gentleman should be allowed to speak he must conform to the rules.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he wished to ask, Why a portion of the expense incurred by keeping up a naval force on the coast of India was not borne by the Indian Government? It was quite true the fleet of seven ships stationed there might not be exclusively employed for purposes connected with India; but it was mainly so, and for that reason he thought some portion at least of its cost should be charged against the revenues of the Indian Government as was done in the case of the Army Estimates instead of being wholly borne by the Imperial Government.
 MR. MOFFATT  said, that considering the Supplementary Estimate under consideration had only been presented to hon. Members on Saturday, some few words of explanation were required from the Secretary of the Admiralty respecting it. Without such an explanation it was incumbent upon them to read it in their own way. It appeared that the noble lord asked the
 555
 ADMIRAL SEYMOUR  said, that very few men would consent voluntarily to be placed on the shelf, and he, for one, was opposed to the scheme of compulsory retirement, particularly when the principle was not applied to other professions. It was not applied to generals in the army, or bishops in the church, or Judges in the law, nor did he see why the naval profession should be singled out by being retired at a certain age. If, however, it were thought necessary that compulsory retirement should take place the proposal of the Government was, he thought, far better than that of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington).
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  said, he moved the adjournment of the House. He complained of the way in which it was unfortunately the usage to bring Irish questions on for discussion. The Bill which the Government now proposed to read a second time at ten minutes to twelve o'clock contained 193 clauses, and he would ask the House, as a deliberative assembly, whether it was possible for them at so late an hour to do justice to the measure. He must further state that the Bill, under the mask of a great arrangement, would, in reality, perpetrate a great Government job, inasmuch as its operation would be to create a Vice Chancellor a place worth £4,000 a year, thus adding to the legal establishment in Ireland, which was notoriously already overmanned. He knew he should have the support of the senior Member for Brighton (Mr. White) in resisting a proposal in which a question of such importance as a matter of economic arrangement was involved at so late an hour of the night. It should be introduced at a time when it would have deliberate discussion.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND  (Mr. LAWSON) said, he thought the House would be surprised to learn that a measure which had been stigmatized by
 565
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, that he objected to the discussion of Irish Bills at such a late hour.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it useless to prolong the discussion, and he would agree that the Order of the Day should be postponed till Wednesday.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  remarked that he would in the first instance place himself in a fair position on the attention of the House, by saying that he was not personally concerned, nor could be benefited by the present vote; in fact, every successive Board of Admiralty having for long years past precluded him from following up his profession. He could not, therefore, be misunderstood when rising on the present occasion to raise his voice against any compulsory retirement of officers proposed. He denounced the proposal as being in character most unfair and unjust, discreditable to the Admiralty in proposition, and one which it would be in his opinion unworthy of the House of Commons to sanction, inasmuch as it was to the prejudice of men who had risen to high distinction by meritorious and gallant exploits, and who would have their hearts broken by being placed on a compulsory retired list. On the other hand, the country would gain nothing by the measure—
 559
 MR. HANBURY-TRACY  said, he agreed with the gallant Admiral who had just sat down that this scheme would inflict great hardships upon many brave and excellent officers, who had not only the will but the ability to continue their services to the country—men who were fully capable of active service, and who, therefore, naturally disliked to be placed on a retired list. The measure would bear very hard upon many old admirals who naturally looked forward to hoisting their flag, or obtaining a seat at the Admiralty Board. The noble Lord had stated that there would be fifty-three exceptions to the general rule, but he had forgotten to mention that there were other admirals, some of whom had served their country well, but who would be compelled to retire if this scheme were adopted. He sincerely hoped that the noble Lord would either omit the seventh clause, which made the exceptions, or give some satisfactory explanation on the subject.
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, he wished to know, whether the inspectors of the local authorities had the power of entering into railway stations to ascertain whether the trucks were disinfected or not? There was considerable difficulty, as he knew from his own experience during
 498
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, the Speaker had no power to direct when an Election Committee was to meet—the Act of Parliament required the House to appoint the hour, and when a Committee was sworn it was usual for the Speaker to ask the Chairman when the Committee would meet; the Chairman named an hour, and then the Speaker put the Question to the House that the Committee should meet at the hour named by the Chairman. The hour of meeting, therefore, was fixed by Resolution of the House. His Motion was therefore necessary.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, he had intended to move that this Committee, which was appointed to sit to-morrow, should meet at eleven o'clock; but after the decision at which the House had just arrived, he felt it to be his duty to move that it be ordered to meet at one o'clock. He found, on referring to the Act regulat-
 508
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the lengthening of the funnels of vessels was a common practice while under trials, and that it had nothing whatever to do with their structure. Messrs. Penn, the makers of the engines of the  Bellerophon, Warrior,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the provisions of the Orders in Council only empowered the granting of a pension to officers of the rank which they held while in active service. The officers referred to were commanders on the active service list, and only commanders' pensions were applicable to them. There was no intention of altering their rate of pay.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he was glad that his hon. Friend approved generally of the scheme, with the exception he had stated. They were all likely to make mistakes sometimes, but he had not often heard errors more egregious than those contained in the figures of his hon. Friend. Instead of amounting to eighty-four the exemptions amounted to three admirals of the fleet, seventeen admirals, eighteen vice admirals, and fifteen rear admirals, making fifty-three in all, a little more than half the number stated by his hon. Friend. The proposition that all admirals should be superannuated or compulsorily retire at the age of seventy had never been put before the House officially, though it had often been discussed, and he had no hesitation in stating that it could never be carried out. The country would not be satisfied to force into retirement the few distinguished officers now surviving who had had the opportunity of serving in our great wars. He need not mention names, but there
 556
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that, although the fleet of seven ships referred to undoubtedly did duty in behalf of India, they also performed Imperial duties. Sir Charles Wood had expressed the opinion that the requirements of the Indian Go-
 554
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, that one would think from the remarks of hon. Members that this was the first time compulsory retirement had been heard of for the navy. The fact was, however, that there were a great number of other officers who were subject to retirement, and all the Government proposed was to extend the principle of age retirement to flag officers. If it were lair for one it was fair for all. The difference between the scheme of the present Government and that of the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) was that the latter was extremely distasteful to those officers who had served in the great wars, and the present Government came to the conclusion that it was not necessary to make such a proposition then. Objections had been taken to one detail of the present scheme and another, but the question was whether the House was prepared to go to a very large expense for the purpose of keeping up the flow of promotion in the navy. The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) knew nothing about the navy. Of course he said this in a friendly sense, but it was difficult to get non-professional men to enter into the details of these questions. They must promote officers while they were young if they wanted an effective service. No doubt in former days men of family were too much preferred, but there was no one who knew anything of the navy who would not admit that the present system of promotion was exceedingly fair, or who would assert that officers were promoted now merely because they belonged to influential families. During the last ten years the Admiralty had promoted on an average twenty-four commanders a year to be captains, and the state of the list
 563 Navy List,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET : Yes. The practice was to promote by selection until they came to the rank of captain. That was the converse of the French system. The French admirals were selected by choice, and the juniors partly by chance and partly by seniority. He did not say that if we had to form the navy afresh the present practice would be established.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that it was a very old saying that that which was everybody's business was nobody's business. To whom was the information to be given in the event of anybody informing against the railway companies for neglect of the duty imposed on them, and to whom was the authority to levy the fine invested?
 MR O'REILLY  said, he rose to call attention to the present mode of conducting the relief of Troops stationed in India. Formerly, when the two armies were distinct, twenty years was fixed as the limit of service for the Indian army, and was afterwards adopted in the case of Her Majesty's troops serving in India, When the Indian army was abolished, and an increased number of Her Majesty's troops serving in India were substituted, it became necessary to make a change; for, twenty years being the full period of a soldier's life, regiments which remained out there for that length of time would be entirely cut off from the rest of the army. It was therefore arranged that ten years abroad and rive years at home should be the rotation, and that the period of ten years' foreign service might be completed either in India or any of the colonies. This decision halted between the two systems. Notoriously, when regiments either went to India or were on the point of returning home a very great change took place in their internal constitution, and it required a full year after the journey was completed to enable them to settle down again. Regiments which remained abroad for twenty years had at least eighteen years' steady work in them. But under the ten years' limit the evils were as great, and the compensating advantages much smaller. The memorandum of the Commander-in-Chief with regard to the Enniskillen Dragoons expressly stated that before their embarkation for India the regiment was all that could be desired in  esprit de corps 519 520 morale pari passu 521 s. s. s. d. s. 522
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to a statement reported to have been made by a Mr. W. S. Gwynn at a meeting of members of the Established Church held at Antrim on the 12th, "that one of the principal landlords in that part of the country had embodied a large number of his own tenantry, whom he had supplied with arms; and the same gentleman had employed drill-sergeants to instruct these tenants;" whether such conduct is legal, or is contrary to the Illegal Drilling Act, and what steps, if any, the Government propose to take on the subject?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he did not believe that any one would suppose from the terms of the Motion given by the right hon. Gentleman that he had intended to read letters and impugn the conduct of the owners in the way he had done. As regarded the mode of inquiry itself, he need hardly remind the House that he had urged the necessity of legislative interference; but he believed that the Messrs. Wigram had not been treated with fairness by the right hon. Gentleman. The object of his Motion merely appeared to be to call the attention of the House to the manner in which the inquiry was conducted, and to ask the President of the Board of Trade whether he proposed to amend the Merchant Shipping Act. That notice did not
 552
 MR. AYRTON  said, that, as this was a matter of great importance, he must claim the indulgence of the House.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know from the right hon. Gentleman whether he had informed the Messrs. Wigram of the nature of the attack which he had intended making on them, so as to give those gentlemen an opportunity of defending themselves?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to know whether the practice of selecting officers below the rank of captain for promotion still existed; and whether admirals, on hoisting their flags, had still the right of appointing an officer?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to call attention to the Select Committee in 1863, on which he and several other Members of the House sat, and which pursued its inquiries during the whole of the Session. The Report of the Committee was discussed word by word, and on almost every paragraph a division took place. The conclusion arrived at was a very satisfactory one, but it was entirely adverse to the scheme now submitted for the consideration of the Committee of Supply. The Committee upstairs had had the advice of several First Lords of the Admiralty, and other officers of distinction. They had examined a large number of the most competent professional witnesses, and had discussed the question in all its bearings. It was, therefore, necessary before the conclusion come to by that Committee was departed from, that the Committee of Supply should have a very clear explanation from his noble Friend of the grounds which induced him to bring forward the present scheme. His noble Friend ought to dispose  seriatim 561 562
 MR. GRANT  said, he had understood the hon. Gentleman to say that wherever there was Government inspection there was a deterioration of accommodation. If any one required protection it was passengers who went on long voyages. Those who observed the condition of vessels sent abroad must be aware that not only was the present supervision needed, but that a more stringent one was requisite. There ought to be a larger number of officers, an inquiry into the kind of provisions, and a close inspection as to whether the vessel was overladen or not. The cupidity of the owner of a vessel frequently knew no limit but the actual safety of his vessel. So far from the owners of the vessel in question having sustained no losses for so many years being an argument that the vessel was not overladen, he thought it was rather an argument the other way. The owners of the vessel appeared not to have suffered from losses of this description since 1809, and to have been their own insurers; but a lengthened immunity from loss should not, in his opinion, have engendered increased boldness, but should have had just the contrary tendency. In his opinion, the Courts of Inquiry as at present constituted were perfectly incompetent; and as for Government supervision of vessels, he would recommend that it be increased rather than relaxed.
 MR. GRANT  said, he must protest against the interpretation which had been put on the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and thought the House was highly indebted to the right hon. Gentleman for having brought the subject before the House. If a calamity involving a large number of lives was not a sufficient matter for inquiry it was difficult to say what would justify an investigation. When a large loss of life occurred there ought to be a full inquiry whether the master of the vessel was competent to navigate it or not. He did not concur in some of the remarks of the hon. Member for Tavistock, who seemed to think that no supervision on the part of the Government was necessary. His own personal experience brought him to a totally different conclusion. The interests of no class demanded the exercise of more Government vigilance and protection than did those of the emigrant or third-class passengers.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that the proposal to place rear admirals on the retired list at the age of sixty-five was a most monstrous proposition. It was simply ridiculous to say that an active, able, clever officer, who was sixty-five years of age, should be turned out of the navy (for that was the real meaning of the retired list) because he arrived at the rank of rear admiral. The past history of the achievements of the navy showed that men had commanded fleets with the most consummate ability, and with the greatest success, at seventy-five and eighty years of age. The 12th of April was approaching, and that was the anniversary of a great naval battle, which was fought by an admiral aged eighty-two. And yet they were told that a rear admiral must be compelled to retire from the service at sixty-five. This was a question, not of
 560
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I feel, Sir, that I ought to crave the indulgence of the House, and to make every apology for again alluding to this subject. But I am anxious to point out that the question now stands in a very different position from that in which it stood on the second reading of the Bill. Had I had the opportunity afforded me, I should have been glad to have submitted the Notice which appears in my name upon the paper to the Committee on the Bill, or else for consideration upon the Report. These opportunities, however, not having been, available to me, I therefore propose to take the following course. Unless I find that hon. Members are inclined to support the re-committal of the Bill with a view to the re-consideration of the oath as it non-stands in the Bill, I shall not make the Motion of which I have given notice-But I desire to call the attention of the House to the fact that this very important Bill, abrogating the oath of supremacy, has been passed without anything like a general discussion. In the course of my experience as a Member of Parliament I have known the question of the oath of supremacy raised more than once in this House; but I have always heard it gravel) and fully discussed, as a question which touches not only the supremacy of the Crown but the supremacy of the law—a supremacy in which this House shares by its legislative capacity as one element of the Imperial Parliament. I wish now particularly to call attention to what occurred in the debate of the 22nd March 1858, when this subject was before the House, On that occasion doubts were ex pressed by some hon. Members of this House, and amongst them by Mr. Stewart, then Member for Cambridge, and by the hon. Member for Sheffield, whether the terms of the oath of supremacy, as taken by the Protestant Members of the House, who form the vast majority of the House, affirming the ecclesiastical and spiritual supremacy of the Crown were truthful; and whether the words contained in the
 510 "He thought the word 'lawfully' might be intelligible, because it would refer to the state of the law here; but 'rightfully' was a vague word which every one might construe according to his own ideas" "They (the House) were certainly in a great difficulty, because the hon. Member who proposed the word 'rightfully' gave it one meaning, while his noble Friend (Lord John Russell) gave to the word 'lawfully,' which he seemed disposed to accept, another meaning. He (Mr. Gladstone) confessed he greatly preferred the meaning which he supposed was to be attached to the word 'rightfully,' as proposed by the Mover of the Amendment. But he did strongly feel that it was hardly consistent with the respect in which they held the very nature of an oath, and the fair claims of individuals, to allow the matter to rest without bringing it to some authoritative solution. It was not a matter for private discussion or opinion, but one upon which the views of Parliament ought to be clearly and unmistakably expressed. For his own part, he hoped the House would be disposed to accept the Amendment of his hon. Friend." "And I do declare that no Foreign Prince, Prelate, State, or Potentate, hath by law, or ought to have, any rightful jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority within this realm." 511 "As in this haughty great attempt, They laboured to supplant the rightful heir, I lost my liberty, and they their lives." 512 "And I do declare that no Foreign Prince, Person, Prelate, State, or Potentate, hath or ought to hare any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within this realm," 513 514 515 516
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , who had also given notice of his intention to put a Question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of the redistribution of seats, said, that as the right hon. Gentleman had given no definite answer to the inquiries which had just been put to him, it was quite unnecessary to trouble him with the further Question of which he had given notice.
 MR. READ  said, he wished to know when the new Orders in Council permanently regulating the cattle traffic would be issued?
 MR. E. C. EGERTON  said, he moved that the Boston Election Committee should meet at one o'clock. He agreed with the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) as to the practice of the House. On the appointment of an Election Committee the Speaker invariably asked the Chairman of the Committee at what hour the Committee should meet, and on ascertaining the time put the Question to the House, by whom the Motion was decided. After the first day the Committee always commenced their proceedings at eleven.
 MR. SULLIVAN  said, that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) had made statements in regard to the Bill which were not borne out by its provisions. He had stated that fifteen new places were to be created; but that was a most egregious mistake, seeing that four only were to be created by the Bill, while it abolished
 567
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether in estimating for the purposes of the Reform Bill the clear annual value of tenements any deduction is to be made on account of Rates; and, if so, whether it is to be calculated on the rates paid to the Landlord or on the Rates which would be paid if there were no composition?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he must object to their proceeding at that late hour (quarter to twelve) with a measure of so important a character.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, that as regarded inspection they should throw the onus of proof upon the railway companies, and make it compulsory upon them, when informed against, to prove that they had disinfected and cleansed their trucks.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished the Government was as ingenious in finding out means to do their duty as in finding out reasons for not doing it. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Milner Gibson) said it would be impossible to find an army of persons to carry out this duty; but he (Mr. Hunt) would say it was perfectly possible if the Government would only nominate the chief local inspectors in the different counties for that purpose. It was easy to say that it was sufficient to lay on a penalty, but how were they to obtain the proof whether a truck were disinfected or not unless it was done by official authority?
 MR. HUNT  said, he rose to move the adjournment of the House that he might have an opportunity of asking for an explanation in reference to an Order in Council made on Saturday last in regard to the cattle plague. The House would remember that all railway traffic in cattle was prohibited up to the 25th of March, and that all trucks that had been used for the conveyance of cattle were to be properly cleansed and disinfected before being again used. The Order to which he referred ran thus—
 "Every railway or other company or person carrying animals for hire within any part of Great Britain shall forthwith thoroughly cleanse and disinfect all pens, carriages, trucks, and boats used by such company or person for holding or carrying animals by a washing of lime water, or, with the approval of the Board of Trade, by some other process, and until such pen, carriage, truck, or boat has been thoroughly cleansed and disinfected as aforesaid, no animal nor any article shall be placed or carried in any such pen, carriage, truck, or boat; and when such pen, carriage, truck, or boat has been thoroughly cleansed and disinfected as aforesaid, such company or person, as aforesaid, using the same, on every occasion after any animal has been taken out of such pen, carriage, truck, or boat, and before any other animal or article is placed therein, shall thoroughly cleanse and disinfect every such pen, carriage, truck, or boat in such manner as the Board of Trade shall from time to time direct, and if any pen, carriage, truck, or boat shall at any time be used in contravention of this order, the company or person by whom it is so used shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding £5 for every time that such pen, carriage, truck, or boat is so used." "Every railway company that carries animals for hire within any part of Great Britain shall, before the 25th day of March next, thoroughly cleanse and disinfect all cattle pens, trucks, and
 493 494
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that before the right hon. Gentleman answered that inquiry he wished also to put a Question to him on the same subject. ["Or-
 487
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that it
 492
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that as the mode of keeping the Finance Accounts was of very long standing, the Treasury had naturally hesitated to tamper with them. They dated as long ago as the year 1822, and the form in which they were kept was fixed by a Committee of the House. It would, however, be necessary to make considerable alterations in the form of these accounts if the Exchequer Audit Bill should pass during the present Session. Matters of account would then be placed on a different footing, and when the accounts next year came under revision it would be proper to make several alterations. The present accounts, ancient and valuable as they were, might, he admitted, be improved in respect to some of the particulars to which his hon. Friend had called the attention of the House.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, the Gentleman who had just spoken had evidently misunderstood the purpose for which these inquiries were instituted, which was to enable the Board of Trade to arrive at a decision with regard to the merit or demerit of the conduct of the commanders of the ships which had been lost. He believed that the tribunal before which these inquiries were instituted was one rather for the protection of the public than for any other purpose. The Board of Trade instituted an inquiry to free the commander from any responsibility, or in the alternative to enable them to exercise the power vested in their hands by withdrawing from him the right to command a sea-going ship. This being so, he agreed with hon. Members who had expressed dissatisfaction with the present scope of the inquiry. As to the objection which had been suggested, that the representatives of the relatives of those who were lost had not been allowed to cross-examine the witnesses, he believed that the President of the Board of Trade had on another occasion answered it by stating that there was no power to admit any such cross-examination. If any new legislation should take place he (Mr. O'Beirne) believed that it would be found that it must be upon an enlarged basis, and that it must enable all those who were intrusted with the loading of ships, the owners and officers of ships, and the relatives of those who were lost, to be represented before any efficient tribunal that should be instituted. Unless this were done, the country would not be satisfied that the inquiry was complete and satisfactory. There were many issues which did not at present fall within inquiries as now held under the Act. No officer was bound to examine and report the condition of a ship when she finally left port. The inquiry, as now conducted, was confined to the character of the vessel, her build, her capabilities, and her water-line when laden. There was nothing to prevent a vessel starting on her voyage with many tons of coal on her deck. Many losses had arisen from that cause, particularly in the North of England. He agreed, therefore, with the opinion which had been so generally expressed, that the present system of inspection was entirely inadequate to the
 551
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether, considering the very unsatisfactory trials of the heavy guns rifled on the Woolwich and Whitworth systems, both in cast and in wrought-iron, he thinks it is desirable to proceed further with the manufacture of guns upon either of these systems; whether he is not in possession of full information, showing that by the use of the oval bore principle much greater endurance can be obtained; and, whether he will place upon the table that information, with the cost of the recent competitive trial between the Armstrong and Whitworth guns?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he concurred in the objection, and moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that while entirely acquitting his right hon. Friend of any intention to mislead the House with respect to the real facts of the case, he must point out that a noble Marquess in another place (the Marquess of Clanricarde) who had taken it into his head to become a Chancery Reformer—had moved for a Commission, which was appointed in 1854, and on which he (Mr. Whiteside) had declined to sit, as he disapproved of a Commission consisting of fifteen or seventeen Members. It had reported that the business of the Incumbered Estates Court should be put into Chancery. A Committee was subse-
 566
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, that the first question to be considered before discussing the propriety of spending £12,600, was
 558
 ADMIRAL ERSKINE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, If it is intended that the Captains placed on the Reserved List (F.G.) by the Orders in Council of 1851, 1856, and 1860, who do not now acquire an increase of half-pay by seniority, and to some of whom only Commanders' General Hospital Pensions have been awarded, although they hold Captains' Commissions, shall benefit by the additional Pay or Pensions which the Admiralty will now have to bestow?
 MR. GEORGE  said, he rose, not for the purpose of prolonging the discussion, but to correct his right hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Lawson) on a matter of fact. From what his right hon. Friend had stated, he should be disposed to infer that he had not read his own Bill. From the very clauses of the Bill it would be seen that it was proposed to appoint a Vice Chancellor with one chief clerk and two junior clerks; in addition to that, the Master of the Rolls was to have power to appoint a chief clerk and two junior clerks, and there was further power given for the appointment of a chief clerk and two junior clerks for the Lord
 568
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary of the Treasury to the fact that the Annual Finance Accounts state neither the Total Capital Amount of the National Debt, nor the Total Annual Interest of the entire Debt, nor the Total Amount of Debt discharged under the heads of Exchequer Bills, Exchequer Bonds, and Terminable Annuities, and to ask him whether he would direct the preparation of such information and its publication with the future Annual Finance Accounts? The fact was that the Annual Finance Accounts as they were at present kept were neither ample nor clear. The House might fairly expect to find clearly stated in them the amount of the National Debt and the interest of that debt, and to be told at the end of every year how much of the debt had been discharged or by how much it had been increased. Every one, however, was obliged to make his own calculations on these points. In one paper the amount of the funded debt was given, and in a subsequent paper the unfunded debt, and these two added together made a total of £785,000,000. This amount, however, did not accurately represent the entire debt, which was £808,000,000. The reason why the residue was not stated was that the accounts did not make a computation of the amount of capital debt owing in respect of terminable annuities amounting to £22,500,000. On the other hand, the
 524
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that if the firm had been damaged it was from the mode in which the inquiry had been carried on. He was of opinion that some material alteration should be made in the present mode of conducting inquiries of this description. The tribunal by which such
 549 London
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whe-
 488
 MR. SAMUDA  said, that the hon. Member had misunderstood him. He had expressed on this subject the same opinion
 553
 MR. SAMUDA  said, he wished to deprecate the increased severity in legislation which some right hon. Gentlemen would found upon the disasters which befell the
 547 London. London 548 London
 MR. BIDDULPH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in pursuance of a recent letter addressed to the Clerks of Roads out of debt, or nearly so, the appointments held under such Trusts are to be abolished without any provision being made for compensation, or whether the same course will be pursued as was adopted in the case of the Metropolis Trusts, disturnpiked by the Act 26 & 27 Vict. c. 78?
 MR. LONG  said, he must protest against the obvious fallacy involved in attributing to his hon. Friend the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) the opinion that the supremacy depended upon the oath. The hon. and learned Gentleman must know well that it was the recognition of the supremacy, and not the supremacy itself, which depended upon the oath. This his hon. Friend sought, and rightly sought, to keep upon the statute-book as a protest against assumptions made in times long gone by, and never yet openly abandoned. He (Mr. Long) most unwillingly accepted the conclusion to which the House had arrived, and thought the oath should stand so long as the pretensions of Rome remained.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, he had referred to the Report of the Commission upon which the Attorney General for Ireland (Mr. Lawson) had relied as conclusive, and he there found that it was appointed in the first place to inquire into certain matters "with a view to reduce the cost of suitors and the expenditure of public money." The second branch of the inquiry was with a view "to assimilate as far as practicable the administration of justice in England and Ireland." Now, he could state without fear of contradiction that the Commission overlooked altogether the first branch—namely, the question with reference to the cost of suitors and the expenditure of the public money, and confined themselves merely to the second branch—namely, the assimilation of the practice and procedure in both countries, because the Commissioners themselves stated that when they had inquired into the latter point they thought it right to make their Report. The Report, then, on which the Attorney General for Ireland so much relied was utterly valueless as regarded the important points of the cost to the suitors and the expenditure of the public money.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : It would have been our wish that Mr. O'Dowd should have taken the course I have mentioned, and, as I am informed, he did take it. Having the management of the case it was his duty to call every witness suggested to him as likely to give useful information, and put every question, from whatever side it proceeded, calculated to lead to a correct conclusion. Mr. O'Dowd informs me that he took that course.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : There can be no doubt, Sir, that the fate of the  London. 538 London? London 539 540
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : The right hon. Gentleman referred to the character of the witnesses, and observed that persons were called who had previously committed themselves by opinions on the ship. That is true; but whom can you call, if you want to know anything of the character and equipment of a ship, but those who have had opportunities of becoming acquainted with the vessel? It was impossible to avoid calling the witnesses who were examined, but we felt so strongly that some other persons should be called who might give useful evidence that we had certain witnesses examined who might be called "experts," and who were without any interest in the matter. We did our utmost, as far as the case permitted, to call independent witnesses, and I quite agree with the right hon. Gentleman that it was an unsatisfactory thing that we could not by any means get that amount of valuable independent testimony which we could have desired to obtain. We got some, I however, and Mr. Wilson was called by the direct suggestion of the Board of Trade. I do not demur to the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman as to the necessity of calling witnesses uninterested and independent, but in cases of this kind there is a difficulty in finding persons who can give useful information, and who, at the same time, I have not known beforehand anything of the ships respecting which an inquiry is instituted. The right hon. Gentleman has asked whether I am satisfied with the law I as it stands in respect to the mode in which these inquiries are conducted. I say that I am not quite satisfied. The system is will susceptible of improvements, but I will not pledge myself hastily to bring in a measure for effecting a change. The desirability of making a change in the mode in which these inquiries are conducted has been under the consideration of the Government, and I have no doubt that before long we shall be able to suggest to Parliament some improvement in the system. Generally speaking, we have been attacked for conducting those inquiries with too much stringency. It has been complained that we have inculpated persons improperly, and that we have not sufficiently allowed for what are called the unavoidable dangers of the sea. The right hon. Gentleman now takes up the matter in a totally different spirit, and he wishes the inquiries to be more searching than they have been.
 542 London Alma, Duncan Dunbar, London, 543 London,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he thought it would be more likely that all the railway trucks throughout the country would be disinfected if the task of disinfection were committed to the railway companies themselves under a penalty, and with a power to anybody to inform against them if they did not discharge their duty properly, than if reliance were to be placed on the certificates of a staff of inspectors who must, under all the circumstances of the ease, be quite unable within the given time to do that which would be required of them. It would be quite impossible to collect all those trucks together and have them in spected within a few days, so as to have reliable certificates that every railway truck in the kingdom had been disinfected. The Board of Trade could not undertake such a duty unless they had a perfect army of inspectors; and before the necessary appointments were made and the inspectors received their instructions the time would have arrived when the trucks might come into use.
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, he believed that the tribunal was an unsatisfactory one, but he did not concur in the reasons which had been given for this conclusion. The only parties who were not represented upon inquiries of this kind were the owners. The public were represented by the counsel for the Board of Trade, the relatives of the sufferers might have counsel, but the owners had no  locus standi 550
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that no promise had been given that a Bill would be introduced. It was stated that, if the powers conferred on the Privy Council under the existing law were not found to be sufficient, the Government would deem it to be their duty to ask Parliament for further powers. It might be necessary to do so, and the question was now under the consideration of the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he could not tell whether the Order the hon. Gentleman had read was authentic or not, because he had only read a portion of it. The Bill of the hon. Gentleman imposed upon the Government the obligation of cleansing all railway trucks throughout the country, while the expense of the process was to fall upon the public. He, therefore, objected to the clause containing this provision, thinking that the responsibility of properly cleansing and disinfecting the trucks should rest with the railway companies, who ought also to bear the expense. He undertook to bring up a clause to that effect, and it was inserted. Another objection which he made to the clause of the hon. Member was this—that it would be of little use to secure cleansing the trucks before the 24th of March, if after that time no precautions were to be taken for the continued cleansing of trucks, and he, therefore, proposed that the obligation should be thrown on the companies of cleansing and disinfecting on every occasion on which they carried cattle. The obligation of disinfecting the trucks was now imposed upon the railway companies, who would have to pay the whole of the expense incurred by the proceeding, and the order of Saturday not only provided for the cleansing and disinfecting of cattle trucks during the present week, but that they should be thoroughly purified every time they were used. When the Bill came down from the House of Lords the Government had come to the conclusion that it would be impossible to provide the machinery by means of which the railway trucks throughout the country could be inspected by the officers of the Board of Trade before the 25th of March. It had been suggested that the only mode of inspecting those trucks would be to order them to be brought to some central station, but to take that course would, he thought, be to interfere materially with ordinary railway traffic. It had been thought right, under the circumstances, to place the immediate and the future cleansing of the trucks upon the same footing, giving powers of inspection so that it could be ascertained whether the Order had been carried out, the railway companies being rendered
 495
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he had to complain of what he felt to be a hardship endured, by certain non-commissioned officers when serving in India. The House might not be aware that when a soldier in India was appointed a non commissioned officer he did not begin to receive the pay which his rank entitled him to until the official return of his predecessor's discharge had reached India from England. He was thus for three or four months, or sometimes longer, doing the duty of sergeant without receiving the pay. This could not be the intention of the House, and he therefore asked the noble Lord the Minister for War to give the matter his attention. No class of men in the army were more entitled to the consideration of the House than the non-commissioned officers, and he thought their case one of peculiar hardship.
 SIR HENRY HOARE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, whose answer many hon. Members awaited with intense anxiety—["Order, order!"]—Whether, in the event of the Bill for the Representation of the People passing into Law, it is his intention to bring forward a measure for the Redistribution of Seats and the settlement of Borough Boundaries early in the ensuing Session?
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  said, he wished to ask, whether the traffic of live cattle by rail would be resumed after the 25th of March?
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he concurred with his noble Friend in thinking that the country had had enough, and more than enough, of the trifling and temporizing of the Government on the question of the cattle plague. On a former occasion, when his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) withdrew his Bill, a promise was made by the Under Secretary for the Home Department that a Bill would be brought in by the Government on the subject, and he should like to know whether they proposed to act upon that promise.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true that a temporary addition has been made to the length of the funnel of the  Bellerophon 491
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that just before his retirement from office he had drawn up a plan based on the principle of retirement by age, and he had never changed his opinion that the good of the service required the adoption of that principle. Extremely unwilling, therefore, to offer opposition to any plan brought forward with that end in view, he yet saw serious objections to the scheme proposed by the Government. He felt it was open to serious objection on account of its requiring vice and rear admirals to retire at an earlier age than seventy, which was the lowest he had proposed. How was it to be ascertained, and who was to be the judge, whether an admiral was physically unfit for service? By his plan all flag-officers were to retire at seventy, and he could not understand why a rear admiral should retire at sixty-five and a full admiral at seventy. He would refer to a case with which the noble Lord must be familiar—that of Rear Admiral Hall, of the  Nemesis,
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he was entirely in the hands of the House. With reference to the question of the hon. Gentleman the Member for the Tower Hamlets, he was not aware that a statement of the facts connected with the loss of this vessel constituted such an attack as was suggested by the hon. and learned Gentleman. He had given the usual notice required, and having in that notice stated his intention of calling the attention of the House to the manner in which the inquiry into the loss of the  London
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  rose to reply to the question.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that a great many questions which were suggested were never put, and others were greatly altered.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I rise, Sir, pursuant to the notice I have given, to call attention to that melancholy event, the loss of the  London, London; 525 Amalia, London, Amalia London 526 London. Amalia London, 527 "Mr. Traill, therefore, thought that the inquiry into the loss of the  London Hansard, 528 "If the Board of Trade so directs, he shall apply to any two justices, or to a stipendiary magistrate, to hear the case; and such justices or magistrate shall thereupon proceed to hear and try the same, and shall for that purpose, as far as relates to the summoning of parties, compelling the attendance of witnesses, and the regulation of the proceedings, have the same powers as if the same were a proceeding relating to an offence or cause of complaint upon which they or he have power to make a summary conviction or order, or as near thereto as circumstances permit; and it shall be the duty of such officer or person as aforesaid to superintend the management of the case, and to render such assistance to the said justices or magistrate as is in his power, &c. … Such justices or magistrate may require any master whose conduct is called in question, or appears likely to be called in question, to deliver the certificate, and he shall hold the certificate so delivered until the conclusion." London 529 "Whenever any loss, abandonment of, or serious damage to a ship, or any casualty causing loss of life, shall have happened as therein mentioned, to inquire into the cause of such loss, &c." "In the former of these two in instigations there is something to be determined—namely, 'the cancelling or suspending the certificate;' and in this case, therefore, the Act has provided for an appearance by counsel, by directing that the master or mate 'shall have full opportunity of making his defence in person or otherwise.' In the latter investigation, on the other hand, there being nothing to determine, and no person on his defence, no such provision is made." London. 530 "We were most anxious to obtain every information, and secured the services of able counsel and a shorthand writer to report  verbatim London, "I think that we, the relatives of the lost, regarded collectively in the eyes of the Court as we are one in the sorrow of our bereavement, should be allowed the privilege of cross-examining such a succession of witnesses as have been adduced in the present case, who for days together consisted of either crew and dependents of the owners, or persons directly interested in proving that no fault could attach to the ship or her fittings. See how the aspect of things changed when the only independent testimony was adduced—namely, the three surviving passengers; they were strong in denunciation of the behaviour of the vessel, and all were men accustomed to the sea; one had been by profession a sailor. I never heard anything so unsatisfactory as the way their evidence was taken; it was removed from the hands of Mr. O'Dowd to those of Mr. Traill, and if I had not myself pressed, after the examination I was concluded, that certain questions should be put, they would not have been asked, though the magistrate had the brief under his own eyes containing statements derogatory to the vessel." 531 bonâ fide London London "A sailor's eye can always detect whether a ship looks too deep in the water or not; and, notwithstanding the evidence adduced, and the endeavour to prove that everything was done for the safety of the passengers that human foresight could suggest, I maintain that the attention of spectators on the Hoe was called to the ship from her deepness of immersion while she lay at anchor in the Sound, and comments were freely passed upon the circumstance; and yet, anticipating bad weather, she is permitted to depart with fifty tons of coal on her upper deck, with her topgallant and royal masts on end, and topgallant yards across; the imprudence of which was subsequently shown in evidence by the coals choking the scuppers and the spars being carried away." "The shortcomings of some and the cupidity of others had far more to do with the loss of the ship than the elements." "The truth is, that the interests of the owners are paramount to every other consideration, and to this, and making a swift passage, the efforts of the captain are directed. It must be now obvious to all that such ships as the  London, 532 London "Mr. Thomas called at chambers yesterday to ask me to send you in writing an exact account of what occurred at Greenwich when I proposed any question in cross-examination of the witnesses in the  London 533 London 534 London London; "Ship too heavily laden for its size and too crank; windows stove in, water coming in everywhere; storm not too violent for a ship in good condition." Rodney, London: "Dimensions of the  Rodney London. London 535 Rodney. 536 bonâ fide, bonâ fide, London 537
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, that he did not mean to make any complaint of Mr. O'Dowd. What he had said was that questions which were suggested were never put, and that others were completely
 541
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  said, he wished an answer to be given to the question, whether the local authorities had power to inspect trucks in railway stations?
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Works, Whether the Board will take possession of the land required for the New Law Courts during the present year; whether it will be taken possession of gradually; and, if so, what portion will be taken during the year?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that the intention of the Government was stated with perfect accuracy in the Bill—that £6 was the sum at which the intended occupation value was to stand.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, I understand it to be the wish of my hon. Friend that I should give some explanation of the answer which I made to him the other evening in replying to some observations of his as to certain alleged grievances of the officers of the Military Store Department. I find upon reference to the report in  The Times, 579
 MR. BARING , in reply, said, that great complaints had been made in different parts of the metropolis by the contractors for the removal of refuse that they were unable to remove it in consequence of the orders, or rather the notices, published by various local authorities. The Secretary of State for the Home Department yesterday received a letter from the Board of Works, Holborn district, containing the Report of the Medical Officer of that district, in which he stated that in consequence of the interpretation put by the contractors upon those notices they were unable to remove any of the stable manure, and that even, which was hardly credible, they declined to remove the street sweepings of the metropolis because there possibly might be some horse dung mixed with it. The difficulty appeared to have arisen principally from a misconception of the effect of the notices issued by the local authorities. He had obtained the notices of those authorities of which complaint was made, and found that their terms by no means prohibited the introduction into their district of any such articles as were not likely to propagate infection. It seemed to be impossible that any local authority could regard the introduction of all refuse from the metropolis as likely to propagate the cattle plague, when the week before last there were only fourteen cases of the cattle plague in the whole district of the Metropolitan Board of Works, and last week there were only twelve. In one instance, however—that of the county of Kent, the local authorities had issued notices which were decidedly beyond the powers given them by the Orders in Council—namely, by absolutely prohibiting the introduction of all dang from the metropolis into their county. By no construction of the Orders
 578
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am afraid, Sir, that I can give no more definite answer to this Question than to refer to the words which I used in my opening statement on the subject of the Electoral Franchise. I then meant to state this on the part of the Government, that the state of the case was certainly very urgent, that we had no reason to believe that the present provisions of the law had
 580
 MR. BARING  said, the real question before the House was not whether a Committee should be appointed to investigate the particular cases to which attention had been called, but to decide whether a clause should be introduced into the Bill now in progress in another place which should allow an appeal to a Court of Law against the bye-laws made by the Commissioners under the Salmon Fishery (Scotland) Act of 1862. It appeared to the Government that that was not a proper subject for a Select Committee. The hon. Gentleman opposite would have ample opportunity of raising that point when the Bill came down for consideration, and they, therefore, could not agree to the Motion. He hoped for himself that the House would not adopt the clause which the hon. Gentleman had suggested, for he believed that the legislation of the last few years on salmon fisheries had acted very beneficially, and he trusted that the principles on which it was based would not be departed from. Few persons acquainted with the subject would, he thought, agree with the remarks of the hon. Gentleman on Mr. Ffennell, who had conferred the greatest benefits on the salmon fisheries of the three kingdoms. It must be satisfactory to the House to find that out of 102 bye-laws which had been framed by the Commissioners there were only two which the hon. Member was able to challenge.
 MR. ESMONDE  said, that great injustice had been committed by the Salmon Commission in Ireland, where charters that had existed for centuries had been ruthlessly swept away. Indeed, the legal member of the Commission, Mr. O'Connor Maurice, gave in his resignation rather than be a party to such proceedings. The Act itself was an injustice, and had been denounced by Lord Westbury, then Lord Chancellor. He should vote for the Motion as a stepping-stone towards a similar inquiry for Ireland, and could relate several instances, if necessary, of the hardships which had been inflicted by the Commission in that country.
 MR. BASS  said, that so far was Mr. Ffennell from always leaning to the anglers, that he was sometimes accused of being rather too tender to the assumed rights and usurped powers of the people at the mouths of rivers. If the House gave the power of appeal there would be continual contentions. The right of appeal given by the Irish Act was very partial in its operation.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise, Sir, for two reasons—first, because the Motion of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) appears to meet with the general approval of the House; secondly, to tender my thanks to my hon. Friend for having taken upon himself the task of raising this subject. I will not say one word after what has been so fully and ably stated by my hon. Friend upon the possible mischiefs of this practice of private Members bringing forward measures affecting the public revenue. It is a very young practice, but one which is sure to grow, as all evil things do grow in this evil world. I will just point out, in case it should he apprehended that the House is parting with any portion of its valuable liberty, that that is really not the case. The House will continue to have full authority to pronounce an opinion upon every
 598
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped that if this Amendment were agreed to it would
 602
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just resumed his seat had appealed to him to prolong the debate; but the hon. Mem-
 640
 MR. KER  said, he did not feel inclined to allow the proposed alteration to be made without entering his protest against it. The Bill was not exactly what the hon. Baronet had described, for, as he understood it, the words would apply to the holders of any civil office, and therefore to the Lord Chancellors of England and of Ireland. If the Lord Chancellor was to be freed from the obligation of taking the oath, he did not know what was to be come of the Settlement of this country. He strongly objected to the Resolution, which, if carried, would affect the existing Constitution, inasmuch as it would enable Roman Catholics to hold offices from which they were excluded by the existing law.
 MR. KER  said, he wished to ask, whether he was to understand that it was the intention of the Government to take up the subject?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought he might venture to say that the Government would probably introduce some measure for a general revision of those oaths.
 MR. KER  said, that would be the more satisfactory course. Those oaths, which were of a very grave nature, should not be altered except upon the responsibility of Government.
 MR. KER  said, he certainly had not read the Bill. He only judged of its nature by the terms of the Resolution.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Government had no intention to offer any resistance to the proposal, He was bound, however, to say for himself and his right hon. Friend the Home Secretary that they would have preferred that this matter should be dealt with by a general Act relating to the present state of oaths and declarations, which, as the House would see from papers recently laid before it, involved a great deal of anomaly and of useless and cumbrous phraseology. It I would have been better that the whole subject should have been handled by a competent body which, while dealing with one part of the question, would have the other parts in view. However, his hon. Friend was anxious to remove words which
 643
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the Government, in common with the House and the country, deeply regretted the unfortunate occurrences narrated. Undoubtedly, both the House and the country, and more especially the friends of those who had perished, had the fullest right to demand investigation and inquiry as to whether the causes of that mortality resulted from the negligence of the Government or of the commanders of the troops. While acknowledging the candid and impartial manner in which the subject had been brought before the House, he must state that he should be prepared to deny that these unfortunate events had occurred through the shortcomings of the Government. It might be said that the matter might have been disposed of in the House, and that the question of the responsibility of the Government, or of individuals, might have been decided there, but there were circumstances which rendered it more advisable that the subject should be investigated in a Committee. In a discussion in that House when the conduct of individuals was called in question, assertions were often made and rumours were referred to which it might be impossible at the moment to deny, but which on further investigation might prove to be perfectly groundless, and such rumours and charges could be more properly met in a Committee than in a debate. So far as he was aware, every one connected with the Government and with the
 648 "With regard to the difficulty which you anticipate in providing sufficient accommodation for a second regiment at Hong Kong and Kowloon, I am to acquaint you that the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, have decided on withdrawing the Royal Marines now serving in Japan. There will, therefore, be no objection to your sending the 2nd battalion 11th Foot, on its arrival from the Cape, or such portion of it as you may be unable to accommodate at Hong Kong, to Yokohama, where the climate is better suited than that of China to the European constitution." 649
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that the hole which had let in these demands upon the public money was due to some ingenious Member of the other House. The proposition of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, if it were adopted, would administer a considerable cheek to a very bad practice. With respect to Addresses to the Crown relating to grants of money, he would suggest that the proceeding should not be completed in one day, and thus he thought the object of the right hon. Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole) would be attained. A great difficulty arose from the wording of the Standing Order; for, after looking at it, and considering what the House was in the habit of doing, it was not easy to see how the Order and the procedure of the House harmonized. As some doubt as to the Standing Orders affecting grants of money
 603
 MR. COWPER  said, that he rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill to make better provision for the improvement of commons in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, and the protection thereof from nuisances. One of the fortunate circumstances in connection with the position of London was, that this capital was surrounded by a circle of fresh and breezy commons, where furze and broom flourished, and possessing the natural and unpretending charm of land never brought into cultivation. Within a radius of fifteen miles of London there were 180 commons, containing in the whole 10,500 acres. Prom the earliest times some of these had been village greens, used for the recreation and amusement of the people, and though the law did not acknowledge any right of the public in these commons unless the right had been restricted to some particular body, long usage had enabled the people to enjoy those commons without the risk of being dealt with as trespassers. No institution handed down to us from our Saxon forefathers had contributed more to the happiness of the people. The maintenance of those open spaces was important for the inhabitants of the metropolis at large, and they were essential to the success of the Volunteer movement by
 624 625 626 627 628 629
 MR. COWPER  said, that Epping Forest did not come under that Bill. The Commissioners of Woods and Forests conceived that by their Act of Parliament they were bound as trustees to administer the property intrusted to them with a view to obtain as much money as they could from it. He hoped the question would shortly be dealt with in a satisfactory manner. The same remark applied to the rights of the Crown over the waste of Blackheath, from which the Commissioners obtained the £56 that had been referred to. However unfortunate it might be that a common should be spoiled for the sake of such a small sum, yet, entertaining that view of their legal duty, the Commissioners of Woods and Forests thought they must do so. The hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) had attributed to him some very erroneous views of the law of the question in relation to these commons; but he, had never doubted that the lord of the manor had the soil of the waste, subject to the rights of the commoners over the surface. The public had legally no rights. If these commons were to be im-
 639
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that much would depend upon the progress of the negotiations. For a portion of the property those negotiations were nearly concluded, but possession of the land could hardly be
 577
 MR. COWPER  said, they were not, but only to be confined to the metropolitan area.
 MR. WILBRAHAM EGERTON  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it is true that lately, at St. Pancras Workhouse Infirmary, a child was laid out for burial some hours be fore its death; and, if so, whether any in quest has been held or inquiry instituted by the Poor Law Board into the circumstances of such a case?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to move an Address to Her Majesty, humbly praying Her Majesty to cause to be laid upon the table of the House any Papers with regard to the Appropriation Bill in Victoria, in addition to those which had been already produced. If the Secretary for the Colonies should think it worth while to accept from him any praise, he would with all his heart award the right hon. Gentleman the highest encomiums for the course which he had taken in this matter, and for the two most excellent despatches which adorned the book he held in his hand. The Governor (Sir Charles Darling), although open to the severest censure, had been recalled; he was now  functus officio. "The Legislative Council of this colony is an elective body composed of thirty members, and is elected by persons possessed of a certain freehold or leasehold qualification, by graduates of any recognized University, by members of the learned professions, by ministers of religion, and by officers of your Majesty's military or naval service. These qualifications on the part of the electors have rendered the Council a fair reflex of the property, education, and intelligence of the community." 605 "If I may judge by the declarations of opinion which have proceeded from the candidates for election to both Houses, and the results of the elections, I should come to the conclusion that what is designated 'protection to native industry, by means of levying import duties upon articles which may possibly be grown or manufactured in the colony, instead of upon those which must be derived from extra-colonial sources, together with a decrease of qualification and duration of period of service of the members of Council, are the points upon which the contests, especially at the more recent elections, have turned; and that the popular opinion has been decidedly in favour of those views." 606 "An announcement made by the Ministers in the Assembly that it is their present intention to embody the new tariff which has recently passed that House in the principal Appropriation Act of the Session, with a view of deterring the Council from rejecting the tariff, which there is much reason to believe will meet with but little favour in that branch of the Legislature," "I acquainted you with the avowed intention of the Assembly to unite the tariff with the Appropriation Bill, mentioning that the proposed combination was considered to be justified by the precedent of the Paper Duties Repeal Bill; and adding that this was done with the object of deterring the Council from rejecting the tariff." "Is justified, generally, upon the precedent of Mr. Gladstone's proceedings in the case of the Paper Duties Repeal Act, and a considerable majority of the Assembly appear determined to support them in that policy which is, in effect, their own," "Although I am equally aware of the cogency of the motives which induced you to assent to the Import Duties Bill, notwithstanding the clauses of appropriation attached to it, I have to instruct you
 607 "That the annexing any clause or clauses to a Bill of aid or supply, the matter of which is foreign to and different from the said Bill of aid or supply, is unparliamentary, and tends to the destruction of the constitution of the Government." 608 "Sums have been obtained from time to time from the London Chartered Bank of Australia; judgment has been confessed by a law officer of the Crown; the necessary certificate given by the Audit Commissioners; and the amount owing to the Bank repaid by issues from the Public Ac-
 609 "The effect was practically to transfer the public money out of the 'public account,' from which the Bank could not ordinarily issue it without the Audit Commissioners' certificate, to another account, entirely under the control of the Government.…By such a mode of procedure the Governor and his Government, with the co-operation of a local Bank, may at any time withdraw any amount of Public Funds from the 'Public Account' to which it is consigned by law, and place it at their own command, relieved from all those checks with which the Legislature has surrounded it," "This House hereby declares its determination not to entertain any further or other Bill for the appropriation of supplies for the service of the year 1865, until the rightful control of this House over taxation and supply shall have been acknowledged by the adoption by the Legislative Council (or Upper Chamber) of the tariff approved by this House and contained in a schedule to the said first-mentioned Bill." 610 611 "I think there is a spirit aroused just now which will scarcely be satisfied with anything short of a reform of the constitution of the Council (or Upper Chamber)." "That while this meeting is willing to accord to the Legislative Council the privileges of a branch of the Legislature, it is still of opinion that, looking at the irresponsible power invested in that body by the Constitution Act, and their obstruction to the popular wishes of the country, considers it advisable that an urgent, loyal, and emphatic appeal be made, without delay, to the Imperial Parliament for such an alteration of the constitution of the Upper House as will render it in some degree amenable to the popular will and control." Melbourne Argus, Argus "He did not care  that "If the House of Commons resolved that a given duty should be imposed upon goods before they were entered for home consumption, it was fairly to be presumed (and the practice proceeded
 612 "The plea that taxes are levied in this country on a vote of the House of Commons before they are imposed by law is manifestly irrelevant. Such taxes are so levied because it is not doubted that the Bill imposing them as from the date of the resolution of the House of Commons on which the Bill is founded (and after which only they are levied) will become law, by the concurrence of the two other branches of the Legislature." "I am glad to see from the home papers that the Liberals have obtained again a majority, although I have considerably altered my opinion in regard to the suffrage, which here is extended to manhood, and you will observe from the papers sent you into what this country is drifting by manhood suffrage.…I am sorry to think we do not have such an intellectual array of able politicians as we have at home. The most of our public men are men of no education, who pander to the most depraved tastes.…I can assure you that if you were here to see the evil effects of manhood suffrage, and also to think of the evils it has caused in America, it would make one pause before thinking of an extension of the franchise at home." 613 Melbourne Argus "The petition of the Council to the Queen will speak for itself, and will fully assert the intellectual and moral fitness of the Council (or Upper Chamber) to act as a bulwark against the attempts of those who openly avow their desire to substitute for the two Chambers at present existing one which would be an immediate reflex of popular clamour and caprice, and to which it would be impossible for a Governor, or for the wiser classes of the community, to oppose an effectual resistance." 614
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he had deferred his Motion until the production of papers on the question, and it was by no means his object to criticize the recall of Sir Charles Darling, with whom the Government had, he believed, dealt justly, or to constitute that House a court of appeal on colonial subjects. His thoughts were entirely confined to this country, and his motive had been to draw from those occurrences a lesson for our own guidance, remembering that we could only profit either from events which had happened at former periods, or from those now taking place in other parts of the world. After the statement of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) with respect to the papers, he begged permission to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he did not think it was necessary to submit the Standing Orders to the investigation of a Committee. He did not intend to touch the Standing Order 320—regulating the presentation of petitions—which had been referred to in the course of the discussion. What he proposed was to take the Standing Order affecting grants of money as it was, enlarge the Bills and Motions which were prospective in their charges, and place them on precisely the same footing as if for a present charge. The change was simple, and could easily be effected. With respect to the suggestion made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie), the objection to it was that, as he himself and other hon. Members who took an interest in the question were now engaged on other Committees, it would be impossible for them for a long time to undertake to serve on a Select Committee to consider the Standing Orders. He hoped, therefore, his right hon. Friend would not press his suggestion.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he proposed to the House to take into consideration two of their Standing Orders, with the view of introducing certain Amendments into them. One of the Amendments of the Standing Orders would be a necessary consequence of the adoption of the other, and he should therefore direct the special attention of the House to the first of his Resolutions. He had always understood that one of the fundamental principles of
 592 "That this House will receive no petition for any sum of money relating to the public service but what is recommended by the Crown." 593 "That this House will receive no petition for any sum of money relating to the public service or proceed upon any Motion for granting any money but what is recommended from the Crown." 594 595 596 597 "That the Standing Order of the 25th of June, 1852, relating to applications for public money, be repealed, and, in lieu thereof, that this House will receive no Petition for any sum relating to Public Service, or proceed upon any Motion for a grant or charge upon the Public Revenue, whether payable out of the Consolidated Fund or out of monies to be provided by Parliament, unless recommended from the Crown; that the Standing Order of the 25th of June, 1852, relating to public aids or charge upon the people, be repealed, and, in lieu thereof, that if any Motion be made in the House for any aid, grant, or charge upon the Public Revenue, whether payable out of the Consolidated Fund or out of monies to be provided by Parliament, or for any charge upon the people, the consideration and debate thereof shall not be presently entered upon, but shall be adjourned till such further day as the House shall think fit to appoint, and then it shall be referred to a Committee of the whole House before any Resolution or Vote of the House do pass therein."
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to know whether, if on a large farm the disease should make its appearance, the inspector would have the power of ordering any number of sheep to be slaughtered?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What are the rules to be applied in Scotland with respect to the slaughter of infected sheep? It was stated the other night that the same rule
 582
 MR. LEFROY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the defects in the present Law of Charities in Ireland have been brought under the notice of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, or of the Irish Government; and, if so, whether it is the intention of Government to introduce a Bill to remedy those defects during the present Session?
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he thought the House were much indebted to the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu) for bringing forward a question of so much interest and usefulness, and in so able a manner. It would have been very unwise for them to pass over without notice events of such importance as those which had just occurred in the colony of Victoria. Whether the additional papers for which the noble Lord had moved would throw any additional light on the subject they could not tell, but, as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cardwell) had wisely remarked, they had not the Governor's case fully before them at present. Quite sufficient information, however, was in their possession to indicate the general character of the events which had taken place, and to render the discussion not a premature but a timely one. In fact, had the noble Lord's object been simply to call the attention of the House to what had occurred in the colony, it would, in his opinion, have required no apology, for it seemed to him that the House ought from
 621 622 623
 MR. CUMMING - BRUCE  said, he supported the Motion. The fisheries had become more and more deteriorated. In the Findhorn, he recollected when fish were taken of 20lb., 25lb., and 30 lb. Now the average was 7 lb. or 81b. Notwithstanding that the Commissioners knew of all these allegations, they took steps which had had the effect of reducing the produce 75 per cent. Besides this, the powers of the Commissioners to do what they had done had been challenged; and, according to the Lord Advocate, not without good reason. He thought it was very desirable, before discussing the Bill which had been referred to a Select Committee in the House of Lords, to ascertain what had been the real working and operation of the law in Scotland, and he hoped, therefore, that the Motion of his hon. Friend would be agreed to.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, that he would not offer any opposition to the production of the Returns asked for, but that he did not think it would be possible to obtain the information.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that the metropolitan inspector had been directed to inquire into the matter referred to, and that in consequence of seeing grounds for believing the truth of the statement, the inspector had made arrangements for an inquest to-night, and would himself institute an inquiry to-morrow.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to move for Returns of the total number of Voters in every Borough and City in England and Wales in which there was a contest at the last Election, the number of Voters of the working classes in such Boroughs, the number of Voters of all the other classes collectively, the number of Voters who voted for any Candidate at the last Election, and of the number of Voters who did not vote at all in such Boroughs?
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he thought that a suitable opportunity of noticing the highly official view put for-ward by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) as to the relation between the property of the Crown and the rights of the people. That was not the first time when the two things had been placed in violent opposition to each other in that House. The legal representative of the Crown was supported in exacting the very last farthing in respect to every right possibly appertaining to the Crown, to the utter disregard of the wishes or the enjoyments of the people. The property in the Crown was merely nominal. For all practical purposes it was completely alienated from the Crown, and the office of Woods and Forests was put into such a position as compelled it to act in direct hostility to the wishes of the people. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he brought forward the Budget, and on similar occasions, would appeal to the feelings of the House in favour of the people, while the Government would exact the last farthing in respect of the Crown property, with entire disregard of the rights and interests of the people. Different Departments of the Government were thus opposed. This, he contended, was an anomaly which ought not to exist.
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the transit of cattle by Railway will be prohibited after the 24th of March?
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, this is a Motion for papers; and my reply with regard to them is, that an answer has been received from the Governor of Victoria to the first despatch among these papers, and that j answer is in preparation to be laid on the table of the House. With regard to the Motion of the noble Lord (Lord Robert Montagu), I will say if it had been any criticism on the action of the executive Government at home, it would have been my duty to enter fully into the discussion of the course which has been pursued; but so far as I am concerned nothing could be
 618 619 620 Constitutional History of England, "The transition from a state of control and pupilage to that of unrestrained freedom seems to have been too precipitate. Society, particularly in Australia, had scarcely bad time to prepare itself for the successful trial of so free a representation. The settlers of a new country were suddenly intrusted with uncontrolled power, before education, property, traditions, and usage had given stability to public opinion. Nor were they trained to freedom, like their English brethren, by many ennobling struggles and the patient exercise of public virtues.…Hitherto there have been many failures and discouragements in the experiment of colonial democracy. Yet the political future of these thriving communities affords far more grounds for hope than for despondency."
 MR. ELLICE  said, he wished, before the Government gave any answer to the appeal of his hon. Friend, to say a very few words, The arguments which his hon. Friend had used were the same that had been urged in opposition to the passing of the present Act and the appointment of the Commissioners. They were also used to prevent legislation in the same direction in the case of Ireland. He might be allowed to say that the Commissioner whose name had been alluded to by his hon. Friend was a gentleman of very great experience on the subject of fisheries, and the manner in which he had dealt with it under several Acts had given general satisfaction. The recent Act, so far from causing dissatisfaction in Scotland, had worked exceedingly well. It was quite true that, in the case represented by his hon. Friend, in the Ness and Beauly River, certain rights that were infringements on the old public right of fishing charters had been extended most preju-
 588
 MR. DOULTON  said, he had listened with satisfaction to the observations that had fallen from the hon. Member who had just spoken, and ventured to say that this Bill would not answer the purpose which all admitted should be kept in view. He had heard with pleasure at the commencement of the Session, that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for the better preservation of the commons and open spaces around London, but as far as he could gather from the observations of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) the Bill now introduced would not add one tittle to the protection of those places. If the Bill were to become law, it contained nothing to prevent the shameless inclosures that were taking place on every side of the metropolis. The three most important commons around London were Epping Forest, Hampstead Heath, and Wimbledon Common, and he asked the right hon. Gentleman what there was in the Bill now under discussion that would prevent their being enclosed? In the case of Wimbledon Common, of which Earl Spencer was the lord of the manor, which of the provisions of the Bill would prevent the noble Lord from coming to an arrangement with the copyholders and freeholders of the manor for its inclosure? There would be no necessity in the case of either of those commons for the lord of the manor, if he came to an arrangement with the copyholders and freeholders, to apply to the Inclosure Commissioners now proposed to be appointed for the special protection of the public. A strong power should be created to deal with this matter, not by confiscating the rights of the lords of manors, hut by purchasing those rights on behalf of the public. One great defect in the Bill was, that it did not even provide for raising the necessary funds for defraying the expenses incurred in preserving the commons from nuisances. The right hon. Gentleman, indeed, said that the object of the Bill was to bring into action the local machinery, but he did not think that the inclosure of commons could be prevented by local efforts. They ought to buy up the rights which existed, because they could not with more justice confiscate those rights than they could appropriate any other kind of private property. Those rights, though not of great value, were certainly worth something, and it would be the duty of anybody constituted for that purpose to buy them up and dedicate them to the service of the public. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down
 632
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he wished to ask if the powers of the Commissioners were to extend to all large towns?
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the Bill, but he felt called upon to remark that the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) had by his remarks confirmed him in an opinion which he had formed when sitting in his company upon the Open Spaces Committee, an opinion shared in by a large majority of the Committee, that the hon. and learned Gentleman did not quite understand the subject with which he was dealing. The hon. and learned Member had thought proper to state that he (Mr. Sandford) had carried a proposition for the repeal of the statute of Merton against the wish of a great portion of that Committee; but he held in his hand a record of the division upon the occasion referred to, and it showed that ten Members supported him in the proposition and four voted against him. Not only so, but one-half of the Report upon the subject, which was drawn up by the hon. and learned Gentleman himself, was occupied by an elaborate defence of the repeal the Committee had decided upon. It was certainly most extraordinary conduct on the part of the hon. and learned Gentleman to retort upon him for having carried a proposition to which he had himself devoted four or five pages of his Report. [Mr. LOCKE: It required so much defending.] The statute of Merton permitted the lord of the manor to enclose all the waste that he pleased, provided he left the commoners sufficient pasturage. If the rights of the commoners were encroached upon by the lords of the manor, their only remedy was in an expensive lawsuit; and, as that was the sum and substance of the statute, the House would not be surprised that the Committee had
 636 637
 MR. SHAW-LEFEVRE  said, he thanked the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) for having brought in this Bill, and regretted that the hon. Member for Lambeth should have so hastily condemned it, from misapprehending its scope or purport. The Bill was founded on the Report of the Select Committee, and it would neither confiscate the rights of the lord of the manor, nor touch those of the commoners and the public. It was certainly a matter for consideration whether some of these rights should not be purchased, but having been a member of the Select Committee, and since then having paid much attention to the subject, he had come to the conclusion that it was not desirable that the rights of the lords of manors should be purchased at once; because he believed there were very few commons with which the lords of the manor could deal either with or with out the consent of the commoners. He found that with regard to all the commons around London the interests of the commoners were opposed to the lords of the manor, and that there was no possibility of obtaining the consent of the latter. The commoners still claimed the right of turning out cattle upon them; but they used them for the purpose of keeping the commons open as against the lords for the benefit of the public, and not for feeding cattle. As to the rights of the public in these commons, the hon. Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford) appeared to revel in the notion that the public had no such rights It might be so; but that was an undetermined question of law. There could be no doubt that in regard to many of the smaller commons, such as village greens, the public had rights. Therefore, in the present state of the law and of the titles to all these commons, it was not desirable that the Metropolitan Board should at once proceed to purchase them. The question was—What steps should be taken to prevent tin deterioration of these commons by nuisances of all kinds? The evidence of Lord Spencer in respect to Wimbledon Common showed the very great difficulties under which lords of the manor now laboured in preventing encroachments and nuisances of various descriptions upon commons. Great nuisances and deterioration were going on on almost every common around London, to the injury alike of the lords of the manor, the commoners, and the neighbouring inhabitants. If these commons were to be
 638
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he rose to move that a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the operation of the Fishery (Scotland) Act (1862). He was anxious to explain to the House that this Act did not profess to make any alteration or change in the law of Scotland, but to be a declaratory Act; and so anxious was the Government to avoid even the appearance of interfering with the rights of property, that a special clause was introduced into the Bill, providing that none of the acts of the Commissioners appointed to carry out
 583 584 585 586 587
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he had quoted the evidence of the Lord Advocate given before the House of Lords to show that stake-nets were of great antiquity. [Sir JAMES FERGUSSON: But not drag-
 591
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to bring in any Bill during the present Session of Parliament to amend the Law relating to Weights and Measures so far as the same refers to the use of local and customary measures and the present mode of imposing and applying the penalties and costs under the Act 5 & 6  Will.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce a Bill with respect to weights and measures which would deal with the standard and the proper modes of verifying the copies of the standard; but there was no intention to bring in a Bill with respect to the special points to which the hon. Gentleman has alluded.
 MR. CHILDERS  replied that that Question had been brought by the Treasury under the notice of the Irish Government.
 MR. DYCE NICOL  said, that as a proprietor both of coast and river fishing in Scotland, he had had an opportunity of seeing the working of the Act, and could bear testimony to the benefit which had accrued therefrom to the salmon fishery. The proprietors were under great obligation to the Commissioners for the careful manner in which they had fixed the boundaries, and these had been generally acquiesced in by the parties concerned. He was glad to
 589
 MR. BLAKE  said, it had been stated by the hon. Member for the county of Waterford (Mr. Esmonde) that chartered rights which had existed for centuries in Ireland had recently been swept away, but he (Mr. Blake) affirmed that not a single chartered right had been abolished in Ireland under the operation of the existing Act. So far from the Fishery Act interfering with the chartered weirs in Ireland, it had greatly improved them; and he could name many that were extremely valuable. Numerous unjust claims to private fisheries have been set aside, and the result was that the general fishery had increased. Since he had been a Member of the House, no Bill had ever passed which was calculated to do so much good as the Irish Fisheries Act. Never had a Bill been more called for, and never a law more fairly administered. A few years ago the fisheries of Ireland did not amount to more than £300,000 a year, whereas now, before seven years were over, they would reach more than four times that amount. Formerly the fisheries afforded to 300 or 400 persons a precarious existence, but now about 2,000 persons obtained from them an exceedingly comfortable living.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that when the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Doulton) objected to the Bill of the right hon. Gentleman he should have told the House what his own plan was. The plan of the hon. Gentleman was laid before the Committee, and the Committee rejected it, while the plan upon which the Bill was founded was carried. The hon. Member's plan was a Metropolitan Board of Works plan to compensate everybody, whether they had anything for which to compensate them or not. [Mr. SANDPOKD: Oh, oh!] He (Mr. Locke) should like to know what course the hon. Gentleman who cried "oh!" took in the Committee. It was difficult to say, for he was first up and then down. He first advocated one side and then the other. A more inconsistent Member of a Committee, or one more obstructive, he (Mr. Locke) had never had the lot to meet since he had had the honour of a seat in that House. He cheered compensation now as a delightful thing. What did he propose in the Committee? That the statute of Merton should be abolished. He and his statute of Merton were the clog on the Committee throughout. They must look at the two propositions that were made in Committee. One was made by the hon.
 633 634 635
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he rose to move for a Select Committee to inquire into the Mortality in the Troops in China; the causes which led to it; and the conduct of those Departments of the Government whose duty it has been to administer to the wants of those troops. As the Government had expressed their willingness to grant the Committee he would make but very few remarks upon the subject. The fact that the Committee would be granted was  primâ facie The Times 645 "I would therefore request your Lordship's instructions as to the disposal of the 2nd battalion 11th Regiment, which by Horse Guards' letter of the 26th August last it is proposed to send to China, as under existing circumstances it will be impossible to provide for it in this country." Gresham, "The Gresham left Hong Kong on the 13th of October, 1865, with 239 persons on board, and arrived at Simon's Bay on the 6th of December, having lost by death 31 men, 3 women, and 6 children, principally from dysentery, the remaining invalids being in a very unhealthy state. The commodore had the troops immediately removed from the ship, some, the healthiest, were put into huts; some not so well were sent on board Her Majesty's ship  Seringapatam, 646 "Sir,—I have the honour to report that a Board of Officers on which I attended was ordered: by his Royal Highness the Field Marshal Commanding-in-Chief to ascertain whether the mortality on hoard the hired transport  Gresham, excreta Agincourt s. 647 "That a Select Committee be  appointed
 MR. PIM  said, he wished to express his satisfaction at the course indicated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. OLIPHANT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is his intention to inquire into the present condition of the Military Store Department, with a view of insuring greater economy and efficiency in its administration; as well as of redressing the just grievances of which the Officers of that Department complain; and which arise from stagnation of promotion, inequality of rank, and inadequate representation of the War Office?
 MR. MARSH  said, that he had great pleasure in seconding the Motion. He would refer to circumstances connected with the establishment of Victoria as a distinct colony from New South Wales, and to the original institution in those two colonies of what was called responsible Government, though it was hardly in his power to add anything to what had been so ably stated by the noble Lord. Having resided in the colony, and having paid considerable attention to what had there occurred, he thought the noble Lord had correctly described the state of the colony and the general tendency of its institutions. The practically-universal suffrage which existed was the  fons et origo mali. 615
 MR. MARSH  seconded the Motion.
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he did not wish to discuss the merits of the controversy which had arisen between the two Houses of Legislature in Victoria, but, having read the despatches very carefully, he hoped he might be allowed to say that in his opinion the Secretary of State for the Colonies (Mr. Cardwell) had come to a most correct judgment in the matter, and had expressed that judgment in his despatches in the most judicious and well-chosen language. The right hon. Gentleman had blamed and withdrawn the Governor for having made himself a partizan in the dispute, but had not expressed any opinion on the dispute itself. In that course he most entirely agreed with the right hon. Gentleman. However much it might be regretted that the Assembly of Victoria had adopted what in this country would be deemed a retrograde system of legislation, it was evidently not the duty of this country to interfere by coercive means or by holding out a threat to the people of the colony. He would make a few remarks which might elicit some expression of opinion as to the
 616 617
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he thought no one could doubt that the object of the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets was in entire conformity with the constitutional practice of the House. He agreed with the Motion of the hon. Member, and thought he deserved the thanks of the House. His right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer had remarked upon the only point of doubt which would occur to any one's mind upon the subject. It was clear that every petition and Motion for a grant of public money should, on the ground of economy, and for the safety of the people, be initiated by the responsible Ministers of the Crown. On the other hand, there were cases where they might
 599
 MR. WALPOLE  said, he quite concurred in what had fallen from his right hon. Friend. His own opinion was in accord with that of the hon. Baronet, and he could say for Members on that side of the House, that they were not desirous of keeping up any test which was in the slightest degree unnecessarily offensive or distasteful to the feelings of others. He quite agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the papers laid upon the table of the House during the last Parliament showed that there was a number of oaths which it would be well to repeal. He hoped he might consider what had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer as an intimation coming from Government that they would be prepared to consider the whole question. There was clearly too great a variety of oaths, and if, as he believed, the simpler they were in form the more solemn they were, he should be very glad to see some modification of them adopted.
 MR. COGAN  said, he could allay the fears of the hon. Gentleman. The Settlement of this country would not be in any way endangered if the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend was accepted, because the second clause proposed to enact that nothing in this Act contained should be construed to enable any person professing the Roman Catholic religion to exercise any office which could now be held only by persons making the declaration which the Act proposed to repeal, The object of the Act was simply to remove a declaration which was offensive to Catholics, and which had given great pain to many persons who were obliged to take it.
 SIR ARTHUR BULLER  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in the event of the Bill for the Representation of the People passing into Law, it is the intention of the Government to introduce any measure in relation to corrupt practices at Elections; and, if so, when?
 MR. DU CANE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, in reference to the Representation of the People Bill, Whether it is intended that the occupation franchise for County Voters should, in the case of non-resident claimants, be joined with premises of £6 value, as stated in the Bill itself, or of £7 as stated by him in his speech on moving for leave to introduce the measure?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that the Amendment was not confined to Motions for the grant of public money, but extended to petitions in relation to any grant from, or charge upon, the public funds. The hon. Mover said it was the present law. As he (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) thought the present law ought to be altered, he wished to call attention to it. Being a member of the Petitions' Committee he could state that there was hardly a meeting of that Committee at which petitions were not rejected on account of their praying for a grant of public money or some similar informality. Among the petitions, for example, relating to the cattle plague there were some which prayed for compensation partly out of the local rates, and partly from the Consolidated Fund; and every such petition was rejected. Again, many petitions coming from Ireland, having reference to medical charities and the like, were rejected on the same ground. Why should there be any Standing Order of that kind in regard to petitions? He believed that the practice of the House was formerly that anybody might originate a Motion upon a petition, when it might be discussed. He could see great inconvenience in allowing independent Members to move grants of public money, but there could be none in allowing constituents to petition the House in reference to such grants. This matter had been discussed in the Petitions' Committee, and it was the unanimous opinion of the members of that Committee that the Standing Order was worthless. He suggested that the words relating to petitions in the proposed Standing Order be omitted.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he rose to move that the House resolve itself; into Committee in order that the Chair man might be directed to move the House that leave be given to bring in a Bill to abolish a certain declaration commonly called a Declaration against. Transubstantiation, the Invocation of Saints, and the: Sacrifice of the Mass, as practised in the Church of Rome, and to render it unnecessary to take, make, or subscribe the same as a qualification for the exercise or enjoyment of any civil office, franchise, or I right. Many Members, when they saw the notice of his Motion on the paper doubtless were unaware that such a declaration was in existence. It was instituted in the reign of Charles II., at a time when great excitement prevailed in the country, and the people were afraid of the in crease of Roman Catholic influence. The declaration was embodied in terms most offensive to Roman Catholics, but, according to the present law, before accepting certain public offices they were compelled to make the declaration. The person making the declaration expressed his belief that the body and blood of our Lord were not present in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, and that the Sacrifice of the Mass and the Invocation of the Saints were superstitious and idolatrous. It had to be made by every one who succeeded to any office from which Roman Catholics were by law excluded. The Lord Lieu tenant of Ireland had to subscribe the declaration in the presence of the Members of the Privy Council in Ireland, many of whom were themselves Roman Catholics That was manifestly an offensive proceeding, and one which was wholly unnecessary. He would not, by the Bill he then asked leave to introduce, make any change whatever in the law which excluded Roman Catholics from certain offices; but he would merely put an end to the necessity at present imposed on Protestants, under certain circumstances, to make the declaration The declaration was a relic of barbarism, which ought to be immediately erased from the statute-book. He did not believe there was one. Member who would attempt to justify its retention, and he therefore moved that the Speaker leave the Chair,
 MR. POWELL  said, he seconded the Motion. He congratulated the Government on having grappled with a difficult subject, but could not help regretting that the First Commissioner had not enlarged the radius from fifteen to twenty-five miles. He also thought that power of originating action should be given to the inhabitants of the district, as well as to commoners and lords of the manor. He could hardly go so far as to advise the extension of the Bill to the whole country, although he was aware that the Inclosure Commissioners, while paying regard to the interests and rights of the manor, had often exhibited but little care for the rights of the people. He could mention cases within his own knowledge where the spaces devoted under the Inclosures Act for recreation and other like purposes were so situated as to be useless for those ends. In the case of Clapham Common negotiations had been entered into between the lord of the manor and the inhabitants, and the result was that the common was open to the public for all purposes of rational enjoyment, while it was at the same time preserved against nuisances. It was quite time that some thing should be done, because a process of encroachment was going on around London. In London the legal rights of the people were extremely narrow and limited. At tempted encroachments on Hampstead Heath had been defeated by the House, not without injury to the individual, who desired to build on other parts of the property he held by the same tenure. He would mention one case which he found in the evidence. Mr. William Thompson was lord of the manor of Tooting. He was, probably, a liberal and philanthropic indivi-
 630
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that agreeing as he did with the object which the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) had in view, he still thought his Amendment required further consideration. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said the proposed alteration of the Standing Order would not tie up the hands of the House, or in any manner prejudice its privileges or its usefulness. Let him attempt to illustrate the case by a remarkable hypothesis which might possibly be realized in our history, as it had been before. Suppose the country were involved in a war, and that during its prosecution the Ministry were engaged in the negotiation of a peace. A Motion might be brought forward by a Member of that House condemning the Ministry and expressing want of confidence in them; but the real object and gist of the Motion and the whole debate upon it might turn upon the question whether peace should be made or not. Now, although the House had no right to decide directly on the question of peace or war, there could be no doubt that it could do so indirectly by agreeing to a Motion of Want of Confidence in the Government. But such a Motion would come within the proposed Standing Order, because, by continuing the war, a charge would, of course, be imposed on the public. If, therefore, the present Amendment were adopted, he apprehended that such a Motion of Want of Confidence in the Government, under the circumstances supposed, could not be brought forward without the consent of the Ministry of the day. That
 601
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he wished to ask whether the Commissioners would have power to spend the money on a common without the consent of the lord of the manor?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman ought to have put that Question when the Bill was under discussion. The interpretation of the Act is not left to the Government, but to the judicial authorities.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, Her Majesty's Government do not think that it would be expedient to continue for any considerable time the prohibition of the movement of cattle by railway. They think there ought to be substituted for prohibition permission to move cattle by railway, subject to restrictions and precautions, with the view to prevent the spreading of the
 581
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that if the hon. Member referred to the Act of Parliament, he would see that it directed the slaughter of all infected animals.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he seconded the Motion, He thanked the hon. and gallant Gentleman for the manner in which he had submitted it to the notice of the House. The officers and men of our army, unlike that of other countries, were frequently obliged to spend a considerable time away from their homes in unhealthful climates, and it was the duty of the House of Commons to see that the necessary precautions were taken to provide for their health and safety. If it should be found that this great mortality among our troops was occasioned by negligence the authors ought to be severely punished. He was glad that the Government had consented to a full inquiry.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he thought it rather illogical for the hon. Gentleman who had just spoken to vote for an inquiry into the working of the Scotch
 590
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said, that he second ed the Motion. A Commission, comprising
 642
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to the difficulty now existing throughout the Metropolis of getting rid of manure and offal; and whether any steps are contemplated by the Government for facilitating their removal?
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, he shared entirely in the feeling of gratitude which had been expressed towards the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets for introducing that subject, and also concurred in the Motion which he had laid on the table. That Motion appeared to him to meet the case of the Bills to which his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) had referred. Surely the Motion even for the second reading of a Bill would entirely cover the whole of the contents of that Bill; and still more when they came to the Committee, and the Motion there was that a clause containing a money grant should stand part of the Bill, it was hardly possible to say that that was not a Motion within the meaning of the hon. Member's proposal. The suggestion thrown out by his right hon. Friend (Mr. Walpole) as to enabling the House more maturely to consider Addresses to the Crown, was well deserving attention. Supposing such an Address to involve a grant of public money, it would seem to come under the second Resolution requiring all grants to be considered in Committee of the whole House. Be that as it might, the point was one well worthy of attention. It would then be very desirable that such
 600
 GENERAL PEEL  hoped that the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) would tell the House from what funds the works provided by the Bill were to be made. The right hon. Gentleman said out of the public money. [Mr. COWPER: Of the metropolis.] He was the more anxious to have an answer to this question, because he understood the hon. Member for Bath to tell the House last year that unless the Metropolitan Board of Works obtained a renewal of the coal duties, these improvements could not be carried out. Now, before the House called upon a Committee to consider these Bills, it would be well to inquire where the money was to come from. This, however, was not to be part of the inquiry. A Select Committee, presided over by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), was already sitting to inquire upon the taxation of the metropolis, and he should like to know whether this inquiry was to be hurried on before that Committee had reported.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, that being interested in this matter, he should be unable to vote upon the present Motion, but the public question raised was so important that he should wish to say a few words. The House had to deal with a Bill that affected the public interests. Every one knew the haste with which Private business was conducted, and the impossibility of paying attention to Private Bills unless the notice of the House was especially drawn to them. When once the Bill went before a Private Bill Committee the public had no means of defending its own interest, and the greatest injury might thus be indicted unless the notice of some public officer or of the Members of the House was drawn to the matter. If, therefore, it should appear at any time that by the carelessness with which it was drawn a Bill was calculated injuriously to affect the public, it would not be a very improper punishment for such a misuse of private legislation to throw out the measure and let the promoters bring it in in a more satisfactory mariner.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : It is not competent for the hon. Member to refer to the proceedings of a Committee which has not yet reported to the House.
 MR. LOCKE KING  suggested that the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) should withdraw that Bill, and make some arrangement, with respect to the Standing Orders, with the view of introducing another Bill of a satisfactory character.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the right hon. Gentleman at the head of the Office of Works had spoken of what he should have done if there had been "anything like a compact or engagement." Lt was quite clear that the parties on the other side had thought that there was not only an agreement but a compact; and a most unfortunate state of things now arose. What were the facts of the case? There was a portion of land occupied by wharves and covered with an extremely low set of buildings for the specific purpose of not interrupting the river view from Northumberland House. The value of the property was reduced on account of that speciality; that speciality was brought fairly before the notice of all the parties, and it was stated in the very memorandum of agreement drawn up in the case that the object was to protect the enjoyment of the view from Northumberland House. He must say that if the special pleading now adopted on that matter was to prevail, people must look sharply after all the Acts of Parliament that came of the cognizance of the Department of Works.
 MR. BUXTON  said, the hon. Baronet spoke as though the Nonconformists looked upon this as a matter of little moment; but he (Mr. Buxton) thought the hon. Gentlemen opposite would display great pusillanimity if they refrained from dividing on the second reading of that Bill. The question was not a question of details that might be settled in Committee; it was a broad question of principle, and he was confident that neither his hon. Friend, the Mover, nor the Seconder of that Bill would consent to any compromise whatever with regard to it. They based themselves on the fact that the Universities were not the property of the Established Church, but were the property of the whole nation; whence it inevitably followed that the Dissenters, who formed so large a portion of the nation, were entitled to a full share in all the privileges and all the powers which those Universities could bestow. He was, however, far from thinking that this Bill should be regarded simply as a Bill for the relief of Nonconformists. That, perhaps, might be its more immediate object; but he believed, in its practical result, it would be found that its chief value lay far more in giving relief to Churchmen themselves. For, beyond question, those tests burdened the minds and vexed the consciences of numberless men who yet were genuine members of the Established Church; but these tests were forced upon them at that very time of life when the mind was most inclined to spurn restraint and be revolted at being called upon to accept, wholesale,
 683 684 685
 MR. HENLEY : Sir, I am extremely obliged to my hon. Friend opposite (Mr. Buxton) for having, with his usual honesty and frankness, spoken out clearly on this matter. We can now be under no mistake as to the intentions of the promoters of this Bill. My hon. Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) indicated a wish to come to some sort of arrangement, by which he would be relieved from the task of moving the rejection of the Bill. But what immediately happened? The hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Buxton), who was sitting next to the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge), and who was evidently in full communication with him,
 693 694 695 696
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Sir, I think the supporters of this measure are enjoying a piece of good fortune in having secured so valuable a recruit as the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge), a gentleman having an eloquence such as was rarely heard within the walls of that House, and who also possesses the additional advantage of the advocacy of one whose Churchmanship is undoubted, and whose goodwill to the University to which he belongs is equally free from all possibility of doubt. But though the hon. and learned Member for Exeter is not to be looked upon as a dangerous enemy to the Church in his intention, he may be dangerous in effect. I think the right hon. Gentleman is quite right to make the most of the hon. and learned Member's Churchmanship; it is a great thing for people of his opinion to say, "Look here, we really have got a live Churchman among us at last!" But, of course, eccentricities of opinion are to be found in the most respected and the
 707 708 709 710
 MR. MORLEY  said, the question had been treated as though the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge were originally instituted in direct connection with the Established Church, whereas most of the Colleges were founded before the Reformation. No declaration of belief was re-
 711
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  declared that the "Ayes" had it.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Mr. Deputy Speaker, I beg to call attention to the fact that the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) called with the "Ayes," and afterwards challenged your decision.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : The vote would be given in accordance with the last voice.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : You challenged the decision.
 MR. COWPER  said, his view of the transaction connected with the Thames Embankment Bill passed in 1862 was different from that of the right hon. Gentleman. The Act of 1862 took away the water from the front of certain wharves; and it was necessary either to give compensation for the loss of the water-frontage or to purchase the wharves entirely. It did not then seem of much importance which of those courses was taken, and he had been quite willing that
 658
 MR. COWPER  thought the House must be rather taken by surprise by the severe punishment which the hon. and learned Member wished to impose. He quite agreed that the Bill was drawn in a very careless manner, or perhaps with some possible expectation that the fault would not be observed. The promoters of this Bill stated that it was not their intention to deprive the public of any portion of the recreation
 653
 MR. COWPER , in moving that these Bills be referred to a Select Committee, said, that they were intended to improve the thoroughfares of the metropolis, and promote the convenience of the public, and the cost of carrying them out was to be defrayed out of funds to be raised within the metropolis itself. It seemed to him that measures of this kind ought not to be treated as Private Hills and referred to an ordinary Private Bill Committee, and thus to be withdrawn from the practical cognizance of the House. The Thames Embankment Act was introduced by the Government; it was made a "hybrid" Bill, and among its enactments was one providing that all the reclaimed land not required for the purposes of the highway, and not otherwise appropriated, should be dedicated to the use and enjoyment of the public, as places of recreation and ornamental grounds. One of the clauses of the present Bill, however, repealed that clause and gave the Metropolitan Board of Works the power of erecting buildings over the whole of the land thus set apart for the enjoyment of the public for ever. This was an important provision, and he mentioned it to show that the House ought not to allow a Bill to pass without special inquiry which would deprive the public of open spaces very essential to the health, recreation, and orna-
 651
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  expressed his pleasure at listening to the speeches of his hon. Friends the Members for East Surrey and Tynemouth, recalling to his mind, as they did, those speeches so
 686 687
 MR. NEATE  thought that there was no reason why the rule acted upon in other Universities should not be applied to the University of Oxford. The real question was, whether the University was not so far a national body that she had no right to confine her privileges to certain classes? The University of London and the Queen's University in Ireland were institutions on the open principle, and there was no reason why the same principle should not be applied to Oxford and Cambridge. This had been put forward too much as a question between Churchmen and Dissenters; but it was really a question whether they had a right to apply to those who were willing and desirous to remain in communion with the Church of England a binding test which they could not accept. If they attempted to ride the young and more intellectual of the students with too tight a hand they would bolt altogether. It was for the sake of such that he urged the abolition of those tests. As to the condition on which hon. Gentlemen opposite were prepared to assent to the second reading of the Bill, in the hope that they would obtain alterations in Committee which would remove their objections to it, he must observe that nothing had been said on his side to encourage that expectation. It was founded entirely on their opinion of the strength of their own case, and the state of parties in the House.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, there was a point with regard to which he wished to have an opinion from the Minister of Public Works. A Bill was introduced several years ago by a Government Department, and all the weight and authority of the Government was brought to bear in that House to carry it. It would appear that the Duke of Northumberland, having at first opposed the Bill, subsequently assented to it upon certain conditions—that was to say, upon certain clauses which were given to him by the Chairman of the Committee, and afterwards ratified by that House. On that understanding the Bill was carried through Parliament. Now an arrangement having been made on settled conditions between the Government and the Duke of Northumberland, there ought at all events to be clauses introduced to prevent that settlement being unsettled, and the Duke left year after year to fight the battle over again. It was no longer a question between the Duke of Northumberland on the one side, and the House of Commons and the public on the other; but the Government Department which had made a compact with him and given certain pledges on their part ought to defend their own Act of Parliament, and not throw the burden of doing so upon an individual.
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he thought the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Lowe) had spoken in terms which went much beyond the question before the House. He was glad he had done so; he only hoped the arguments he had used to-day might not by-and-bye be turned against himself, and the storm which he invoked for the University might not break out on another subject. His hon. Friend the Member for Canterbury (Mr. Butler-Johnstone) had spoken with a
 700 Universitas, collegium 701 702 703 704
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that having had the honour in a previous Session of bringing in a Bill almost precisely identical with that now brought in by the hon. and learned Member for Exeter, he desired to address a few words to the House. He had awaited with considerable curiosity the course which would be taken this Session by the opponents of the Bill, as it was clear they would not be able to carry out the same programme as last year. Last year their policy was simple enough; it was to represent the Bill as part of a general onslaught on the Church, to impeach the Churchmanship of its supporters, and to describe them as holding a misty and muddy religion, to raise bugbears about parents and guardians who would not send their chilrden to the Universities, and to represent the spirit of the Bill as hostile to the Church and to religious teaching, and the supporters of the Bill as secretly attached to the worst form of religious infidelity. But it was clear that the same programme could not be adopted on the present occasion, seeing that the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the measure was one whose attachment to the Church could not be impugned. The House had had the advantage, therefore, of hearing the question discussed on its merits, and the issue had been very much narrowed. The hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) bad opposed the Bill on the ground that it would effect no final settlement of the matter, but would lead to further demands on the part of Dissenters. Now, this was not the first time this Session that a measure had been objected to on the ground that it was not a
 705 706
 MR. TREVELYAN  seconded the Motion. Certain Gentlemen opposed this Bill upon the ground that it would give an advantage to the sister, or as some would call it the rival, University. He entertained no such apprehensions. Speaking, as he knew he was, the sentiments of a considerable minority of Cambridge men, so far from viewing this measure with anything like a feeling of envy, they cordially congratulated themselves upon the prospects which this Bill presented to them. The interests of the one institution were identical with those of the other, and they were anxious to stand by the true friends of the University of Oxford now, because they knew that when their turn came for Reform those friends would stand by the sister University, which so eagerly desired Reform, and wanted it even more. The friends of the sister University desired to return to that state of things which the hon. and learned Gentleman had depicted with such fidelity, when the education in the Universities as well as the religion of the country were national—when, in fact, the institutions of the country were not only national but cosmopolitan. When Erasmus came from Germany he was not called upon to make tests or affirmations; the tests were framed subsequently by the wisdom of our ancestors as represented by Lord Leicester. It was idle to deny that the best College education was not one of a religious, but of a secular character. He knew that once or twice in the course of their residence the students were obliged to get up a certain amount of theology by means of grammars, epitomes, and  memoria technica. 670 671
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, there was only one point as regarded the speech
 690 691 692
 MR. FAWCETT : I beg the noble Lord's pardon. I am quite certain I cried "Ayes" and that the word "No" never escaped my lips.
 MR. FAWCETT : I only said "Aye."
 MR. LAMONT  said, that, as a Scotch Member, he desired to express his approval of the Bill. Fully 19–20ths of the population of Scotland regarded the illiberal regulations by which Nonconformists were debarred from the advantages of University education as a national grievance and a national insult. In that feeling he entirely sympathized, and, as a representative of a Presbyterian country, he would give his most cordial support to the Bill.
 MR. COLERIDGE : Sir, I am sorry that I should be obliged to break the silence I had hoped long to observe in this House with regard to a subject in itself so difficult and important, mixed up with so many complicated considerations, and in respect of which I must expect to come across the feelings and convictions of many hon. Gentlemen whose goodwill and support I would most gladly conciliate. How it has come to pass that this measure has fallen from the hands of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for London (Mr. Goschen) into mine can form no matter of interest to the House; but I may observe that it is only at the desire of other Members, and more especially at the desire of the hon. Member for Elgin (Mr. Grant Duff), that I have undertaken this duty—a duty which every one must feel that he, the zealous and consistent advocate of the measure, would himself have far better discharged, and yet I am not altogether sorry to be obliged to speak upon this question, because with respect to it, and with respect to questions of a kindred character, I desire to say that I recognize a double duty—the duty first of all of a member of the Church of England, and of a member of the University of Oxford, to maintain what he believes to be the best and truest interest of the great religious body, and of the noble academical institution to which it is his privilege and his blessing to belong; and the duty of a Liberal Member of Parliament to advance by all lawful and honourable means those Liberal opinions which he ardently professes, and which he has entered this House to support. I believe that these duties need not in the least conflict, certainly not upon the present occasion; for, yielding to no hon. Gentleman in loyal gratitude to the Church of England and to the University of Oxford, it is distinctly as a Churchman and as a University man that I venture to submit this Bill to the favourable attention of the House. It is a Bill which has hitherto received a persistent and successful opposition—successful, that is to say, from the force of circumstances, and not as the result of divisions in this House. It is a Bill to enable the lay subjects of
 660 661 662 663 664 "Through the same gateways, sleep where they have slept, Wake where they waked, range that inclosure old, That garden of great intellects," 665 666 "Murmuring submission and bald government, The idol weak as the idolator, And Decency and Custom starving Truth, And blind Authority beating with his staff The child who might have led him." corruptio optimi est pessima; 667 "—Cupidum, pater optime, vires Deficiunt." 668 669 "Magnanimity in politics is not seldom the truest wisdom, and a great Empire and little minds go ill together."
 MR. COLERIDGE  said, that if the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford had a right to make such a remark with regard to the number of votes given in favour of the Amendment, he had a right on the other side to say that a large number of Gentlemen on his side of the House had also left under the impression that their votes would not be required. He was quite satisfied with the present state of things, and of course the hon. Member for the University would be at full liberty to do exactly as he pleased when the Bill came before the Committee.
 MR. COLERIDGE , in reply, said, before the House went to a division he wished to say a word or two in order that the real meaning of the promoters of the Bill might be clearly understood. He was extremely thankful for the courtesy and kindness with which hon. Gentlemen opposite had listened to him; but he should be untrue to his own convictions, and perfectly untrue to those hon. Gentlemen who had allowed him to be their unworthy spokesman, should he hold out any hope that he could accept any compromise. Such a course would be opposed to the very principle of the Bill, which was to make the University a truly national institution—free in the widest sense to all the subjects of the Queen. He was sorry to find that this branch of the subject appeared so small and contemptible a matter in the eyes of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe). He did not pretend that his mental stature was such as would enable him to grasp the very large measures suggested by the right hon. Gentleman; he was content with introducing a short and small measure that was not beyond his understanding. When the right hon. Gentleman had by means of agitation roused the popular enthusiasm to the necessary pitch, let him then by all means bring his larger measure forward. The objection of the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) to the Bill was short; he said that it would destroy the religious character
 712
 MR. LOCKE  would only say that what he had stated was in his mind the real state of things. By that Bill there was no land or houses in the line of deviation through which that street could pass, and the Duke of Northumberland's property being excluded, the street could not be made at all under its provisions; but it would be necessary to come to Parliament next Session for the purpose of making a street in a different line altogether. Therefore, there would not be much importance in striking that Bill out of the right hon. Gentleman's Motion. He agreed entirely with the noble Lord opposite (Viscount Cranbourne), that, in regard to cases of that description, there was not sufficient notice given to the public. These were not Bills which ought to be brought in as ordinary Private Bills. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) did per-
 657
 MR. LOCKE  said, he hoped the hon. and learned Member for Sheffield would proceed with his Amendment. The new street was not to be made through the Duke of Northumberland's property, and no land or houses were mentioned in the Bill through which the street substituted would pass. He understood Sir John Thwaites to state to the Committee that it would be necessary to introduce a new Bill next Session for making the street from Trafalgar Square to the Thames Embankment. Therefore, it was not of so much consequence if the Bill referred to in the Amendment were struck out of the Motion of the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. ROEBUCK  must admit that he, for one, was very jealous of granting these powers, which they was told were never intended to be employed. The Metropolitan Board of Works asked for powers by this Bill to do away with an Act which secured to the public the enjoyment of certain land reclaimed by the Embankment. Instead of sending the Bill to a hybrid Committee, the best course would be to send the Bill to a Committee that day six months.
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, that, unless the hon. Member for Bath accepted the proposal made by the hon. Member for Surrey, he should divide the House.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, he must remind the hon. Member for Bath that it was not stated in the Bill from what source the funds were to be provided. Was it from the ratepayers, and, if so, would they have notice? If, on the other hand, the money was to come from the coal duties, what arrangement would be made for that purpose?
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  said, that before the right hon. Gentleman last addressed the House he had wished to point out that the Bill referred to had been drawn in a most improper manner, and that if it were not a measure of some importance it ought not to be permitted to go to a Committee at all. Sufficient notice was not provided for the persons whose property was interfered with, and no one would know until it was too late to take objection to it whether it would touch their property or not; neither was any fund provided from which the expenditure was to be defrayed. This was a most objectionable feature of the Bill, and ought not to be tolerated in any Private Bill. It was for the House to consider whether on account of the importance of the measure it should not be an exception; but if the other promoters of similar
 654
 MR. LOWE : Sir, the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) has told us that every Gentleman who speaks in this debate ought to have two qualifications—one the power of speaking with great solemnity, and the other that of representing the Dissenting community. I do not pretend to one or other qualification; but still, without possessing either, I hope I may be permitted to say a very few words on this subject—to me, one of very great interest, having spent some eleven years of my life in the University of Oxford. If I may venture a criticism on the very admirable speech of the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge), it would be that I think he made the measure we are dealing with appear to be more than it really is. Because he must remember that several Colleges of Oxford are already open; Nonconformists are admitted; the system is so far thrown open, and all the risk of the want of distinctive teaching has been incurred. Nonconformists, Roman Catholics, and I believe some Jews are mixed up together in several of the Colleges, and these not the least distinguished; and, therefore, the evil to which the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) has referred already exists. The only thing this Bill does is that it will enable Nonconformists having taken B.A. to take the degree of
 697 698 699
 MR. TITE  hoped that the House would not visit the sins of the drawer of the Bill upon him. He had nothing to do with the preparation of the measure, but being a member of the Metropolitan Board of Works his name, with that of two other Members of the House, also members of the Board, appeared on the back of the Bill. The original Bill for making the Thames Embankment in 1862 was brought in by the Government, and the Metropolitan Board of Works had little to do with it. The Government at first proposed to hand over the subject to a Commission, but this was refused by the House, and the Metropolitan Board of Works were charged with the construction of the Embankment. The work, so far as it had progressed, was executed in a creditable manner, and the Embankment promised to be constructed within a moderate time. The Embankment was to be not less than 100 feet wide from Westminster Bridge to Blackfriars, and then it would be continued by means of a new street to the Mansion House. As, however, some of the side approaches of this great road were imperfect the Metropolitan Board of Works brought in a Private Bill, and gave the parties interested the usual notices. The object of the Bill was not to interfere either
 655 sub silentio
 MR. TITE  said, that the Metropolitan Board of Works had no intention whatever of paying for these improvements out of
 652
 MR. TITE  said, that in the preamble of the Bill that question was left open. It awaited the consideration of the Committee on Metropolitan Improvements now sitting upstairs. With regard to the expenses to which private individuals might be put in opposing this Bill, if they should be given by the Select Committee they would be defrayed out of the ordinary funds of the Metropolitan Board of Works, and no wrong would be done in that respect. The Metropolitan Board of Works had suggested the coal duties as the source out of which the expense of the new work should
 656
 MR. TITE : We have no intention of proceeding with the Bill and charging the expenses on the ratepayers in the ordinary way.
 MR. TITE  appealed to the Deputy Speaker to say whether it was not irregular to quote matters given in evidence before a Select Committee before the Committee had reported to the House.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I am sure I express the sentiments of all Members on this side when I tender to the hon. and learned Member for Exeter (Mr. Coleridge) their thanks and admiration for the eloquent speech which he has just delivered. We who knew him expected much from him on his becoming a Member of the House, but I feel I can say that he has exceeded our expectations. I thank him also for that which is even more admirable than his eloquence—for the tone and moderation with which he has brought this subject before the House. If indeed I were to find a fault, it would be with that excess of moderation which has led him to describe the measure as a small one. Taken on its real merits I should not say that the measure was a small one; and after the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman I should be still less disposed to close my eyes to its important and extensive character. Last year, the right hon. Gentleman who had charge of the measure (Mr. Goschen) suggested for consideration the question whether it was or was not a measure of importance, and he chose the alternative of considering it a large and important question. It is in that aspect that the subject presents itself to my own mind; and if hon. Gentlemen have recovered from the charm of the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman, I hope they will allow me briefly to state the nature of the practical difficulties which we have hitherto had to grapple in dealing with the question. I wish to
 672 673 674 675 676 677 bonâ fide dolus latet in generalibus 678 679 680 681 682
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, with reference to the decision that had just taken place, he wished to explain that in the course of the day he had told a great many Gentlemen on that side of the House that he did not intend to press the matter to a division, and they had left the House under the impression that there would be no division upon the question. Under those circumstances, he could not accept the division as an expression of the feeling of the House upon the principle of the Bill. He did not know what course the hon. Member for the University (Sir William Heathcote) would take with regard to the Amendments to be moved in Committee, but he regarded himself as absolved from any promise he had made upon the subject, as he did not think that the House had yet had an opportunity of expressing its sense as to the principle of the Bill.
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that notwithstanding the difficulty which the House would have before it when it came to deal with the Bill in Committee for the purpose of enabling Dissenters to take degrees, he thought it advisable to make the attempt, and therefore he would wish that his hon. Friend the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) would not persist in his Amendment. On previous occasions the House had heard arguments used which, if they meant anything, went the length of recommending the entire abolition, not only of tests in the Univer-
 688 689
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  reminded the hon. Member for Bath that he had again resumed his seat without answering the question whether if the coal duties were not to be resorted to, the Metropolitan Board of Works would go on with the Bill.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the two propositions which are mentioned by the Question of my hon. Friend are propositions of very considerable
 732
 LORD HENRY LENNOX  said, he would; beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether Her Majesty's Government have had under their consideration any scheme for the improvement of the constitution and administration of the British Museum; and, if so, whether they will lay I upon the table of the House the Correspondence which has taken place on this subject between Her Majesty's Government and the Trustees of the British Museum; whether it has been decided to fill up the post of Secretary Librarian under the same conditions as it was recently held by Mr. Panizzi; and whether the Government will lay upon the table of the House any Correspondence that has passed between the Trustees of the British Museum and
 731
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in reply to the hon. Member's question, I have to state that there is no correspondence between the Government and the Trustees of the British Museum, and no decision has been taken as to filling up the post of principal Librarian under the same conditions as it was recently held by Mr. Panizzi. There was some time ago certain communications with the Trustees, but they were not embodied in a correspondence; and although they might be made the subject of explanation when they came to deal practically with the case, they could not be presented separately to the House. In the view of the Government, the first step to be taken is to submit to that House the Vote which they have given notice of their intention to propose for the erection of a building at Kensington; and we can take no other step of a definite character until the House has decided on that. If there is any correspondence respecting the removal of the Ethnographical Collections to the east of London it will be produced.
 LORD HENRY LENNOX : The right hon. Gentleman has not answered the Question with reference to the other correspondence.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : All I can promise is that when the Government moves the Vote to which I have referred they will fully state their views with regard to the whole subject.
 MR. BARING , in reply, said, he hoped to obtain leave that evening to bring in a Bill to afford to Mutual Cattle Insurance Associations additional facilities to recover subscriptions from members of those societies. He also proposed to allow persons to insure in those societies for more than they can at present.
 MR. BARING , in reply, said, the Report of the Royal Commission was now in the press, and would be presented to Parliament before the recess. That Report related to the River Thames, to which the hon. Member's Question alluded.
 The O'DONOGHUE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whe-
 733
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : With respect, Sir, to the first part of the Question of the hon. Member, I may say that I thought my intention was declared with perfect clearness in the Bill. In reply to the latter part of the Question, the answer is, we have no means of forming anything more than a judgment of our own upon the matter, which does not admit of being made the subject of a Return. All county votes the subject of a claim depend upon the parties coming forward to make known precisely what is the state of their property, and we have no means of getting a Return in reference to it. With regard to the judgment we have formed, it is this—we look to the number of copyholders and leaseholders upon the actual register, we compare that with the number of freeholders upon the actual register, and then take into view the very large number of the copyholders and leaseholders within the limits of Parliamentary boroughs who must be disqualified from claiming for the county by the fact that they are in the occupation of their own holdings, and if they are in the occupation of their own holdings they cannot be claimants for a Parliamentary vote in respect of them. Our opinion, therefore, is that the number of persons who would be in a condition to make a claim would be a decidedly small number.
 THE CHANCELLOE OF THE EXCHEQUER : I thought that was the very question I answered. I replied that the subject admitted only of the formation of an opinion respecting it.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  said, that the hon. Member was correct in point of order; but the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks had been enabled to make the statement which he had made by the consent of the House.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he wished to take that opportunity of expressing his regret that he had not been in the House in the early part of the evening, when the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire had put a Question respecting the effects of a deceased soldier. The right hon. Gentleman had privately given him notice that he would ask that Question; but he had expected that the right hon. Gentleman would not have done so until the other Notices on the Paper previously to their going into Committee of Supply should have been disposed of. He understood the right hon. Gentleman to have stated that the relatives of a deceased soldier of the name of Sadler had been unable to recover the sum of £15 which he had placed in a regimental savings bank. But the War Office had been informed by the commanding officer of the regiment that that soldier had not for a considerable period before his death had any account in that bank. He could not account for the circumstance, but the testimony of the commanding officer was conclusive that there was no such sum in the savings bank, and the soldier's friends were informed of that fact.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : The right hon. Baronet has already stated that the application of the words was not intended to convey the meaning to which the right hon. Gentleman objects.
 LORD NAAS  said, he wished before the discussion closed to offer a few remarks to the House in reply to some observations that had fallen from the Attorney General for Ireland with reference to some circumstances that occurred while he (Lord Naas) was Chief Secretary for Ireland. He had not understood from the notice given by his right hon. Friend that the question now under discussion would have been brought before the House. But when the right hon. Gentleman the Attorney General for Ireland chose to make a contrast between the conduct of the Government of which he was a Member and the conduct of the Government in office in 1858, he (Lord Naas) felt bound to offer a few remarks upon what transpired during that year. He admitted that the policy of the Government in 1858 was entirely different from that pursued by the present Government during the last year or two. In the former period a formidable conspiracy was inaugurated in Ireland; but
 767 768 769
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  said, that as he understood the right hon. Baronet's expression he was not prepared to Bay that, although strong, it was un-Parliamentary; hut the right hon. Baronet's subsequent words remove any doubt on that point.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, it would be extremely gratifying if the Commission should be able to meet the wishes of everybody on such a subject as this, and more especially if they could meet the wishes of a profession in which they all took so much interest as the very honourable profession of architects. He could also say for his own part that it would be a matter of deep disappointment to him if the building which would result from the Act of last Session should not be an ornament and an honour to the metropolis. It must not, however, be forgotten that with respect to such a building as this especially,
 793 794 795
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that when the noble Marquess (the Marquess of Hartington) brought forward the Estimates last year he informed the Committee that a Committee had been appointed and had sat during the previous summer, and by repeated adjournments during the greater part of the winter, and that they had recommended several changes in the Department, and he said that these recommendations had relation both to its organization and to economy. He quite agreed with the hon. Baronet the Member for Stamford (Sir Stafford Northcote) in the remark he made last year that as a general rule this House ought not to interfere with the organization of a Department of which the head of that Department was responsible for its working: and he was more inclined to follow that principle on the present occasion, because the noble Marquess had not been sufficiently long at the head of the Department over which he now presides to make him responsible for its working; and because he entirely relied on the noble Lord for the removal of those causes of dissatisfaction which, as he must know, now reigned throughout the whole of this Department. He did not intend to offer any opinion whether that dissatisfaction was based on just and reasonable grounds or not—all he knew was that it existed, and that it was admitted last year by the noble Lord when he brought forward the Estimates; neither would be offer any opinion on the memorial which had been presented by the clerks to the late Secretary of War expressing their dissatisfaction at the changes proposed by the Committee to which he had referred: but this he would say, that when the whole of a Department was dissatisfied it was impossible that it could work well. He hoped, however, that the noble Lord would endeavour to introduce zeal into the Depart-
 798 799
 MR. HENLEY  said, he could not help fearing that in spite of what had been said by the Attorney General, the Government had just taken the very worst possible course in this matter. There were two courses open to them. The first and possibly the best course was to have taken the whole responsibility upon their own shoulders, and to have appointed a fit and proper man to design the building according to their requirements; and the second was to have thrown the competition open to the whole profession. Neither of these courses had been adopted, and the result would be that the responsibility would rest nowhere. Of one thing they might be quite certain—namely, that do what they would, there was sure to be plenty of dissatisfaction with the courts when they were built. But what was wanted was, that in case there should be good ground for that dissatisfaction, Parliament should know who were responsible for the failure.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he hoped the noble Marquess would he able to redeem the pledges to which he seemed committed. The correspondence with respect to the bellows to which the attention of the Committee had just been called was enough to make one imagine that he saw the late Mr. Hume coming among them from wherever he was, and reading the correspondence to which he used to treat the House about muskets. The noble Lord the Secretary for War had, he might add, made a statement that evening with respect to the efficiency of the administration of the army, which involved considerable responsibility, and on which he would find it necessary to act. But they must not forget that the
 808
 GENERAL PEEL  inquired when the Vote for Fortifications would be taken.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that he would state to-morrow.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  called the attention of the noble Marquess to the hardship suffered by non-commissioned officers in India who did not receive the pay due to their rank until the discharge of their predecessors in England had been notified to their regiments.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  rose to order. This matter came under Vote 1, if it came under any Vote in the Estimates, and there was now no Question before the House.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Question before the House was that he should report Progress.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that the hon. Baronet (Sir Harry Verney) was out of order, for they were discussing whether they should proceed with the Civil Service Estimates or report Progress. However, the question raised by the hon. Baronet did not affect the War Department, it was a question entirely for the Secretary of State for India.
 MR. AYRTON  said, this appeared to him to involve a very important question of policy—namely, the expediency of Her Majesty's Government advancing money to private persons to enable them to carry on a private speculation. This was the first time a proposal of that kind had ever been submitted to Parliament. It would certainly act with great injustice. For example, if a builder undertook to build houses in the ordinary way he would have to pay 6 per cent interest for the money he borrowed; whereas, if another person in the same trade took a plot of ground, and if he speculated under favour of this Bill, he would be at liberty to obtain money from the Treasury at 4 per cent, It was to be regretted that the Government had begun a system of communism the end of which could not be foreseen. He there fore thought that these clauses relating to the loan of money to private persons should be struck out.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that upon the abstract principle of political economy the hon. and learned Gentleman was perfectly right; but the Government had to deal with facts. From the rapid increase of the metropolis and large towns, and from the unwillingness of persons to enter into sufficiently large building operations for the working classes, there had arisen a state of things which to some extent might be remedied in the manner proposed by this Bill. The hon. and learned Member was mistaken in saying that this was the first occasion when the Government had advanced money for private purposes. The Government advanced money at the present moment in Ireland for the same purposes as those contemplated by the present Bill, and in England for drain-age for the benefit of landlords. Considering that the present proposal was for the benefit of the working classes, he hoped an abstract principle would not be allowed
 810
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that there was no difficulty in carrying on building operations for the benefit of the working classes in the suburbs of the metropolis. The places where the houses were not fit dwellings for the working classes were situated iii the old part of the town, which was crowded with dwellings, to which the Bill did not apply. As far as money was concerned, the benefit building societies had plenty, and the real difficulty in applying it to the purpose of providing dwellings for the working classes arose from the jealousy exhibited by the House of Commons in Conner times of any society interfering with land. Consequently, in the Acts regulating those societies there were clauses preventing their dealing directly and honestly with land for the purpose of building houses. What was wanted was that the law should be amended, so that these societies of working people might have facilities for taking land for building purposes; but it was plainly objectionable to advance public money to a private speculator to enable him to enter into a building competition with others.
 LORD ELCHO  asked, whether the Secretary to the Treasury had taken into consideration what class of buildings would be erected under the Bill, what would be their value, the probable number of £7 houses and £10 houses which would be erected, and in what boroughs and cities they were likely to be situated?
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the point raised by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton), might have been more properly raised on the second reading of the Bill, the principle of which it affected. It was a surprise to him to hear it stated that there were houses in abundance for everybody, because the general belief was that there was a scarcity of houses for the labouring classes. If that were so, it did not seem unreasonable that Government should advance money on easier terms than it could be had in the public market to supply the want. As to the Bill putting a stop to building, private builders did not usually build unless they had something like the fee simple of land or along lease of it. The Bill was not restricted to any class of persons, and any one who
 811
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  wished to know, whether anything had been determined in respect to the plans on which the houses were to be built. The Public Works Commissioners of Ireland had prepared plans for such dwellings on a liberal scale. He trusted that the operation of the Bill would be superintended by competent persons, who would really understand what were the best plans on which to construct dwellings in any particular town; and he feared that the Bill would be nullified if these matters were left to the Public Works Commissioners, than Whom no one had offered more opposition to the rendering of assistance in the erection of this class of dwellings in Scotland.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply to his noble Friend the Member for Haddington shire (Lord Elcho), he must confess that in preparing the Bill he had no eye to the Reform question, which did not agitate him in the least. He did not feel it necessary to consider the probable number of possible electors who would take advantage of the Bill. In regard to the machinery for carrying it out, the precedent of the Irish Act had been adopted. Under the general direction of the Treasury, rules, regulations, and plans would be prepared by] the Department of the First Commissioner of Works, and with these any building brought under provisions of the Bill must conform; and there was no intention of employing for any purpose, except inquiries as to security, the machinery of the Commissioners. An answer he had given had been misunderstood by the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, for only one-half the value of a building could be obtained from Government. As they had heard from the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley), there was great demand for additional accommodation for the working classes. They must not be driven out of the towns to the outskirts, which were in many instances miles from their employment. To put them to inconvenience made labour more expensive, and diminished the labour power of the country.
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, he dissented from the opinion of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets. There was great need of dwellings for the
 812
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  supported the Bill, which was salutary in its object, and remarked that building societies had studiously avoided the substitution for old and dilapidated dwellings of new and improved ones. He desired to point out that the Bill was not confined to the metropolis, but that any bodies constituted under the Local Government Act might make use of it. He looked upon the measure as a wise and sanitary one which would benefit small towns, and he was therefore prepared to support it.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  observed, that it would be necessary that those representing the First Commissioner of Works should be well acquainted with the building materials used in different parts of the country, so as not to insist upon the use in the north of materials which were obtainable only in the south, or  vice versâ.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Department had an efficient officer in Scotland, fully competent to advise in these matters.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that in order to attain the object aimed at, advances should be restricted to those public bodies which would destroy houses unfit for habitation and build others; but the Bill should not tempt capitalists to speculate in cottage building. It would be a monstrous thing to lend money at 4 per cent to a manufacturer who came in competition with another unable to avail himself of the Bill. The latter part of the clause was altogether preposterous. It amounted to a species of communism which no feelings of philanthropy could justify. He hoped the House would have the moral courage to set its face against it. He moved that the latter portion of the clause from the word "same" be omitted, leaving the Government to make advances to benefit societies.
 MR. AKROYD  said, there was nothing in the Bill to lead to the assumption that money would be advanced to manufacturers, but he apprehended that if the Bill passed, rules would be made bringing building societies under its operation. The reason for bringing in the Bill was not because there was any call for it by the manufacturers in the north, but because of the great want of proper dwellings for the working classes in London. He thought that the Govern-
 813
 SIR MICHAEL BEACH  hoped the Government would exercise some super-vision over the plans of these buildings and some control over the rents which the working classes would have to pay—adopting, in fact, the principle which had been found so useful in administering the Pea-body donation,
 MR. OTWAY  said, he was at a loss to understand the objection of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, But he did think that there was not a sufficient security that the dwellings to be erected would be fit dwellings for the working classes.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Bill contained the same words as the Irish Act, and they would be quite sufficient to insure that proper buildings were erected for the working classes. He would not go into the politico-economical question which had been raised, as the House had so clearly expressed its views on that subject. The Department which would have to be satisfied as to the security was not a Government Department. The Public Works Commission had not that intimate connection with the Government as had been supposed by some hon. Gentlemen.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  objected to loans being granted to companies such as harbour and railway companies. The want that was felt in the metropolis of dwellings for the working classes was caused in great measure by so many houses having been pulled down in order to make room for railway stations, and the Bill certainly ought not to he complicated by the introduction of a clause enabling railway and other companies to carry on speculations with regard to these loans.
 MR. CHILDERS  thought the clause was a most valuable one. Its object was; to prevent any question which might otherwise be raised as to the legality of railway; and dock companies to raise funds under this measure for building houses, In other words, it authorized such companies to take
 814
 MR. CHILDERS  objected to the proposed addition. There would be ample power to make proper conditions in each case as might be deemed feasible.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  called attention to the complex character of the Bill.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the rules and regulations mentioned in the 4th section would be very carefully drawn up.
 MR. AYRTON  asked the hon. Gentleman whether he would lay those rules and regulations upon the table of the House?
 MR. CHILDERS  signified his willingness to do so.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  inquired whether it was intended to extend the benefits of the measure to Ireland?
 MR. CHILDERS  replied in the affirmative, stating that this would be done in a Bill which the Government was about to introduce for amending the Public Works (Ireland) Act.
 MR. CHILDERS  then proposed an additional clause, providing that all rules and regulations made by the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury under the provisions of the Act should he laid before Parliament,
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he wanted to save the Secretary of State for War a very great amount of trouble. He wished the noble Marquess to confess what he himself, as well as many gentlemen both inside and outside of that House perfectly well knew—namely, that the whole of that great War Department was in a state of utter confusion If the noble Marquess would re-organize the whole of the administrative department of the army be would be relieved from these long discussions. Complaints were made sometimes that the clerks were too few, and sometimes that they were too numerous. He complained of the want of system in the War Department, and the extraordinary manner in which the work was performed. He held in his hands a sample of War Office correspondence, which supplied a very good illustration of the present state of the military administration, and led him to consider what would be the result in a great emergency—such, for instance, as the commencement of a war with any country. With the permission of the House he would read the minute he had made from the correspondence to which he referred. It was correspondence of a most important character, relative to the supply of a pair of bellows to the camp at the Curragh of Kildare. After a lengthy correspondence, the local Commissariat officer at the Curragh camp on the 12th February obtained authority from the War Department to indent on the Royal Engineer Department for a pair of bellows, urgently required in the camp, and applied for them to the district Engineer officer; on the 16th the district Engineer officer applied to the Military Store officer at Dublin; on the 19th the Military Store officer at Dublin
 803 804
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel) has said that this Vote has not shown the whole of the expenditure of the administration of the army, and, with one or two exceptions, that statement is correct. The right hon. Gentlemen has also stated that the apparent saving in this Vote is more than counterbalanced by the extra sums in other Votes. I think, however, that I can show that an actual saving has been effected through the re-organization which we have commenced but not yet completed. Up to the last year the expenditure of the War Office has been an increasing expenditure. Now, the War Office is comparatively a new office; and the system adopted with reference to the remuneration of the clerks is, that they receive progressive salaries till they receive the maximum amount paid to them in their several classes. Consequently, the expenditure in respect of the clerks would go on increasing until a certain number of them obtained their maximum salaries. I find that if no changes whatever had been made in the War Office that the charge on account of the clerical establishments would have amounted to £129,500; but this year the charge for the clerical establishment, as given in Vote 18, amounts to only £112,140. It is true that we have to add to that sum, as stated by the right hon. Gentleman, £2,240 on account of the barrack department, and £4,028 for the directors.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I shall come to that point presently. The comparison I have just drawn shows that a saving has been made with regard to the effective establishment amounting to £10,583. The right hon. Gentleman says that an increase has been made in the Vote for the effective service of £10,000; and I am quite willing to admit it, but at the same time it is necessary to state that the whole of the increase is not owing to the re-organization. The sum of £3,600 would have been added to the Superan-
 805 806
 GENERAL PEEL  said, that if he had made any mistake in computing the number of clerks connected with the clothing department, he must ascribe it to the difficulty which, not only all outsiders, but insiders also, experienced in arriving at an accurate comprehension of the Estimates. He found the charges for those clerks had
 807
 MR. HENLEY  said the measure was a very queer Bill upon a very queer subject. Its object was to preserve the health of Her Majesty's troops, and its endeavour was to remove all the penalties which a higher Power bad imposed upon sin, and to give the opportunity of sin without the punishment. He must appeal to the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether they could expect any blessing upon their legislation if they took these unhappy women, freed them from disease, and then turned them loose to follow the same wretched courses, without any attempt to reclaim them. Inspectors were to be appointed for their bodies, but it was not proposed to take any advantage of the opportunity afforded by the curing of disease to induce them to lead a better life on their discharge. The principle of the measure had been in operation since the middle of 1864, but its effect did not appear to have been very satisfactory, for in the last Report on the navy the medical gentlemen made the following note:—"Little or no diminution of disease in the home ports on account of this legislation." He regarded this legislation as vicious if unaccompanied by any attempt at reclamation, and he hoped the right hon. Gentleman would introduce in Committee provisions with that object.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that in the last Parliament Mr. Cobbett moved for the appointment of a Select Committee on the Law of Master and Servant. As that Gentleman was not in the present Parliament, the Secretary of the Association of Working Men, a body formed for the purpose of bringing about an amendment in that law, had requested him to move for the appointment of the Committee this Session. He therefore begged to move for the appointment of a Select Committee on Law of Master and Servant.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was not surprised to find that the hon. and learned Gentleman who had made himself the champion in that House of architecture, and was particularly zealous for one particular style of architecture, should affect to despise those who appreciated any other than the Gothic style. [Mr. BENTINCK said he did not.] At all events, he was not surprised that the hon. and learned Gentleman should be anxious to express an opinion upon a matter so interesting to architects; but he certainly was surprised at the form of the present Motion, because it so happened that although it might be interesting to know the opinion of the House on the subject, yet that opinion was not called for on the question now under discussion. The House had agreed to the "Courts of Justice Building Act," by which the decision as to the plans and the modes of apportioning the building was left to the Treasury, with the advice and concurrence of such persons as Her Majesty might name for the purpose. Therefore, the House having by adopting that Act placed the responsibility on the Treasury and the Commissioners, it was hardly proper that it should now resume the power thus transferred. He
 784 785 786 787
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET , in moving the second reading of this measure, explained that it was intended to renew an Act passed in 1864 for the health of our soldiers and sailors in the various ports, with additional powers recommended by
 815
 LORD GEORGE MANNERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce any measure for the purpose of placing existing local Mutual Cattle Insurance Associations on a sound and legal basis?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, that when two years since he brought under the attention of the House what he considered the extravagant charge of this Department, and he was told that economy should be introduced into the Vote, he felt a little exultation at the thought that he had done Borne slight good to the country by drawing attention to it; but he confessed that after
 800 précis 801
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he thought the principle which should be adopted with the view to effecting a reduction in the expenses connected with army administration was to allow a certain freedom of action to men holding important situations as to the small details which came under their consideration, making them strictly responsible for the result of the exercise of their own discretion in those matters. Everybody was cognizant of the fact that although our soldiers were dying for want of beds in the Crimea they could not be obtained because a requisition for them had not been sent in in due form, until Miss Nightingale ordered a grenadier to knock in the door of the room in which they were. He also believed that it was on record that during the war in Africa, in the time of the Napiers, the General commanding the troops was obliged to pay for the great coats, which he took upon himself the responsibility of directing to be served out to them, because, the regulation being that great coats were to last for five years, he could not in the ordinary course procure them until that time had expired, although those which had previously been distributed were worn out owing to the extra services; and he recollected when he himself was in the army eleven signatures were required before the commuted allowance for coals and candles, which was 1 s. d. s. d.
 MR. AYRTON  said, his objections to the measure were still stronger than on the introduction of the original Act. Even in France a flimsy veil was thrown over these proceedings, by the suggestion of something being done to reclaim these unhappy creatures; but in this country the Government assumed no cloak of decency or morality by proposing anything for their benefit. It was simply a Bill for keeping public women at the public expense for the gratification of our soldiers and sailors. No useful or moral end was intended, the end in view being vice—unmitigated vice—the administration of the army and navy being so inefficient, that Government was obliged to propose this Bill for the sustentation of vice. Such a proposal was a disgrace to the country, and if the Bill passed he should regard it as his duty, when addressing a popular audience, to tell them that taxes were wrung from them for the
 816
 MR. GRANT  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If he considers the late inquiry into the loss of the  London
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  remarked, that the whole discussion showed how necessary it was that some one authority should be left to decide these things. He trusted that hon. Gentlemen who took that view would support him in a Motion he proposed to bring before the House with reference to the subject.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , in the name of the architects who did him the honour to appoint him the President of their Institute, thanked the hon. Member for bringing forward the Motion, which was one rightly made by a Member who was independent in the sense of having no connection with architecture, and which, therefore, neither he nor the hon. Member for Bath (Mr. Tite)
 778 779 780 781 "As regards the necessary drawings for a competition, it is certainly a great drawback to all
 782 "I may say that I should certainly have accepted but for two reasons—first, the shortness of time. There will be, I understand, from sixty to seventy drawings required. These sixty or seventy drawings will have to be got up within some eight months from the present time—that is, an average of about four days to each drawing. In addition, the whole subject has to be got up, which always takes more time than the mere drawing. I therefore think that the time is far too short, and near a year, at least, should have been allowed to the other competitors. The second objection is the absence from among the judges of professional men." à priori 783
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I rise for the purpose of bringing before the House, as briefly as possible, what would appear to be a great grievance, and of making inquiry of the Secretary for War in reference to it. Though this grievance has been experienced by persons of a very humble position, I am sure the House of Commons will not attend to it less on that account, and it affects a considerable class of Her Majesty's subjects. The facts of the case are these:—Some years ago a Buckinghamshire lad, by name Sadler, enlisted into Her Majesty's service, and shortly afterwards was ordered to India. In August, 1863, his father, who was an agricultural labourer, received intimation of the death of his son. It so happened that a very brief time before this intimation reached the father he received a letter from his son, written not at all in the contemplation of approaching death, for he was not even suffering from any illness: the son informed him that he had deposited £15 in the military savings bank. It was, therefore, very natural that the father, on receiving the sad announcement of his son's death, should make some effort to obtain the money; and he therefore wrote to the Department over which the noble Lord (the Marquess of Hartington) presides. For some considerable time he received no
 737 s. d., s. d., 738
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I must express my deep regret that my noble Friend at the head of the War Department (the Marquess of Hartington) is not in his place to reply to the Questions which have been put by the right hon. Gentleman opposite. The subject, I may add, has been brought on out of the ordinary course of the business for the evening, as set down in the Notice Paper; and even if my noble Friend were present he could hardly give an immediate answer to the statements of the right hon. Gentleman, inasmuch as he could only address the House once on the Motion before it, and the next subject for discussion also relates to matters connected with the War Department, on which he would have to; speak. I, of course, can offer no satisfactory explanation as to a case with the
 739
 MR. DISRAELI : The right hon. Gentleman, owing, no doubt, to some fault of mine, has entirely misapprehended my statement. There was no controversy in this case as to the title to the property. The War Office recognized the title by making two remittances. The savings bank books, I may add, necessarily remain in the hands of the Government. A peasant in Bucks could not well have in his possession the savings bank books of a soldier in India. The books, and all the other property of the man were, directly he died, taken into the hands of the authorities in India, by whom and the War Office the disposal of the assets is effected.
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise, Sir, to order. I understood the right hon. Baronet to disclaim the use of the words of which my right hon. Friend complains in the sense which my right hon. Friend attributes to them. I distinctly understood the right lion. Baronet to state to the House that the words he used were of a general application, and in that case I have no doubt that my right hon. Friend will see that no charge in reality is made againt him.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was hardly possible this subject could be discussed then with the fulness which would he desirable. His noble Friend, in proposing the second reading of the Bill, had merely proposed the continuation of a system which had received the sanction of Parliament. Neither his noble Friend nor Her Majesty's Government was desirous of flinching from a full consideration of the numerous difficulties by which this matter was surrounded; and the noble Lord had announced bis intention, at the proper time, to propose that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. It would be desirable that those gentlemen who had charged themselves with the painful duty of looking into this question should serve on that Committee. The object of the Government was to have all the assistance on the subject which the intelligence and impartial judgment of Parliament could afford. They wished the matter to be examined free from prejudice of any kind. He therefore, hoped there would be no objection to having the Bill read a second time.
 MR. NEATE  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, When the River Commission are likely to make their Report, and whether they are not now prepared, if called upon, to make a Special Report on the River Thames; and whether it is not desirable that they should be called upon to do so, as that River is now the subject of legislation in this House?
 MR. NEWDEGATE : I desire to know what is the estimate of the number of voters that will be added to the County constituencies?
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he wished to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer a Question arising out of the statement made by him with reference to the Reform Bill. He wished to ask, Whether it is the intention of the Government to give a qualification to Copyholders and Leaseholders within Cities and Boroughs, or within Counties or Divisions of Counties
 735
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to a point of order. According to the rules of the House, Motions on going into Committee of Supply should be brought in regular succession, in the order in which they stood on the Notice Paper. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Bucks, however, interfered with that arrangement by bringing on before any of those Motions were disposed of a subject with respect to which there was on the Paper no notice whatsoever, and the hon. Member for Devonport (Mr. Ferrand), who had announced it to be his intention to bring on another question on the Motion for going into Committee of Supply, had been entrapped into sacrificing the privilege of doing so, inasmuch as he had already spoken once. It was productive of great
 740
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  said, he thought it somewhat curious that the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside), and the hon. and learn-
 770 The Irish People 771 772
 MR. BENTINCK , in rising to move that in the opinion of this House it is not expedient that the competition for the building of the New Courts of Justice should be limited to six architects only, said, that if he wanted an excuse for taking up this question it might he found in the fact that he was a Member of the Committee which sat upon the Law Courts in 1860. He might also allege in excuse the petition which had been presented by an hon. Friend of his (Mr. Beresford Hope) in the name of that illustrious body the Institution of British Architects against the Government proposal. Now, either from the want of commanding architectural talent or from some other cause which he could not pretend to state, competitions in matters of this kind had become a necessity. For the last few years at least, whenever great works were about to be executed either in England or on the Continent, the competitions invited for designs were generally of an unlimited character. The competition for the Houses of Parliament was unlimited; so were the competitions for the Cartoons, for the Foreign Office, and for the Wellington Monument. Nor had the result of these competitions been otherwise than successful. No man could say, however he might condemn the style of the Palace of Westminster, that Sir Charles Barry was not a man of great ability. The unlimited competition for the Cartoons had brought out the talents of Mr. Herbert, of Mr. Watts, and of many other artists; while in the case of the Foreign Office the result had been equally satisfactory. Unlimited competitions could not therefore, from any of these instances, be said to have operated prejudicially to art. He would not quarrel with limited competition if the three following conditions were attached to it:—First, that the number of architects competing should he sufficient to afford to the tribunal which was to decide on their merits a full latitude of choice; secondly, that that tribunal should he thoroughly protected from any charge of favouritism; and thirdly, that its members should have such a knowledge of the subject that their decision should command the respect, not of artists only, but of the artistic world in general. The arrangement with regard to the proposed competition for the New Courts of Justice failed in every one of those particulars. First of all, there were to be only six competing artists. In the days of Sir
 776 777
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, they had heard very eloquent speeches to-night from the Attorney and Solicitor General for Ireland, hut the only thing they appear to have proved to the House was that things were done differently in Ireland from what they would be in any other country in the world. The House had been told that a seditious newspaper called  The Irish People coup
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  remarked, that by the course the Government had taken they had excluded the architect who took a prize for the Foreign Office.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON) : I am quite aware of that. The right, hon. Gentleman; was not engaged in these proceedings. He had no personal knowledge of them, and all his information was derived from reading the newspapers. He told the House with great pomp that Stephens was committed to Her Majesty's prison—by which he conveyed to the House that the Richmond Prison at Dublin is under Her Majesty's control, and that Her Majesty could order anything she pleased to be done it that prison. My right hon. Friend ought to be aware that that prison, like others of its class, is governed by a Board of Superintendence, and that it was under their rules and by-laws. It is the legal prison for persons taken into custody for offences committed in Dublin, and Colonel Lake had no right to keep Stephens in his custody. He could not supersede the
 755 756 757
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON) : It would he idle for me, Sir, to attempt to follow the right hon. Gentleman through the very long statement with which he has favoured the House upon a very small matter—["Oh, oh!"]—small. I mean, in point of relative importance. The event of which he calls for an explanation—namely, the escape of Stephens—occurred in November last; but the right hon. Gentleman has commenced with the year 1848, and has given the House a long narrative of events from that time down to the present. The right hon. Gentleman is always amusing, always entertaining, and never more so, I think, than when he gives range to his fertile imagination, as he has done to a great extent upon this occasion; because the transactions which he has been narrating are based upon hearsay, and not upon personal knowledge, and a great many of them, I am in a position to state, rest upon no solid foundation. The right hon. Gentleman began by commenting on the policy which led, he says, to these sad events. He brings forward no definite charge against the executive Government of having failed in their duty; but he takes the opportunity of moving for papers in relation to a particular transaction to bring charges and insinuations against the conduct of the executive Government, and announces his intention of calling attention on a future occasion to the policy of the Government as having led to those lamentable events. Now the Government, I beg to tell him, challenges inquiry into that policy. The right hon. Gentleman stated that he had been waiting for the close of the prosecutions; but I must remind the House that the Special Commission at which those men were tried concluded early in the month of February, and Parliament has been sitting from that time to the present, yet the right hon. Gentleman has brought forward no Motion impeaching the conduct of the executive Government in relation to the proceedings:—if ever he does so, the Government will be prepared to meet him. Sir, the
 752 The Irish People, 753 The Irish People 754
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, in reply to the hon. Member's first Question, he had to state that a careful investigation was made in the case of every person arrested under the Act, and no person was retained in custody unless the Government were clearly satisfied that he had been actively engaged in promoting the objects of that conspiracy. In his opinion it would have a very bad effect indeed if they were to release upon bail the persons who were so engaged, and to permit them to travel through the country carrying on their do signs. With regard to finding bail those persons would have no difficulty in doing that, because it would only be necessary for them to indemnify the sureties for any breach of their recognizances. But if amongst those in custody there were persons who had come from America to pro mote the objects of the association, he would be disposed to give a very favourable consideration to any application which they might make if they wished to leave Ireland and to return to the place they came from With respect to the lion. Member's second Question, as to a search in the Catholic Cathedral at Armagh, he (Mr.Lawson) had written to Ireland for full information on that subject, and directed that it should be procured He had not yet, however, received it, and if the hon. Gentleman would be good enough to repeat his Question he should be in a position to give him the fullest information on the matter. [The O'DONOGHUE: To morrow?] He could not answer for that, but thought it was extremely likely. With respect to the hon. Gentleman's third
 734
 MR. WHITESIDE : Those persons to whom my right hon. Friend refers did ask me to defend them; but I declined to do so, because I had prosecuted them before.
 MR. WHITESIDE , in rising to call attention to the circumstances of the escape of Mr. Stephens from Richmond prison, and to move for Papers, said: Sir, the subject on which I wish to address the House for a short time relates to the escape of Stephens from Her Majesty's gaol at Richmond, in which he was detained. It is not my intention to enter into the large and general question which awaits discussion, as to the
 741 742 "It further appears that the members of this treasonable confederacy have bound themselves by oath to carry out their designs; but no trace of pass-words or secret signs has been discovered. The earliest fact which has been ascertained appears to be that a person, named Stephens, and who was also known by the soubriquet of 'Shuke,' and who was implicated in the insurrectionary movement of 1848, was in this country last summer, and that he traversed the localities mentioned, organizing this society, and giving to certain persons the form of oath which they were to administer to others for the purpose of extending the operations of the society." "I, A. B., do solemnly declare, in the presence of God, to renounce all allegiance to the Queen of England, and do my utmost endeavours, at every risk, to make Ireland an independent democratic Republic; and that I shall take up arms and fight, at a moment's warning, and shall yield implicit obedience to the commands of my superiors; and that I will preserve inviolable secrecy with regard to brotherhood; and finally, I take this oath without any mental reservation—so help mo God." "Dear Sir,—I am ever ready to do my utmost to promote the cause and achieve the reality of nationality; I am, therefore, your servant in any undertaking to obtain that result; but I differ with some sentiment expressed in the seventh paragraph of your prospectus, inasmuch as I do not believe that the Saxon will ever relax his grasp except by the persuasion of cold lead and steel. No, never! cold steel: to that it must come at last, nor quake to hear it spoken; by the blow alone which we strike can the chains of the despot be broken; and, if I take the liberty to offer another remark, I would say that too much is said
 743 "It appears that a person, who I deeply lament to say has escaped the hands of justice, who was known by the name of 'Shuke,' but whose real name was Stephens, appeared about a year ago in this county, sometimes in Skibbereen, sometimes in Bantry, sometimes in Kenmare, sometimes at Killarney. He is described as one of the patriots of 1848, and therefore more qualified than another to guide the movement of 1858. I will prove that this man Stephens was the person through whom it was understood the Americans would come over to Ireland, aided by the French, to conquer the country; that the conspirators were to have money from America and soldiers from France. This man 'Shuke' you will find constantly referred to as the person through whom foreign aid was to be obtained, and that bears directly on the overt acts laid in the indictment." 744 The Irish People, 745 The Irish People. 746 "They had heard a great deal about a person named James Stephens, and he thought there could remain little doubt in the mind of any one that lie was the heart and soul of this confederacy; that he was even the prime mover—that he was, in fact, its great executive officer; and as it struck him that those who were acting in America, even J. O'Muhoney himself, were acting under the suggestions and under the control of this very James Stephens." The Irish People 747 748 749 750 751
 MR. WHITESIDE : I must call the right hon. Baronet to order, and request Mr. Deputy Speaker, that the words which have just been uttered may be taken down. I understood the right hon. Baronet to say that the statement which I made was a mean and paltry one, and I request that you, Sir, will state whether such language is Parliamentary or not.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I again rise to order, Sir, and must still request, that the right hon. Baronet will conform to the usages of the House. I still require your decision upon the expression used by the right hon. Baronet—an expression employed not in the sense just stated, but conveying the opinion that what I said was mean and paltry. ["No, no!" I still wish to know, Sir, whether such language is Parliamentary.
 MR. WHITESIDE  again appealed to the Chair, whether the right lion. Baronet's words were not un-Parliamentary.
 MR. GEORGE  said, the right hon. and learned Member who had just sat down (Mr. Lawson) had attempted to show that the Conspiracy of 1859 and the present disturbances were utterly unconnected; but, as one who had been engaged in the trials which took place at the former dale, he (Mr. George) ventured to differ altogether from the right hon. and learned Member on this point. The conspiracy which existed at the present time under the name of Fenianism was identical with that which existed in 1859 under the name of the Phœnix Conspiracy. Many of the witnesses who were examined on the trials in 1859 referred expressly to Stephens, under the name of Shuke or Power. It was then stated that aid in men and money was expected from America—he was speaking in the presence of the Solicitor General for Ireland, to whose candour he appealed to corroborate his statement—the only difference between the Conspiracy of 1859 and that of the present time was a difference of degree. At that time a large number of Irish emigrants went to America, many of whom entertained bad feelings towards this country, and they openly expressed a desire to return and aid in getting up a treacherous conspiracy in Ireland. The Conspiracy of 1859, therefore, was identical with that now in existence, only the latter had attained a greater power and strength in consequence of the hundreds and thousands of men who had
 758 "That the Crown might thank itself for the acquittal through having allowed those two men to go into the jury box who were no better than the prisoners themselves." 759 760
 MR. LOCKE  said, the arguments of his hon. Friend the Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) led only to the conclusion that the competition should be altogether open. ["No, no!"] Hon. Gentlemen said "No, no!" That, however, was his opinion, and he was about giving his reasons for it. His hon. Friend had highly commended the Houses of Parliament; but would Sir Charles Barry have been one of the six or ten chosen out of the host of known and unknown architects if the course adopted then had been the same as the course it was proposed to adopt in the case under consideration? Most certainly not, because he was then unknown. It was reasonable to suppose that some unknown man might send in a design far superior to those of any of the six or ten it was proposed to nominate. The corporation of London had acted wisely in having open competition among would be designers for their dead-meat market. If an open competition were thought necessary in so unimportant a case as that, how much more necessary must it be in a case where Courts of Justice were to be designed; for no court ever yet built had pleased all who had business to transact within it. The competition for the Houses of Parliament was sufficiently open to please all. The whole British nation had an opportunity of expressing an opinion upon it, and the choice was unanimous. He recommended that it should be as open in the case under consideration it was reasonable to hope that the result would be equally satisfactory.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, he was somewhat astonished to learn that the Government should have deemed it to he consistent with their duty to allow  The Irish People, 773 The Irish People
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, the inquiry was so far satisfactory that every one who could give any information and who was competent to form an opinion as to the cause of the loss of the  London London
 MR. WENTWORTH BEAUMONT  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, having regard to the additional cost of Parliamentary contests arising from the proposed increase of Electors, Government will introduce Clauses in their Reform Bill—1. To render illegal the conveyance of Voters to the Poll at the expense of candidates, and to multiply polling-places; 2. To defray out of local rates certain Election charges connected with Returning Officers, Polling Places, &c., and generally to reduce the costs of contests?
 MR. FERRAND  said, that he had not the slightest idea that his right hon. Friend was about to bring forward the subject to which he had just called attention, but he would now take occasion to say that a similar instance had come under his own; notice. A short time ago a widow in a village near where he resided received a I letter from her son stating that he was travelling down the coast with his discharge on his way home; adding that he I had saved £30 or £40, which he had placed in a savings bank, and with which he hoped to start in some trade and contribute to her support. The next account of him, however, which reached her was conveyed through a paper which was forwarded to her from the army agent in London, authorizing her to receive a sum of about 20 s.,
 MR. TITE  said, he had been appealed to once or twice in the course of the debate, and more out of the House than in it, in consequence, he supposed, of having once occupied some position in the profession, and of having filled the office of President of the Institute of British Architects, in which his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke-upon-Trent (Mr. Beresford Hope) had followed him. He supposed he was the only man in that House who had gone through a public competition of a somewhat
 790 ductus utriusque tinguœ, 791
 MR. POWELL  quite agreed that the first object of the Commission should be to select the best man, and when this had been done they should insist on his devoting to the work his best faculties and energy, at the same time supporting him with their countenance and kindly courtesy. There was great difficulty attending a work of such magnitude, on account of the details. In the case of the Houses of Parliament, the designs were under consideration for a long time, and then four architects were appointed, from which a selection was to be made. But the work now contemplated was of a much more complex character. In the case of the Houses of Parliament no estimates were required, and no one could tell their ultimate cost; and, consequently, there arose a controversy between Sir Charles Barry and the Government on the subject of commission, which must have been very painful to both parties. He thought there could not be a doubt that 5 per cent was a high commission for such a sum as £750,000; but there was a good deal to be done by the architect during the progress of a building, and much must be left to the architect's honour. It had been suggested to him that the better plan was to pay the archi-
 788
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  apprehended, that although Parliament might delegate to certain parties to perform certain duties, it was always open to the House to interpose, and express its opinion if those duties were not performed in a manner consistent with the public interests, and that was especially the case with regard to the expenditure of public money. With respect to the question of competition, his own opinion was favourable to unlimited competition, for which so many precedents could be found in this country, for it gave an opportunity to unknown men of showing their capabilities, gave a general stimulus to talent, and was advantageous to the cultivation of taste in the nation. Considering the great number of able architects in the metropolis he thought the number of competitors ought not to be limited to six. He thought the practice of requiring or accepting very elaborate plans of buildings was a bad one. The production of such plans required a great deal of time, and the Government had to compensate unsuccessful candidates for their labour. A ground plan showing the distribution of the different parts of the building, and plans showing the distribution of the different chambers and stories, with sections and elevations, ought to be quite sufficient. If they asked more they did mischief. There were instances of architects who had withdrawn from competition because they had not time to finish drawings of an elaborate character. It was most desirable that some practical man should define the exact nature of the drawings to be sent in; and
 789
 SIR GEORGE GREY : After the protracted discussion which has taken place, and after the complete answers which have been given by my learned Friends the Attorney and Solicitor General for Ireland to the charges against the Government as to the escape of Stephens, there is only one part of the subject with respect to which I feel bound to say a few words. The hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. S. B. Miller) has brought a direct charge against the Government for not having sooner interfered, and he expressed his opinion that the Government were to blame for not having instituted a prosecution against  The Irish People 774
 MR. HIBBERT  said, that having been on the Committee for the erection of the Assize Court at Manchester, he wished to say a few words. The competition for the design of that Court was open to all the world, and the result was that they had
 796
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT : Can you state the number of clerks employed?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Having, Sir, before the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire rose, qualified the expression which I used, I do not think it necessary to enter further into that point. Still, I thought the right hon. and learned Gentleman's charge that the prosecutions were postponed until after the general election was not worthy of him. But I wish to refer to a few points to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman alluded. He said he did not wish to anticipate a future debate that was likely to take place in this House on the Fenian conspiracy. Now, I am sure that the Government do not shrink from meeting the fullest investigation and discussion of their conduct in regard to this whole subject, and I should say that the sooner the subject is brought forward the hotter. Let the right hon. Gentleman therefore give notice of his intention to bring forward after Easter his accusations against the Government, I am convinced we shall be able to lay before the House a case that will not only exculpate the Government from the charges which the right hon. Gen-t Ionian and the hon. and learned Member for Wexford have made against them, but that will prove that the Government have acted with great judgment, discretion, and firmness in the manner in which they have performed their duty. The right hon. Gentleman said that this prison was Her Majesty's prison. My right hon. Friend (the Attorney General for Ireland) showed that these prisoners were confined in the city gaol, that that goal was under the superintendence of the City Board, that there were local Inspectors, and Inspector Generals to report to the Government any oc-
 763 The Irish People 764 ex parte 765 766
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Until the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) rose I was not aware that I should be called upon to address the House upon this Motion; but, as it will be in the recollection of the House that the right hon. Gentleman alluded in pointed terms to the position which I lately occupied in Ireland, I may perhaps be permitted to say a few words. I am glad that my remarks follow those which foil from the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Wexford (Mr. George), because I have, through the hon. and learned Gentleman, the assurance from the Law
 761
 SIR ROBERT PEEL , Before an answer is given to the question of the right hon. Gentleman, I may, perhaps, be permitted to say that my statement was that the charge made by the right hon. Gentleman, that the Government had postponed action in a matter involving matters of such magnitude until the general election should have been got over, is a mean and paltry way of dealing with a grave and serious question. I put it to the House whether I am not justified in using expressions of that kind. Now—
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, that his right hon. and gallant Friend General Peel, and the hon. Gentleman who had last spoken (Mr. O'Reilly), had commented on the fallacies which they thought they had detected in connection with these apparent reductions; but still there remained one fallacy that had not been noticed. It was to be found in Vote 18 itself. The apparent foundation of the claim for reduction was to be found in the reduction of the salaries for clerks; but they were not informed as to the number and grade of the clerks who were employed. They were only told that the sum to he taken for clerks of various classes was £109,000; but it ought to be stated what was the number of first-class clerks, what was the number of second-class clerks, and so forth. Under the system of promotion followed in a public office, when a gentle man was promoted from one class to another he entered the higher class at the minimum salary of that class. One of these clerks of the higher class received from £670 to £800 a year; and if they pensioned off one who received £800, and engaged another at the £670 scale, they; thereby for the time saved £130. By pensioning off a large number of the higher paid—the first-class clerks—they might in that way effect a considerable temporary and apparent saving; but, of course, that reduction would disappear again by that process of gradual increase which they always found would go on. It would be more
 802
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  stated, that the item for travelling expenses was very large, and that he would like to know the cause of the increased expenditure under this head.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, that the two 15-ton guns had been ordered at the request of the Admiralty. The Secretary of the Admiralty would be able to state in what ships they were intended to be used. Lord De Grey and the Duke of Somerset considered that the merits of the Whitworth system of construction and rifling had been sufficiently tested and established in the trials which were made by the Armstrong and Whitworth Committee to justify them in ordering a further practical trial on board Her Majesty's ships, In the present stage of the question fur-
 839
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the intention of the Government is to proceed on the 9th of April with the Civil Service Estimates, ns is the usual practice on the first day after the Easter recess. On the 12th, as I have already announced, we are to proceed with the second reading of the Franchise Bill; and after the second reading of that Bill we propose to take the Budget. Probably
 840
 MR. BARING , in reply, said, the measures taken by the Commissioners of Police to inquire into the character and qualifications of persons making application for the licences of drivers of hackney carriages were very strict. The candidate first had to send in an application stating several points respecting his character and qualifications. He had to produce a certificate signed by two ratepayers who had personally known him for three years, stating their opinion of his character and his fitness for such employment. He had also to present a certificate from his last employer, vouching that he was competent to act as the driver of a hackney carriage, and that he knew the town well. All these papers were referred to a sergeant of police, who then made inquiry into the character and qualifications of the applicant; and not until all these inquiries had taken place was the licence given by the Commissioners of Police. Of course, with the enormous number of licences of that description which had to he given from time to time there might be individual cases in which the person appointed might not be completely qualified.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I have caused inquiry to be made at the Foreign Office with reference to the subject of the hon. Gentleman's Question, and the answer made to me is that on a careful search of the papers in that Office, no trace can be found of any discussions having been raised on this matter during the time that Mr. Chase
 841
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Sir Hugh Owen), he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, When it is likely the re-organization of the Royal Engineer Department, referred to in the foot note on page 158, of the Army Estimates for 1866–7, will take place?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that he was not able to state exactly at what period the re-organization of the Royal Engineer Department would take place. The matter involved two separate questions of great importance—namely, the pay of the Engineer officers and the pay of the officers of the Department of Works. The financial portion of the Question were now under consideration, and he hoped it would be settled before the next year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, there is no information whatsoever at the command of the Government which would enable them to make an estimate on the subject to which my noble Friend refers. I may add that in our opinion we have prosecuted the investigation with respect to the proportion of the working classes on the register quite far enough, and we think it is not desirable to widen the field of that inquiry. The information which we have got we look upon as of great value, and we consider that the continuance of those inquiries would lead to an entirely wrong estimate of the feelings with which we regard the admission of the working classes to the franchise. There is, however, one element of information which does not touch the artizan voters directly, although I cannot say that we are going to lay, with regard to that, any estimate on the table. It is, at the same time, a matter of some interest, and a calculation in connection with it may be made by any hon. Member for himself or by the Government for the use of Members. It is this, that various Returns having been made at different periods showing the number of the respective classes of borough voters, and that, taking the number of £10 voters that existed at the time when each of those Returns was made, a comparison might be instituted between them and the growth of the population. As to the proportion which those £10 artizan voters bear to the population, that is a matter which any hon. Gentleman may estimate for himself on the basis of the recent Returns. I endeavoured as well as I could to estimate the number, but I had not the necessary means for doing so, because no inquiry with reference to the number of artizan voters was made up to that period. I have heard—I must not pretend to give my noble Friend any official information—
 845
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : All £10 householders.
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Poor Law Board. Whether his attention has been drawn to a statement in one of the public journals of the 6th of March, containing an account of the horrible state of the sleeping places for the Casual Poor, and also of the cellar for the extra Casuals, in the Clerkenwell Workhouse, in which, besides other horrors too shocking to mention, it is stated that on
 "Sunday evening (March 4th), forty men and women were crammed together into wards with nominal accommodation for thirty, and, having been locked up in the dark, were left to scramble or fight for room, as they thought fit;"
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, If he was that evening in a position to answer the Question which he (The O'Donoghue) had put to him the day before in reference to a search which was said to have been made for arms in the Roman Catholic Cathedral at Armagh?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in rising to move that the House at its rising adjourn to Monday, the 9th of April, I think it may be convenient, in reference to the course of business after the Recess, that I should state the view which the Government take of some important notices placed on the paper of the House, and particularly—not for the purpose of argument, but for the purpose of information to the House—particularly with regard to the notice of my hon. Friend the Member for Bridgwater (Mr. Kinglake). That notice is in the form of a notice of a Question to be put to me—the hon. Member has given notice of his intention to ask me, "Whether in the course of the Easter recess the Government will take into consideration the expediency of proceeding by Resolutions, towards a settlement of the questions relating to the Representation of the People." In answer to my hon. Friend, I have to say that, the Government having introduced a Bill for the purpose of dealing with the franchise in England and Wales, our intention is to persevere with that Bill, and that we do not intend to proceed by way of Resolution. The next Notice of Motion relates to an Amendment to be proposed on the second reading of the Bill by my noble Friend the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor). With respect to that Motion, I would simply say—speaking of the Mover and the Motion in different senses, for no
 852 "That it is not expedient to go into Committee on the said Bill, until this House shall have before it the expected Bill for the re-distribution of seats." 853
 EARL GROSVENOR : Sir, I am not in one sense surprised at the announcement made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, though I confess I am so in another. I am much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman for the manner in which he has referred to my name in connection with the Motion of which I have given notice; but I have no wish or desire to separate myself in any way from that Resolution, The views of many hon. Members with whom I have the honour to act, as well as my own, on this question, are, that before we legislate on any part of the great Question of Parliamentary Reform it is necessary that we should have before us all the other Bills alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, and that we should consider the Question as a whole. I wish, therefore, to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he still intends to proceed with the second reading of the Franchise Bill before the House shall have an opportunity of considering the other Bills which ho proposes to lay upon the table? [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Unquestionably.] The principle of a Bill is generally considered to be dealt with on the second reading. I believe that the principle of that Bill and the principle of the other Bills are so intimately connected that I cannot myself see that it would be possible or statesmanlike to take the sense of the House on the second reading of the Franchise Bill before the House shall have had an opportunity of considering all those measures and the whole of the proposals relating to the subject; neither do I think the House will consent to such a course as that proposed by Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. KINGLAKE : The noble Lord has just said that the second reading of a Bill is the occasion which Parliament provides for the consideration of its principle. Now, Sir, it is precisely for that reason that I propose the Motion for carrying to a later period of the existence of the Bill the objection to which I refer. The period when you are considering the principle of the Bill is the very last on which you are entitled to approach it by any objection founded on external circum-
 854
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE , on rising to call attention to the "Electoral Statistics" presented to the House, and particularly to the absence of all information respecting copyholders and leaseholders whose property is situate within the limits of Parliamentary cities and boroughs, and to the defective character of the information respecting occupiers in counties whose "gross estimated rental is under £50," said, he made this Motion in the persuasion that if it was desirable that any measure on Parliamentary Reform the House might be called on to adopt should be founded on full and accurate information, the subject of electoral statistics must be regarded as one of considerable importance. The contents of the volume which has been placed in the hands of Members were divided in a somewhat unequal manner. The volume purported to contain the electoral statistics of the boroughs, and of the counties of England and Wales. It consisted of 298 pages, of which 274 were devoted to boroughs; 10 contained references to previous Returns, and only 13 pages were given to the counties. Now, the disproportion was so manifest, that when he first saw that 274 pages were occupied with the boroughs, he asked if there was not another volume for the counties. He did not think it possible that the Government could wish them to suppose that sufficiently full information could be given about all the counties in
 857 858 859 860 Omne ignotum pro magnifico. 861
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : If my hon. and learned Friend who has just spoken (Sir George Bowyer) will refer back to the only successful specimen of legislation in regard to Reform to which I need call his attention—the Reform Act of 1832—he will find that no such preliminary Bill was introduced as that which he has mentioned, and that the House then voted on the general question of the re-distribution of seats without having a Boundary Bill before it. I am of opinion that some examination of boundaries would be necessary before the final adjustment of the whole of the details of that question; but the influence of such an investigation would, after all, I think, be a matter of only secondary importance. If, indeed, the observations of the hon. and learned Baronet have any meaning, their practical result would be that nothing should be said on the subject of the re-distribution of seats in the present year.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I close with my hon. and learned Friend on these terms. And now I may be allowed to refer to what has fallen from the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord Robert Montagu), who rose in his place, and made some remarks as to my right hon. Friend near me (Mr. Villiers) thinking it worth his while to pretend to be the friend of the working man. Would he like, I would ask him, to have such a phrase applied to himself?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Then the noble Lord adheres to the expression, and I am very much disposed to appeal to the Chairman as to whether he is justified in speaking of another Member in those terms. In my opinion those working men to whom he alludes would, if admitted within these walls, set the noble Lord an example of courtesy, would set him an example of good breeding, would set him an example of high breeding, which he might do well to follow. I confess I am astonished that the noble Lord should, on reflection, adopt those words, and if I did not appeal to you, Sir, when he uttered them it is because I thought that he would, when reminded
 873 874
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : The right hon. Gentleman seems to wish to strengthen our moral nature by saying that we ought first to have confidence in the Government passing their Bill, in the hope that after that they will listen to our wishes, I submit to the right hon. Gentleman that there is no use in producing statistics at all if they are not perfect and complete, and such as would really form some reliable ground for estimating the effect of the Government Bill. The right hon. Gentle-| man talked about the class of persons referred to as being our own countrymen and our own flesh and blood, and that, therefore, any measure to enfranchise them must be adopted; but the right hon. Gentleman
 875 876 877
 MR. DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to make a few observations on the subject that had occupied the attention of the House during the greater part of the evening. Her Majesty's Government had brought in a Bill for the reduction of the franchise, but had withheld certain inform-
 885
 LORD ELCHO  said, that, before the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. P. Villiers) replied to the Question, he wished to say a few words, lie thought that the House
 863 "I trust you will excuse the liberty I take in writing to you upon the Reform question. My only reason for troubling you is that no speaker or writer upon the Government Bill has yet dealt sufficiently with the statistics below the £7 rental. If this standard becomes law it is morally certain that no £5 or £6 houses will be built in the future, as a £7 rental will pay better interest of money, being in so much greater request. Every present £6 house will be burnished into a seven-pounder without delay. Even those at £5 will either decline into hovels, or be restored into better than new at £7. I know an owner of cottage property in this borough who has already decided to convert all his into £7 rental if this Bill passes. It is a very simple question; in round figures £7 a year is 2 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 864
 LORD ELCHO  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether any investigation has been made as to the rate of increase of the number of artizan £10 voters in Boroughs, relatively to the other Borough voters not of the artizan class, from 1836 to 1846, 1846 to 1856, 1856 to 1866; whether an estimate has been made of the probable rate of increase of the number of artizan £10 voters in Boroughs, relatively to the other Borough voters not of the artizan class, under the existing Law from 1866 to 1876, 1876 to 1886, 1886 to 1896; whether an estimate has been made of the probable rate of increase of the number of artizan voters in Boroughs relatively to the other Borough voters under the proposed Bill, from 1866 to 1876, 1876 to 1886, 1886 to 1896; whether an estimate has been made of the number of artizans in Boroughs that will
 844
 VISCOUNT ENFIELD : Sir, I have to inform the noble Lord that I have seen the statements to which he has adverted. I have to slate that the casual wards at the Clerkenwell Workhouse have never been certified by the Poor Law Board, because they are inadequate to meet the provisions of the Houseless Poor Act, both as regards their position, their ventilation, and their insufficiency generally. The guardians of the parish of Clerkenwell have attempted to provide a remedy for this state of things, and were, in fact, a few weeks since negotiating for property in St. John Street Road, Clerkenwell, which they purposed converting into casual wards; but eventtually, the owner of the property in question objected to the premises being used for the
 847
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the bow of the  Lord Warden Bellerophon; Lord Warden, Lord Clyde,
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  replied that he could not state the ships on board which it was intended to use the 15-ton 9-inch Whitworth guns.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that there were three vessels which had had their funnels so lengthened—the  Royal Oak, Warrior, Black Prince, Bellerophon,
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  was surprised that the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, who now finds it suits his purpose to pretend to be the friend of the working man, should have repeated the argument which had on a former occasion fallen from the hon. Member for Birmingham, and should state that one good thing in the Government Bill was that it would oblige landlords to improve their houses, so that the labouring class would in future have a £10 instead of a £6 house. [Mr. C. P. VILLIERS: I did not say that.] Well, at all events, he seemed to argue that in boroughs there would, after the passing of the Bill, be £7 instead of £6 houses. But that was, he (Lord Robert Montagu) thought, a matter in which the supply would be governed by the demand. But, be that as it might, he wished to put a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had stated that there were certain ulterior schemes which he proposed to lay, in the shape of dummies, on the table of the House—as to what checks he proposed to place on the increased franchise. By lowering, for instance, the franchise in counties, the present agricultural constituencies would be swamped, but if the various towns were taken out of those counties and grouped with the boroughs by means of a re-distribution of seats, something might be done to mitigate the evils which would thereby be created. The House, therefore, ought, he contended, to be made aware before the second reading of the Franchise Bill in what the whole scheme of the Government really consisted. Because those questions with which they intended to deal will afterwards become really part and parcel of the principle upon which they meant to proceed.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : Certainly, if it could be done with truth.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, By whose authority the following statement was inserted in the public papers of the 28th December, 1865:—
 "The Earl of Clarendon makes public the following information, which he has received from Her Majesty's Consul at Rome, dated November 28th: 'Various bands of brigands have now descended from the Neapolitan territory into the Papal States in such numbers, that the small amount of Papal troops (in the absence of the French) is evidently unable to contend successfully with them;'" "It is officially announced that nearly all the brigands on the Roman territories have surrendered to the Papal authorities"
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would beg to put a Question to Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, with respect to the order of business before the House after Easter?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, the right hon. Gentleman who had just spoken had given an admirable argument against those weekly Returns which the Bank of England was so fond of publishing. To be sure those Returns related only to money and to the solvency of the Bank of England. But when the question was who were to be the people to make the House of Commons, who should constitute the hundreds of thousands of additional constituencies, then demanding Returns, forsooth, was haggling. What were all the Supply nights but haggling? What were the Budget nights but haggling? What was the legitimate jealousy which scrutinized Bills, both public and private—what was that, in the language of the Treasury Bench, but haggling? He made the right hon. Gentleman a present of this "haggling." But it sent hon. Members to the country and to their constituents with unpleasant feelings when they found the Government trying to make use of a mighty force by putting on the  bonnet rouge, 880 Black Book sine quâ non, 881 882
 MR. SHERRIFF  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been directed to a statement reported in the  Birmingham Daily Post,
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the notice to which the hon. Member referred had been inserted in the newspapers on the authority of Lord Clarendon. It was an extract from a despatch received from Her Majesty's Consul at Rome. The hon. Member was doubtless aware that more than one British subject had fallen into the hands of brigands, and Lord Clarendon thought it desirable on receiving that official communication to make it public, as a warning to those British subjects who might be going abroad. If Lord Clarendon had not done so, he would have been open to just reproach. He was not
 842
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he wished to a9k the right hon. Gentleman, if ho has any objection to state to the House whether the Government have received information that the cattle disease had been re-imported from abroad into this country, and, if the statement is authentic, what measures the Government have taken in consequence?
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, it is proverbial that to change your front in the face of an enemy is always a very perilous operation; and I cannot say that I think the course adopted by the Chancellor of the Echequer to-night is an exception to the rule. So far as I can learn from the statement of the right hon. Gentleman, we are much in the same position as we were before—we are called upon to take a leap in the dark. What is objected to in the Amendment of the noble Lord who has recently addressed the House is, I understand, this—that the Government having indulged in very vague and general allusions to a large scheme or schemes of Parliamentary re-construction have favoured us with a definite measure on one portion of it only, and that one which, in the opinion of the noble Lord, and, as I believe, in the opinion of a majority of the House and the country, cannot properly be dealt with unless we had every information as to the other portions of the subject. Well, now, the right hon. Gentleman does not at all pretend that we are to be in any other position than we were when he made his statement. We are to proceed with the Bill respecting the franchise, and we are to be favoured with what he has called the views of the Government on the other questions. True, he says they are to be put in the form of Bills, but they are Bills that are not to be proceeded with. Sir, I think this is trifling with the House. Sir, it is obvious that this great question has been introduced to us by men who have not well considered it; who have changed their opinions constantly during the time it was preparing for the consideration of the House. There is evidence of great inconsistency, of great want of judgment, of great wavering; and, as always happens, timidity and precipitation are nearly allied. The right hon. Gentleman spoke as if he had solved a great difficulty; but the fact is he has not touched it—he has only evaded it—and the House is left in the
 856
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, he rose in consequence of the forms of the House; precluding his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer from answering the Questions more directly put to him by the hon. Member for Lincolnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope). In replying to that hon. Gentleman, he would confine himself strictly to the purpose of his Motion, for he thought the present was not the most convenient occasion for entering into a discussion upon the Reform Bill or into speculations as to its results. He did not think it would be
 867 868 s. 869
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the noble Lord who had just sat down had given them an additional reason for adopting a £7 Franchise Bill. There were two Bills before the House which aimed at providing comfortable dwellings for the working classes, and if a £7 Franchise Bill would have the effect of converting all bad houses into good houses—of making them comfortable, improving them in a sanitary point of view, and rendering them profitable to their owners—then, in a social point of view, the noble Lord had furnished them with one of the best arguments yet brought forward in favour of the Government Bill. He would next refer to the statement that had been made by the hon. Baronet the Member for Ayrshire (Sir James Fergusson); and before doing so he must say it was rather a curious fact that all the Members from Scotland who had yet spoken in respect to this Bill had spoken more or less against it. It was said by the hon. Baronet the Member for Ayrshire that in all the large towns to which he had referred the proposed franchise would more than double the number of voters; but he (Mr. M'Laren) took leave to say that the hon. Baronet had made a great mistake in his calculations. He (Mr. M'Laren) represented a city (Edinburgh) with a population of 170,000; and having heard such statements made before, he had moved for a Return to show the effect that this franchise would have in the city of Edinburgh. He had got a copy of that Return, and it showed that while the present number of voters on the electoral roll was 10,350, there would under a £7 franchise be apparently added—only apparently, for there were deductions to be made—3,600 to the roll. Surely the hon. Baronet would not say that 3,600 were equal to 10,350? It appeared from the proceedings at the last registration for the city of Edinburgh that more than 1,200 persons occupying houses of the value of £10 and upwards were not admitted because they had not resided for the statutory period within the city. That was a deduction of about one-eighth for insufficient residence. None of these were excluded because of the ratepay-
 865
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  said, he had received the permission of the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department, to put a Question
 849
 MR. GOSCHEN : The noble Lord opposite (Viscount Cranbourne) has asked me very pointedly what the custom is in dealing with large financial transactions in the City. I will tell him one rule which we always follow, and that is never to haggle—never, when large financial matters are in question, to think of the shillings and the halfpence. But I need not refer simply to the practice in the City, but to the maxim of which we were recently reminded by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for
 878 De minimis non curat lex. s. 879
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, a Commission was appointed by the Treasury to inquire into the establishment and salaries of the Registry of Deeds Office Dublin. This Commission has made a Report, and has recommended a revision of the salaries and a re-classification of the clerks. This Report is under consideration, but the rates of salary to be fixed, and the time at which such salaries are to commence, have not as yet been finally determined.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. Lawson)  said, he had that very morning received information on the
 848
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. Lawson)  replied that complaints had reached the Irish Government on the subject, and those complaints were, he believed, well founded. He understood that communications had been made to the Commissioners of Public Works on the matter, but beyond that he was not able to give his hon. and learned Friend any definite answer.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord, to give him a reply to that part of his Question which his Colleague, the noble Marquess at the head of the War Department, was unable to answer?
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If it be true that, the War Office has contracted with the Manchester Ordnance Company for two 15-ton 9-inch Whitworth guns, at the rate of £3,000 per gun; and, if so, whether those guns are intended to be used in the armament of the  Royal Sovereign Prince Albert
 MR. LAIRD  said, he would now beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade
 843
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is intended to lengthen or alter the bow of Her Majesty's iron-cased frigate the  Lord Warden; Lord Warden,
 MR. PLATT  desired, as a large employer of labour, to say that he thought the measure of the Government would be-rather too restricted than otherwise as regarded the artizans and the working classes. In his own neighbourhood he em-
 866
 MR. OLIPHANT : After what has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I wish to be permitted to say a few words with reference to the Motion which stands in my name for the 10th of April next. That Motion is for the purpose of collecting data and statistics on which we may determine the question whether a re-distribution of seats and a rearrangement of boundaries are necessary. I gave that notice not from a desire to embarrass Her Majesty's Government, but to draw forth a clear and distinct assurance that a Bill for the re-distribution of seats is regarded by them as an essential part of a scheme of Reform. After what has fallen from my right hon. Friend I am satisfied that want of time, and want of time alone, is the reason why the other Bills could not be brought in at the same time with the Franchise Bill, as stated in the speech of
 855
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  congratulated the House and the country upon the altered and more frank tone which had characterized the discussion. The atmosphere around the great Reform question had been singularly cleared during this discussion, and the country would fully appreciate the change that had taken place. Hitherto hon. Members opposite, not content with calling themselves the friends of the working man had even professed themselves to be his sole friends; and they had gone so far as to charge the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Wolverhampton (Mr. Villiers), who had done so much to procure the repeal of the Corn Laws they had themselves so long upheld, with pretending to take an interest in the labouring classes. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had been blamed for talking
 884
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, Whether the Irish Government have been made aware of the repeated complaints of the Judge of the Probate Court in Dublin, and the Profession and Jurors attending that Court, as to its insufficiency and unwholesome condition; and, whether the Irish Government have considered their complaints, and have taken or recommended, or intend to take or recommend, any steps to remedy these inconveniences?
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether any decision has been come to on the Memorial of Clerks in the Registry of Deeds Office in Dublin for an increase of their salaries; and, if such salaries are to be increased, from what time such increase is to be computed and paid, and what is to be the future minimum salary of a clerk in that Office?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any, and if so what, steps are taken to insure the fitness and competency of persons applying for licences as drivers of hackney carriages?
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he wished to know, whether the right hon. Gentleman can state the particular locality from which the diseased cows came?
 MR. LOWE  said, he wished to know whether, as cattle had been introduced into this country from Holland, and taken from the place of importation, not to be slaughtered, but to dairies, the Government will take into consideration the propriety of
 851
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, The names of all the Iron-clad Ships which have had their funnels temporarily lengthened previous to trial, the length so added, and how soon removed after trial; and whether it is intended to try the  Bellerophon
 MR. WALPOLE : Does the answer of the right hon. Gentleman refer to £10 householders generally, embracing those above that amount?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Some alterations, Sir, have been made from time to time in the rules concerning the qualifications of masters and mates. Those alterations have been suggested by experience. The examination papers shall be laid on the table, and in a form which will show the changes and additions that have taken place. In answer to the second Question of the hon. Gentleman as to whether persons having only served in small coasters receive certificates of competency, entitling them to command large full-rigged ships, I have to state that such a practice would be contrary to our rules, and if cases have occurred they have been accidental.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he thought the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Ferrand) was not justified in using the language with which he had concluded his speech. He had not the slightest intention to be disrespectful to the hon. Member. He had himself sat and listened to him, but it was not in his power to command the attendance of other hon. Members. In reply to the observations of the hon. Gentleman, he begged to state that the Government were as much alive to the importance of the question as he could be, but it was admitted on all sides that considerable difficulties existed in framing clauses in an Act which should be applicable in all cases. They had, however, introduced a Bill referring all existing reservoirs in which power was given to the Board of Trade to cause inspection to take place either with or without complaint being made, and to order repairs when necessary. The Bill also contained other provisions which it was believed would render the reservoirs of the country more secure than they now were. The best course would be for the hon. Member to allow the Bill to be read a second time, and then to introduce in Committee such clauses as he should think would render the operation of the Bill more perfect.
 MR. FERRAND  called the attention of the House to the continued dangerous state of existing Public Waterworks Reservoirs; to the fact that no provision has hitherto been made by Parliament to retain a future supply of spring water for the in habitants of the districts from which the watersprings have been taken away; that the rights of landowners and farmers have been entirely disregarded, and the public health injured by the sources of rivers being withdrawn without sufficient compensating Reservoirs. The hon. Member was understood to say that since these waterworks reservoirs were first constructed upwards of 400 lives had been
 886 887
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, he was glad to have from the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Beresford Hope) such a manifestation of loyal attachment to the Reform Bill of 1832. The great complaint which had been made with regard to these statistics was that they did not give exact information about all who were at present excluded, but only of those whom the Government hoped to include. Now, he agreed with his right hon. Friend the Member for the City of London (Mr. Goschen) that if they were to give such exact information about those who were excluded they might expect that class to require similar information about the included. He thought the Government had gone quite as far as they ought, to have gone in this matter; and some measure of injustice had rather been done to the artizan class by representing them to be less entirely excluded than they really were. He could conceive nothing more impolitic, not with reference to the interests of the Government and the Liberal party, but of the country, than an attempt to characterize and distinguish between the included and excluded from the franchise. Did hon. Gentlemen opposite desire to know the individual character of these men? Did they want to know what they would do under any circumstances? Did they want to know not only how much money they earned, but how they spent it? They had no right to go into these questions with regard to any class of their fellow-subjects. Would not the excluded be tempted to make similar inquiries with regard to those who had the elective franchise? Would they not ask how many voters there might be who were under the influence of their landlords? Would it be advantageous to go into questions of that kind: Hon. Members opposite sometimes talked of the impropriety of setting class against class. He could conceive nothing more likely to have the effect than the course which was now being pursued by hon. Gentlemen on the other side—treating the working class as enemies to the Constitution, and prying into the mode in which they would use the franchise if given to them—in fact, forcing them to do what he believed they never would otherwise do—to bind themselves into a class, and as a class act for class purposes. As a class, he believed they were least of all likely to act together for any special purpose; but hon. Gentlemen
 883
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, if it were possible to lay the Order of Council upon the table of the House that evening, so that it might be placed in the hands of hon. Members?
 MR. WATKIN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chanceller of the Exchequer, If any discussions have taken place between Her Majesty's Government and the Government of the United States in reference to the proposal of Mr. Chase to establish an International Coinage between England, France, and the United States of America?
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  contended that there was another Bill which it was expedient should be laid on the table before the House went into Committee on the Franchise Bill, and that was a Boundary Bill, without having which before them it would be impossible to deal with the question of the re-distribution of seats. It was evident that a Boundary Bill might alter the whole question of the re-distribution of seats. Because those places which without a change of boundary might be disfranchised might not be disfranchised, if addition to their boundaries were made. He hoped, therefore, that a complete Boundary Bill as well as a Re-
 872
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER : That might be the consequence, but it is not the meaning.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that that question had been referred to by the Committee moved for by his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that he could not.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that it would only under certain circumstances. With respect to markets, the regulations would not apply to sheep, unless the sheep had been brought into the same market with cattle, and then they would be subject to the same restrictions.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that that was prohibited at present. No cattle imported into London could be taken beyond the metropolitan district. That provision would be continued by the Order.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that it would be not competent to move any of them without licence.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied, that it was impossible to place the Orders on the table now, but they would be published in the  Gazette
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the day before yesterday information was received that several milch cows had been recently imported from Holland, and not taken to a market, but removed directly from the place of disembarkation to dairy sheds in London, several of which were found to be affected by the disease. Simultaneously with that information the Government received a despatch from Her Majesty's Minister at the Hague, stating that the disease wag prevailing to a great extent in Holland, and that it was believed some animals suspected to be affected with the disease were being sent to this country. An Order in Council would be passed prohibiting, unti the Order should be revoked, the importation into this country of cattle from Holland.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, the Orders referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman were very long, and he was, therefore, afraid, as he had only a few minutes before received notice that the Question was about to be put, that he could not give to it so complete an answer as he should desire. He might, however, state that the purport of the new Order was the revocation of all the existing Orders, with the view to the consolidation of the whole of the existing regulations in one document. Many of the conditions contained in the existing Orders would be re-enacted, as for example those having reference to the appointment of inspectors, and to the notice required to be given of the appearance of the disease in any district, and to the disinfection of premises in which diseased cattle had been. It was desirable that a good many regulations of that description now in force should be renewed, and the Order would contain new provisions with regard to the proclamation of infected districts and the prohibition of all markets and fairs, except those held under the licence of the Privy Council. With respect to the removal of cattle, it was intended to extend the provisions of the existing Act until the 16th of April, and after that date to substitute a regulation, authorizing the removal of cattle by railway or by highway under licences, some of which would be left to be framed by the local authorities, and others would be contained in a schedule. There would be other provisions, which he need not now enumerate. It was intended that the greater part of this Order should not come into operation until the 16th of April, but part of it would come into operation immediately in order to enable the requisite arrangements to be made for giving effect to it, and it would be in the possession of the Courts of Quarter Sessions the week after next.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, he was not aware of the facts of the case; but since the hon. Gentleman had placed
 846
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to ask, whether Her Majesty's Government, in consequence of the re-importation of the cattle plague, has not under consideration the propriety of prohibiting the removal of imported cattle from the place of debarkation?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to direct attention to some remarkable facts upon another branch of the question—the statistics relating to the boroughs of England and Wales. He did not wish to anticipate in any way the discussion upon the second reading of the Franchise Bill; but his object was that the country should have all the information necessary for considering the subject in all its bearings. These statistics bad been placed before the House immediately previous to the introduction of the Franchise Bill, when there was little time to consider them, and every day was bringing new surprises to those who searched into the particulars. He held in his hand a table he had prepared from the blue book, and which might be verified by reference to it. He had only gone so far as thirty-nine of the largest boroughs for England, but the results gave serious ground for reflection to all who really desired to inquire into the real bearing of the subject. By taking in each of those thirty-
 862
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he rose to ask whether, under the proposed Orders, it would be competent to move cattle from one part of the metropolitan district to another?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to make one or two remarks in reference to the county voters and the form in which the information respecting them had been presented to the House, What his hon. Friend the Member for North Lin colnshire (Mr. Banks Stanhope) had complained of was, that the county Returns
 870
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he wished to know, whether the Order applied to sheep as well as to oxen?
 MR. ADAIR  said, he understood that the sole object of the Bill was a financial one, and that it did not at all affect the question whether gas had been well or ill supplied to the public. It, therefore, ought not to be referred to the same Committee as the other Bill.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he thought it most important that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. If there was nothing for them to consider, so much the better for the Committee.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he must oppose the Motion for referring the Bill to the Committee which had the City of London Corporation Gas Bill before it. The present Bill was a merely financial one, and limited to the purpose of raising money to pay for new buildings which the company were under the Gas Act obliged to erect. Every protection for the interest of the public was secured by the Bill, and there was not a single clause in it giving any additional powers to the Commissioners. It was therefore hard, simply because the City of London was piqued at not being able to pass its Bill, that the promoters of the present measure should be put to
 889
 MR. ROEBUCK  said, he wished to know what harm there was in submitting this Bill to the consideration of a Committee. If the promoters of the Bill were right the Committee would decide in their favour. If they were wrong they would be beaten. On that simple consideration he thought the Bill ought to be referred to a Committee. He believed there was not a gas company in the City of London that was not at this time cheating the public.
 MR. DODSON  said, the object of the Bill was simply to raise additional capital. At the present moment there was only one petition against it, and as to that the  locus standi
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, that the Committee had instructions from the House to go into the whole question of gas and of the Act of 1860. It was clearly understood that all measures relating to the supply of gas should be referred to that Committee, and he therefore trusted the House would refer this Bill also. He denied that the corporation of the City of London was actuated by any pique in the matter
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that up to the year 1858 the system of the promotion of assistant-surgeons to surgeons in the Guards was undoubtedly a regimental system. In that year, however, a warrant was issued which conferred several pecuniary advantages upon the medical department, and that warrant also enacted that the mode of promotion as a general rule should be by seniority in the service. In 1860 a question arose as to whether the provisions of this warrant would apply to the surgeons of the household brigade of cavalry, and, after consideration, it was decided by Her Majesty on the recommendation of the Commander-in-Chief and the Secretary for War that in the household cavalry and the Guards also, in consideration of the surgeons having accepted the warrant, and being in the enjoyment of the advantages conferred upon them by it, the mode of promotion enacted; by that warrant should be carried out in both services, to the extent that the promotion from the rank of assistant-surgeons to surgeons should not go in the regiment but in the brigade. Until within a few days no case had occurred in the Brigade of Guards under the new system; the alteration, however, was not a recent one, but dated as long back as 1860.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he understood from the Commissioners of Crown Lands that, under very favourable circumstances, it would let for about £1,200 per annum.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was bound to say that he had not found it any part of his duty to inquire of Her Majesty whether she required Claremont for her personal use and enjoyment, or not. He knew that Claremont was an object of the deepest interest to Her Majesty, and without doubt it would be appropriated to her use, or to that of some member of the Royal Family. This concession made to Her Majesty was part of a measure which would result in great pecuniary benefit to the Exchequer of the country. On examination, his hon. Friend would find that the statements which he had made were fully borne out.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that Claremont was not a house that could be granted away in the manner suggested by the hon. Member. It was desirable in certain instances that Her Majesty should have the power of granting residences to those whom she was anxious to reward, but Claremont would not be used for that purpose. The hon. Member spoke of it as a gift by Parliament to Her Majesty, but it was given in consideration of the pecuniary benefit which the public would receive from the proposed measure, and should not be viewed as unsettling the Civil List. He had already stated the sum the country would gain by letting the house, and that sum it was now proposed to give up in consideration of certain benefits which the public would receive by the measure they were about to pass. It was in consideration of the benefit which the public would receive from this measure that the Government felt themselves justified in recommending the proposed disposal of Claremont. In his opinion, the Bill was one which would be of considerable advantage to the public, although it would likewise grant to Her Majesty the enjoyment of Claremont during her life.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in introducing the Resolutions used the expression that the consent of his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales had been given to the measure.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the words he had used were that the measure had met with the approval of the Prince of Wales.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the approval of his Royal Highness to the measure being required would load the public to suppose that the rights of the Prince were being dealt with.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the approval of his Royal Highness was not required to this Resolution.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the approval of the Prince was unnecessary unless they were about to deal with his reversionary interest. He could not see why His Royal Highness' name had been introduced into the matter at all.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the introduction of the Prince's name had no reference to this portion of the Resolutions.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had named his Royal Highness.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had not mentioned the name of the Prince in relation to Claremont, but in relation to the other portions of the measure which affected his interests. As a strict matter of fact the approval of the Prince was not requisite, but as the proposed change in reference to some of the estates about to be dealt with affected his interests, and as His Royal Highness was of age and in a position to take cognizance of the matter, it was thought right that he should be made aware of what was taking place, and that his approval should be obtained. Claremont, however, in no way bore upon his interests, and therefore his approval had not been sought for this Resolution.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had misunderstood the matter. It was but right that the Prince should know what was going on with reference to matters by which his interests would be affected.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask for an explanation respecting the sum
 895
 MR. COWPER  said, that the Government had determined to buy the ground now occupied by the workhouse, the parochial schools, and some houses in the rear of the National Gallery. It would be necessary to consider the matter in two points of view—one in reference to covering by buildings the ground in the rear, and the other in reference to pulling down the building in Trafalgar Square, which was unworthy of the position it occupied, and erecting a new building there, in addition to the buildings to be erected in the rear. The Government were not prepared to decide at once to pull down the existing National Gallery before having some idea of what should be substituted in its place. He had, therefore, thought it desirable that a limited number of architects should be consulted as to the best mode of laying out the ground, and as to the general question of the expediency of erecting a new Gallery either on all the ground he had mentioned, including a part of Trafalgar Square, or on a portion of it. As it was not a case for unlimited competition this matter would be carefully considered by a small number of most eminent architects, to each of whom £200 would be given for their labour in preparing designs. The number had been at first fixed at six, and it had since been determined to enlarge the number to ten; and he doubted whether it would be desirable to enlarge it further. The arrangement was only a preliminary step for the purpose of getting the opinion of these architects and for obtaining their designs, and whatever plan might be adopted would be brought before Parliament.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he was glad that the number of six architects was to be enlarged to ten, and he would be more satisfied if the number were increased to a round dozen, or still further. If the right hon. Gentleman was not at present prepared to mention the names of the selected ten, perhaps he would state how soon they would be made known, and whether the competing architects would be called on to produce two designs—one for enlarging the present Gallery, and the other for an entirely new building? He trusted that nothing like prejudice would be allowed to operate against any one in regard to the style which he might adopt.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he concurred in the propriety of enlarging the number of architects to be called in by the Government. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) if he went into the City and walked through some of the thoroughfares there, would see the works of many architects who might properly be included in the competition. Another point on which it was desirable that information should be given was, whether the style of the new building had been considered. He did not suppose that any one desired to see a pseudo-mediaeval building erected in Trafalgar Square, and he had reason to believe that the right hon. Gentleman was in favour of a different style. He understood that Mr. Street had been nominated one of the ten architects, but if that gentleman should be appointed architect for the Law Courts under the condition of confining his exertions to their construction entirely, how could he possibly attend to the erection of a new National Gallery as well? Another point of importance was the constitution of a competent tribunal to decide on the merits of the various designs. From the letters which he himself received, as well as from what he saw in the public papers, he inferred that there was great public anxiety as to the competency of the tribunal. He hoped that gentlemen would be selected for that office in whom the public and the class of professional architects would place the most perfect confidence. It would be satisfactory, he thought, if the right hon. Gentleman assured the House that he would feel at liberty to select for the purpose of preparing designs a larger number of architects than ten.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he agreed with the hon. Member (Mr. Bentinck) as to the necessity of appointing a competent tribunal to decide on the designs, but did not concur with him in thinking that the question of style should be foreclosed, or that this was the proper time to raise the discussion. In the discussion about the Law Courts the other day it was creditable to the House that the  acharné 897 tabula rasa,
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to inquire, j whether it was the decision of the Government to re-face the present building, or to pull it down?
 MR. COWPER  said, that his individual opinion was in favour of pulling down the existing building, but the Government had not come to a final decision on the subject, since the decision might partly depend on the excellence of the design for the new building, for mean and inappropriate as the old Gallery was, it was possible they might get something worse in its place. Great care must be taken to make the new portion harmonize with the old, in the event of the latter being retained; and, as no decision had yet been arrived at, he thought it best, in giving instructions to the architects, to request them to prepare alternative plans—one for an entirely new building, and one simply for alterations of, and additions to, the existing building.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that if they merely re-faced the old building all the present in conveniences internally would remain, the space allotted to the sculpture being the most miserable hole that could be conceived He should much prefer a new building, the designs being submitted to general competition. It would be absurd to attempt to put a new face upon the building, unless it was also to have a new interior. Its small rooms were essentially unfitted for the purposes of a national gallery. He did not think it would be advisable to erect a Gothic building upon the site.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he would suggest that the ground contiguous to the Houses of Parliament and the new Foreign Office should be bought up, so that they might have a site which could accommodate the whole of our public offices. This would inevitably have to be done in the end, and it was surely much better to do so at once at a moderate cost than to
 898
 MR. COWPER  said, that the ground to the rear of the National Gallery consisted of an acre and a half, and it would be necessary that it should be built upon before the present Gallery was pulled down, in order that there might be an edifice to which the collection could be temporarily removed, no other place being available. Then would come the question, whether it would be desirable to destroy the present building. He was of opinion that it would, but that was a matter on which they need not for the present decide, and they would be better able to come to such a decision when they had before them the designs for an edifice to be erected in its place. It would not be right to prejudge this question now. He believed the National Gallery cost about £80,000, and the Government had to consider whether it would be worth while to sacrifice the value of the existing building to put up a building worthy of London and admirably adapted for the exhibition of pictures. He was of opinion that it would be worth while, but what he proposed to do was to get plans, which would enable the Government and the House to decide that question when the time for decision came,
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Has the architect been asked to send in a plan of alterations?
 MR COWPER : No, the building might be altered; but he thought it could not be altered in a satisfactory way. The architects selected would be called upon to furnish two plans; the first for an additional building on the new site, and the other for an entirely new structure. With reference to the number of the architects, there was nothing magical in the number six, or nine, or twelve; the proper course was to consider how many architects there were who were fit to be intrusted with such a work, and, in his opinion, the number of such men was small. When the architects who were to send in these
 899
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  had listened with pleasure to the remarks of his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cowper) as to the equality upon which the different styles would be placed by the plan of top lighting,
 900 901
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, it seemed that the Government were about to proceed in the matter of the National Gallery in that piecemeal manner which the House had so many reasons to lament. They would be obliged, sooner or later, to consider whether the existing building should be pulled down, and it was surely much better that they should decide this point before taking any step whatever. They were going to erect a building in the rear of the National Gallery without having any idea of what was to be placed in the front. They must consider, sooner or later, what they were going to do with the National Gallery, whether they were going to pull it down or re-face it. Let them come forward with a comprehensive plan and he believed Parliament would not grudge the money when they knew what they would get for it; but by proceeding in this piecemeal manner they would be very likely to spend in the long run a larger sum than would be required for a comprehensive scheme. He agreed with the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. B. Hope) that the number of competent architects was not confined to six, or twelve, or twenty. He was told there were 300 architects in this country. [Mr. BERESFORD HOPE: There are nearer a thousand.] Taking them, then, at a thousand, it was only reasonable to conclude that a fair percentage of them were competent for such a work, and by limiting the competitors to half a dozen they might exclude the very man who was most qualified. He should prefer an open competition; but if this could not be, let there be a fair percentage invited to compete. With regard to Mr. Street, he did not wish to say anything in disparagement of that gentleman, but he thought he was not likely to produce anything good in the Italian style. He was informed that he some time ago visited Vicenza, and that he went through it without seeing anything of the public buildings for which it was famous, on the ground that he was afraid if he looked at them the purity of his taste would be injured. He doubted, therefore, the judgment of the Government in selecting Mr. Street as a competitor. With regard to style, he hoped the House would have
 902
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, that his hon. Friend (Mr. Baillie Cochrane) had suggested that it was advisable to capitalize the sum of £25,000 per annum voted for the rents of public offices, and with the sum so raised to erect suitable buildings for the public offices. Of that suggestion the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) had taken no notice, although by adopting that plan no outlay of public money would be required. He wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether there was intention of continuing the experiments which were commenced some years ago for the purpose of arresting the decay of the stone facings of the Houses of Parliament?
 MR. BAGNALL  said, he wished to inquire, whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed that the new picture galleries should be lighted with gas?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he should be sorry if it was supposed that be had intended to say anything direspectful to Mr. Street in the observations he had made. All that he intended to say was that that gentleman being committed to the Gothic style it would be better to place the matter in the hands of an architect who was not wedded to any particular style of architecture.
 MR. COWPER  said, that the phrase
 903 904
 MR. BAGNALL  said, he did not understand that the right hon. Gentleman had replied to his question as to whether it was intended to light the new picture galleries with gas.
 MR. COWPER  said, that he would consider the propriety of lighting the gallery with gas for the exhibition of the pictures at night.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, that he concurred in the opinion entertained by many competent authorities that the use of gas in the galleries was attended by pernicious effects upon the pictures, and this he believed was especially the ease in London, where the quality of the gas was exceedingly impure. Even in South Kensington Museum, where precautions had been taken to purify the gas which was burnt, it was believed by many whose opinions were entitled to weight, that the pictures suffered injury from being subjected to its influence. A Committee was inquiring into the subject at the present moment at South Kensington, and be hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not hastily make up his mind upon the subject, but give that attention to the opinions of that Committee to which they were entitled. One object should be to preserve our national collections as long as possible, and not to expose the pictures to the injurious influences inseparable from the lighting of the public galleries by gas.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know if the passing of the Vote under discussion pledged the Committee to the employment of a small and a particular number of architects in the preparation of designs for the improvement of the National Gallery; he would also be glad to learn whether the designs would be exhibited in public?
 MR. COWPER  said, he had already-stated that the Committee would not be pledged by passing the Vote to the consideration of the designs of any specified number of architects only. For himself, he had no preference for any particular number, and though an endeavour would be made to have such a number of architects as would constitute a guarantee that the competition was entered into by men of sufficient experience and qualifications, the number had not yet been finally filled up. The designs when sent in would be exhibited to the public and to the House.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to know whether any Member after this Vote would be permitted to revive the question as to the advisability of submit ting those designs to public competition. Would his right hon. Friend also take into consideration the improvement of the pas-sago at the back of the National Gallery,
 906
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to ask, whether it was intended to take all the Votes in the Paper before them that night, including the new Votes, such as that for the Natural History Museum.
 MR. COWPER  said, he did not propose to take that Vote that evening. He assured his hon. Friend (Mr. Henry Seymour) that he would not be pledged by agreeing to this Vote However desirable an improved communication at the back of the National Gallery might be, he could not understand that it was the duty of the Government to do the work, or that its expense should be defrayed out of the national revenue. He would suggest an application to the Metropolitan Board of Works. He might, however, say that the Government proposed that the new building should be set back so as to widen Hemming's Row He did not propose to take the site of the Baths and Washhouses, simply because it was not wanted; but be thought that precaution should be taken to prevent smoke coming from the building.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he thought that it was impossible to prevent injury to the pictures if the baths were allowed to remain. Besides, the proposal of the Government to remove the pictures to South Kensington was founded upon the injury which they would sustain from smoke in London. He believed that the metropolis would never be worthy of the country until there was some central authority, as in Paris, to make improvements. The Chief I Commissioners of Works, by his influence over bodies having funds for such a purpose, might do a great deal in this direction by causing all the authorities to act together in the matter. If be applied to the Metropolitan Board of Works no doubt they would agree to co-operate in carrying out a grand scheme of improvement. He
 907
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he confessed there appeared to him to be very considerable danger in laying down the principle that a party had only to create a nuisance in the neighbourhood of a public building in order to induce the Government to propose to vote a considerable sum to purchase the property; for he was afraid that an example of that kind would create a great disposition to follow the precedent. He believed that there was a steam-engine in the Baths and Washhouses in question in St. Martin's parish, no doubt an excellent institution—but he did not know why the managers should be permitted to contravene the law, and he should propose that it should be ascertained whether this smoke nuisance ought not to be put down by compelling them to consume their own smoke. Recently there was a very interesting discussion in the House as to the smoke nuisance, and he hoped that there was an increasing disposition to set their faces against it. If in the instance in question the nuisance existed, he should prefer its suppression by means of the law to buying it up by means of public money. As to the proposition to place a very great responsibility upon the Chief Commissioner of Works—to make him the centre of all authority as to metropolitan improvement, like the Prefect of the Seine in Paris—that he should take the initiative by forming an opinion as to the improvements, and urging their adoption by the Metropolitan Board of Works—that proposition might be right or not, hut it would involve a very important change, and one the nature of which the House ought to be alive to. There was this important difference between the Commissioner of Works and the Prefect of the Seine, that the latter, though an Imperial, and not a municipal officer, was backed up and sustained by a very large grant from the Imperial revenue, and this grant, in connection with the municipal revenues of Paris, was devoted to the improvement of the city. Now, it would be singularly hard if his right hon. Friend (Mr. Cowper) were expected to produce the same splendid and magnificent results unless they were prepared to supply him
 908
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he wished to ask, whether the promise given with respect to the bringing forward of plans applied alike to all projected public buildings, including the new Patent Office and the London University?
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was glad the Chancellor of the Exchequer had interposed to prevent the First Commissioner of Works getting upon a very tall horse, and riding about London to see what changes he could propose in order that the streets might be made worthy of London, and London worthy of England. He was perfectly sure that if the right hon. Gentleman were thereafter to suggest his improvements to the Board of Works they would immediately ask him, "How much money are you going to give us?" And when he answered, "Not a farthing," they would doubtless make him a civil bow, and nothing would be left for him but to get on his horse again and ride home. It was sufficient if Government dealt with improvements when necessity and opportunity arose for making them; it was more than sufficient if Government set about making London worthy of a diplomatic kingdom.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he wished to inquire, whether the architects who would design plans for the National Gallery would be instructed to make provision in the new
 909
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, he wished to ask whether the architects would be instructed to make such a design as would preserve the present building? He would suggest that as it was generally admitted to be unsatisfactory it should not be preserved; and that the designs should not be spoilt by any such instruction. An additional reason for the rejection of the present building was the projected new street between the Strand and Regent Street, which would materially affect the shape of the new National Gallery. The right hon. Gentleman had, on a previous occasion, submitted a design for a very excellent picture gallery at Burlington House, and its rejection was to be regretted.
 MR. COWPER  said, that considering the time which would elapse before the site in the rear of the National Gallery could be acquired, and the time the buildings would take to erect, five years in the future was the earliest period when it would be necessary to deal with the existing building The site proposed to be purchased in rear of the National Gallery could not be obtained for two years. After that period had elapsed, it would take two years to complete the new buildings, and, consequently, it was not possible to deal at the same moment with the site behind the National Gallery and the Gallery itself. The design would be divided into two separate parts—one would refer to that portion of the future gallery to be erected on the acre and a half, and the other to what might be substituted for the existing building in Trafalgar Square. The two plans were to form a complete and uniform building, yet the Government and Parliament could accept either without its companion. He had given instructions that provision should be made for the reception of the pictures of the National Portrait Gallery; but the management and responsibility of that Gallery would be kept distinct from that of the National Gallery.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he wished to ask, whether the right hon. Gentleman could indicate any period at which it was likely that the portion of the National Gallery now appropriated to other purposes would be available for the accommodation of the national pictures?
 MR. COWPER  said, that pursuant to the notice they had received from the Government to that effect, the Royal Academy
 910
 MR. BOVILL  said, he wished to call attention to the internal condition of the Patent Office, from which a revenue of £40,000 to£60,000 annually was obtained. Any person having occasion to enter that office on business was shown into a room where the desks were most inconveniently placed, where half a dozen persons were usually waiting to make searches, and where there was exactly one chair and a stool for the accommodation of the party. The state of the place altogether was discreditable, and he did not suppose it had been white-washed for the last eight or ten years. Producing as it did so large a sum of money to the State, he wished to know whether any steps were in contemplation to provide that office with proper furniture?
 MR. COWPER  said, he had been aware that the Patent Office was confined in point of space, but not that the furniture was unsuitable to the dignity of the place. If any desks or furniture proper for the office were needed, he would take care that they were supplied.
 MR. BOVILL  said, his remarks applied not to furniture suited to the dignity of the office, but to the convenience of those whose duties brought them to the Patent Office, from which the State so largely benefited.
 MR. COWPER  said, it was generally expected that officers in the different departments would make known their wants in regard of furniture; and no application of that kind had been received from the Patent Office.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask whether the same discretion as to additional furniture was vested in officers charged with the care of the National collections of pictures. There were several places, he thought, where additional seats would add to the comfort of persons visiting the galleries.
 MR. COWPER  said, that their wants were made known by the different officers to the Department of Works, which granted them if they were not very unreasonable.
 MR. SELWYN  said, it was impossible for any one who took an interest in Kew Gardens to avoid referring to the great loss the public had sustained by the death of one whom it was no exaggeration to call a benefactor as well as a most efficient public servant. The right hon. Gentleman and the Government might be congratulated upon having compensated that loss, as far as possible, by the appointment of so efficient a successor as the son of that lamented officer. He knew he should not be controverting the opinions either of the late Sir William Hooker or of his son in declaring that nothing was more imperatively required at Kew than the completion of the temperate house. Three years ago attention had been called to the subject, and strong opinions expressed in that House; but the two octagons were still allowed to remain without wings, notwithstanding that the foundations had been excavated, and the workmen's sheds and temporary roads allowed to remain, to the great disfigurement of the gardens. While these buildings lay in the state he had described, other works—such as the reservoir for the supply of water—not of equal importance to Kew Gardens, whatever they might be to other parts of the Government property, had been pressed forward.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that a positive promise on this subject had been given to the House three years ago, and it was a disgrace to the country that gardens bearing so high a character should be suffered to remain in such an untidy, discreditable condition.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he must repeat the objections which he had urged on many former occasions to the payment out of the Consolidated Fund for local information, such as Battersea Park, Kennington Park, Victoria Park, and others in London. The expense of keeping up Parks should be borne, not by the Consolidated Fund, but by the localities in which they were situated.
 MR. COWPER  said, he agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Mr. Selwyn) that the gardens at Kew had been most admirably conducted under the late excellent and learned director (Sir William Hooker) and his no less able successor, Dr. Hooker. The question which had been raised in the present discussion was, whether they were to spend a sum of £14,000 in enlarging the present temperate house? It was quite true that the building as designed seven or eight years ago included net merely the building now erected, but
 912
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to call attention to the inconvenience arising from the existing arrangement of seats in the House of Commons. He had no very sanguine expectation that the interior of the House would be made what it ought to be; but he wished to show that the present inconvenient disposition of the seats had a physical and a moral aspect. It was a monstrous thing to have a House not large enough for the Members who were entitled to sit in it. There were 658 hon. Gentlemen entitled to take a part in the business of that House; and it was to be expected that on some occasions at least most of those Gentlemen would be present. He discarded at once from consideration the galleries above our heads as totally unsuitable for taking part in the business of the House. The Benches under the gallery, also, at each side were practically useless for the purposes of Members who wished to take part in a debate. The same might be said of those seats which were beyond the Chair. In fact, 170, at the outside, was the number of the seats really available for Members who wished to hear or to be heard. The form of the House had arisen from old associations—that of old St. Stephen's Chapel having been followed; designed long before Parliamentary Government had spread to other countries, and in which
 913 914
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he wished to make two practical suggestions. The first was that there should be a door at the end of every gangway opening into the lobby. This would remove the difficulty which hon. Members must frequently have experienced of getting into the division lobby. He did not believe that the arrangement which he ventured to propose could possibly cause any practical inconvenience. His second suggestion was that I the lobbies upstairs, which were almost useless, should be thrown open. Though occasionally used by the Attorney General and other Law Officers of the Crown for writing and the arrangement of their papers, they were practically of little use to Members generally. This would give greater facilities to peers and distinguished strangers who might wish to listen to the debates, and for whom at present very scanty accommodation was provided. It was true that many hon. Members never addressed the House, but that was no reason why they should not all have convenient seats, where they could hear important debates. The crowding upon great occasions was extremely inconvenient. He thought, too, that greater accommodation might be given in the ladies' gallery, as the seats now provided for the ladies were quite discreditable to the House. It was almost impossible for a lady to sit down with any comfort and listen to a debate. In his opinion the ladies' gallery ought to be thrown open altogether, and the unsightly grating in front of the gallery might well be removed.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he thought that the proposed opening of a
 915 "Whether, considering the various shades of political opinion now existing, and likely to prevail still more in future in the House of Commons, it might not be desirable to arrange the seats of the House in such a manner as should enable Members to locate themselves in more ostensible accordance than at present with the particular class of political opinions to which they might personally incline.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he thought it was hardly fair, just when the Government had brought in a Franchise Bill, and had promised to lay upon the table a Bill for the re-distribution of seats, to impose upon them the additional burden of classifying Members according to the opinions they held or the parties to which
 916
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he was much surprised to hear any hon. Member find fault with the accommodation of the House for its Members. Practically, its form was the best adapted for their deliberations. Those who were familiar with the magnificent amphitheatres which had been alluded to were struck with the superior convenience of the House of Commons. As to the inconveniences which had been spoken of, they very seldom occurred; it was probably not oftener than six or seven
 917
 MR. HUNT  said, he did not complain of the accommodation for Members. If the seats were placed in a circular form the change might be useful to Members anxious to veer round without observation The discussion reminded him of the disgraceful scene which took place at the commencement of the Session, when they were summoned to the House of Lords to hear the Queen's Speech, On that occasion he observed that the Speaker was much incommoded, and that the loader of the House (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) got into a back eddy and was unable to reach the Bar of- the House of Lords and appear in his proper place. No one could have seen the right hon. Gentleman without regretting his unfortunate position. Some attempt ought to be made to prevent the recurrence of such scenes, for at present it was really a farce that the House should be summoned to hour a Royal Speech, though a part of it was addressed especially to that House. It was not too much to ask that the gallery in the House of Lords usually allotted to Members of the House of Commons should be reserved for them on these occasions. There was ample accommodation for the friends of Peers in the body of the House. It was not creditable to the Members of the House of Commons nor to the country that they should rush to the Bar of the House of Lords like a parcel of schoolboys. They suffered in public estimation from the occurrence of these scenes, and he therefore hoped some assurance would be given that they should not recur.
 MR. COWPER  said, he was not moved by the appeal made by the hon. Member for Devizes for enabling a larger number of Members to address the House. He said that no more than 170 Members could get seats from which to address the House in one debate, and this was an inconvenience that might be endured. He had not observed that any one had been de-
 918 919 920
 MR. HORSMAN : I thank my hon. Friend (Mr. D. Griffith) for having reminded the House of the existence of Independent Members, and it is on their behalf that I would call the attention of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Cowper) to the fact that in former times we were treated with consideration even by those like my hon. Friend near me (Sir Colman O'Loghlen), who prides himself on his excessive liberality. The hon. Member does not believe in the existence of Independent Members; he ignores them, and will not tolerate them. He says all the Members of the House are divided into two parties, and he would not tolerate the idea of any but the usual party divisions. My hon. Friend has not been very long in the House, and when he gave the hon. Member for Devizes a lecture he showed that he did not understand the subject as well as the hon. Gentleman who made the suggestion, for there was a great deal more in what he said than those who criticized his speech were aware of. My hon. Friend is mistaken in supposing that the proposition which he laid down can be established. It is the courtesy of the House which gives even to the Government the undisturbed occupation of that bench, for I apprehend that any Member of this House might go and sit where the Chancellor of the Exchequer is now sitting. But the courtesy of the House allows those who are carrying on the business of the House, and those who sympathize with their views and objects, to sit together in order that they may have the advantage of consulting together during the course of a debate; and so with regard to the Gentlemen on the other side. Therefore, the practice of the House is that Gentlemen will always sit with their own party and behind their own leaders, and that, until recently, has been a law as binding as if it were the rule of the House. But the practical advice of the hon. Member for Devizes is, that as there are certain benches in the House of Lords for persons who do not range themselves under the leaders on either side, so there ought to be
 921 922
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Horsman) has made an appeal to me, I wish to say a few words with respect to the subject under discussion. It is, undoubtedly, a question of serious difficulty, and I am not quite sure that the hon. Gentleman opposite, though he has evidently paid due attention to it, as I think he invariably does to any question which he submits to the House, has comprehended the whole difficulty At the first sight it would seem that in a hall destined to receive Members delegated by a portion of their countrymen to discharge weighty duties there ought to be provided ample accommodation for all. That would be the most natural conception for any one to form, but it would not be possible for any conception to be more erroneous. My right hon. Friend the Chief Commissioner of Works has given the true explanation of this affair when he says that our present arrangements are to be tested by their working, and that, as upon the whole they work well, they are good arrangements. The House must not look at the maximum number of Members who may occasionally be gathered within these walls, but to the average number that require accommodation. If we were to have the splendid space that would be necessary to provide accommodation, not only for 650
 923 924 925
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that the hon. Member for Devizes did not, being a comparatively new Member, know the strength of his own case. The old temporary House of Commons fitted up after the fire of 1834, though, as far as style went, a hideous barn, was larger and more convenient in some respects than the
 926
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, he hoped the First Commissioner of Works would not apply for any considerable grant for increasing the size of the House. That building had faults, no doubt; but quite enough money had been spent upon it for some time to come. He wished to express his regret that the First Commissioner of Works should have given any approval to the suggestion of the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Hankey) with regard to the opening of
 927
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that he himself and the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White) had always given up their places below the gangway to the right hon. Member for Stroud (Mr. Hors-man) and the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho) whenever they wished to address the House. He desired to ask the First Commissioner of Works, whether there was any chance of an enlargement of the dining-room, which was now found much too small? The existence of a good dining-room would be recognized as an absolute necessity by the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Brand), for without it the House would be liable to be counted out again and again.
 MR. HORSMAN  said, he did not wish to be thought to complain of any want of courtesy on the part of hon. Gentlemen who sat near him. On the contrary, nothing could be greater than the courtesy they had always shown him; but for that very reason it was painful to him on the occasion of any great debate when they had come down three-quarters of an hour before business began to deprive them of a seat when they were, perhaps, unable to find another. He was sorry the Chancellor of the Exchequer was not now in his place, because that right hon. Gentleman's remarks were calculated rather to mislead the House. As to Mr. Burke's saying that an Independent Member was a Member who could not be depended upon, he was then speaking of a man whose
 928
 MR. WHITE  said, he gathered from the remarks of the right hon. Member for Stroud that he desired to turn that front bench below the gangway into "a Cave of Adullam." For some time past he had himself occupied the seat which the right hon. Gentleman seemed to covet, but which he had freely yielded to him whenever he wished to address the House from it, and from which he (Mr. Horsman) had lately made his attack on the hon. Member for Birmingham (Mr. Bright). But he desired that the right hon. Gentleman should understand that those who usually occupied that part of the House protested against his converting that front row into an exclusive resort for the advocates of his peculiar opinions.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, he wished to draw the attention of hon. Members to the great inconvenience experienced by all persons transacting business in the seventeen Committee-rooms appertaining to the House of Commons. The Committee-rooms of the House of Lords, too, were in no better condition. Complaints had been repeatedly made during the summer months of
 929
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished to ask for an explanation of the item. It appeared that the ordinary charge for the maintenance of the bridge was £2,500; but there was an outstanding claim unsettled of £5,525, and he should like to know why the Committee was called upon to vote that amount? In the discussion which last year took place with respect to the new approaches to the Houses of Parliament his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works had stated that it was the intention of the architect, Mr. E, Barry, to construct a covered way which would connect the bridge with the proposed railway station. His right hon. Friend had also informed the House on that occasion that the railway station would be erected on the north side of Bridge Street hut, as far as he could ascertain from the hoarding and works which were now in process of construction, it would be on the west side. He should wish to hear from his right hon. Friend whether the present Vote had any reference to the expenses of the covered way to which he alluded, and whether it was still his intention to carry out that work in connection with the approaches between Westminster Bridge and the Houses of Parliament? He would also, perhaps, be good enough to tell the Committee whether it was to be imposed as a condition on the railway company that the architecture of the station was to correspond with that of the Houses of Parliament? If so, the condition would be hard upon them, as well as upon the taxpayers of the country, because every one, whether his taste inclined to the modern style of architecture, or, like that of his hon. Friend the Member for Stoke (Mr. Beresford Hope) to the mediaeval, was prepared to condemn the useless patchwork crinkle-crankle style on which the weak mindedness of Members of that
 930
 MR. COWPER  said, the item for claims unsettled arose out of certain legal claims which were made by the engineer of the bridge and the contractors, with respect to which proceedings were going on, and to meet which it was deemed desirable to take a Vote in the event of the decision going against the Government, which, however, he did not anticipate would be the case. No part of the Vote would be expended on the subway to which the hon. Gentleman referred. That would be paid for out of the Vote for the Houses of Parliament. The hoarding which might now he observed at the point to which the hon. Gentleman alluded indicated not the station, but the railway cutting, which was to be carried through the surface, and afterwards covered over—forming a tunnel—as far as the station, which was to be placed on the north side of Bridge Street. The style which would be adopted for the buildings was the Tudor, which was exceedingly convenient for chambers, and which was the most suitable for that situation. It would correspond with the neighbouring buildings, and there would be no inconvenience in its adoption.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask how it was that when, some time ago, the corporation of Dublin sought for a grant for the bridges in that city the application was treated by Government as ridiculous, while the maintenance of Westminster Bridge was paid for out of the Consolidated Fund?
 MR. COWPER  said, that there was formerly a corporation known as the Commissioners of Westminster Bridge, whose functions had been imposed upon the Board of Works, and the funds at whose disposal, amounting to £11,000, had been transferred to the Consolidated Fund. There i was, therefore, a claim on that Fund for the purposes of the bridge.
 MR. BOVILL : I wish to call attention to the present state of the records. In 1852 all enrolments and records were transferred to the Record Office. Now, if a person goes
 931
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he was sure that the. Master of the Rolls, when informed of this want of arrangement, would have the matter attended to.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he wished to call the attention of the Committee to the present state of that office. The proposed Vote opened up a variety of serious and important questions. The present Law of Patents was passed in 1852, and the subject had attracted a great deal of attention on the part both of mercantile and scientific bodies. Without going into the question of the policy of patents, he took the law as it stood, and contended that until the law was altered all parties were bound to uphold it in efficiency. In 1852 the Act of Parliament declared that a place should be provided for the Patent Office and for the accommodation of those requiring to inspect the patents. That place was found in a portion of the old Masters' Offices in Southampton Buildings, Chancery Lane, but in a short time it was felt to be quite
 932 933 934 "For this purpose suitable apartments for the Commissioners, law officers, and clerks, with a record office1 and rooms for inspecting provisional specifications, drawings, and scientific publications should be at once provided the place now used for the inspection of specifications and drawings, is little better than a dark passage, in which there is barely standing room. With regard to the library your Committee have found that it is one of great value and utility, but that its utility is seriously impaired by its crowded state, and the want of sufficient attendants; the books are now stowed away in a number of small rooms, or rather closets, some on floors, some on tables, some in passages, and some on shelves; while the storerooms are so overloaded that the floors have already sunk, and the surveyor of she Board of Works has refused to allow them to be loaded any more, lest they should break down. The inconvenience to those who frequent the office and library arising from this state of things is enhanced by the want of a sufficient staff of attendants. Your Committee consider that the necessity for increased accommodation in respect of the Patent Office and library is most urgent, as they have it in evidence that its want is so much felt as to prejudice the due administration of the Patent Law, and they, therefore, recommend that sufficient office room, with an additional reading-room, and an extension of the library, should be provided with the least possible delay." 935 936 "Would be only occasionally employed for the purpose of checking them or giving them any assistance which, with their knowledge would be found necessary or convenient." 937 938 939 940
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that as one of the Commissioners of Pa-
 941 942 943 944 945
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, he had received, as a new Member, a caution from the Chancellor of the Exchequer not to venture an assault upon that impregnable fortress, the Public Revenue, and should have felt some doubt in supporting the proposition of his hon. Friend had he understood that such would be its effects. All that was proposed, however, was that the revenue derived from patents should be applied to afford proper accommodation for the exhibition of patents, and in that view he entirely agreed. It was only right that a building should be elected on a proper scale and in a proper position; hut as the Government had not considered the matter adequately it ought to be postponed. The learned Attorney General said the House ought not to legislate on fragmentary principles, and it was to be hoped he would carry the House with him in a few days with reference to another and a longer measure (the Reform Bill) now before the House. He said that the subject ought to be discussed as a whole. If, as the Chancellor of the Exchequer told an admiring audience at. Liverpool, the audit account would secure the legitimate application of the revenues from patents, it was to be hoped there would be a large fund available to provide additional accommodation; and that would constitute another reason for a brief delay.
 MR. POWELL  said, that, he was on the Committee of 1864. If the Patent Laws were to continue in their present state, the Government had done too little, and if they were to be abolished, the Government had done too much. The Patent Office, museum, and library could not be separated; but it had not been determined
 946
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he had no doubt that the Patent Laws required consolidation and some years ago he was with another gentleman appointed to consolidate the statute, but, though the plan they recommended was approved by the Commission, nothing was done, because it was said that the whole patent was to undergo law revision. Now, this had been virtually said by the Attorney General that night, and yet in the face of this the Government proposed to spend £14,000 in adding and fitting up another storey to the Patent Office. The expenditure under consideration was proposed by a Government professing to act on economical principles, while in another pocket they had a proposition to establish a Patent Museum at Kensington. It was hard upon Members on the Opposition side of the House that they should be left alone to fight the battle of economy. The Estimates had been under discussion since five o'clock, and not one Gentleman on the other side of the House below the gangway had taken an objection. It was on the Opposition side of the House that truly Liberal principles prevailed. On the other side the questions which had occupied attention were, whether the ladies should have more seats, and hon. Members should speak from front Benches. The palmy days of independent Liberal opposition below the gangway were gone by. The Government should distinctly foreshadow their plan in proposing this ex-
 947
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the hon. Gentleman himself appeared rather in a chaos, as he was not aware that Mr. Stephenson was killed by a steam engine. With respect to the particular Vote now before the Committee, if he might recall the attention of hon. Gentlemen to so prosaic a subject, he would beg to remind them that this was not the first Vote for the service, but was to complete a building for which the House had voted a sum of £4,500 last year. A contract had been entered into on the faith of that Vote, part of the money had been paid, and he was informed by the First Commissioner of Works that the building would be completed in a short time. Under these circumstances, he appealed to the hon. and learned Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill) not to oppose the Vote, as it would be contrary to the practice of the House to do so after the grant which had been made last year. Even supposing the magnificent scheme were carried out, which would involve the spending of £200,000 in purchasing property in Chancery Lane, it would be necessary to carry on the present building. It was absolutely necessary to have something for the immediate purposes of the Patent Office. Whether that would be sufficient or not he would not now discuss. All he would say was that it was indispensable that what at least might be a temporary arrangement should be carried out. Under these circumstances, he would appeal to the
 948
 MR. POWELL  said, he wished to ask, whether last year the contract was entered into for the whole amount?
 MR. COWPER  said, that when the Committee sanctioned a grant of money for the erection of this building his Department considered itself authorized to carry out the intentions of the House of Commons by proceeding with the contract at once. By the present mode of procedure the House would not vote the whole sum that might be wanted, but only as much as would be required before the 31st of March. Nevertheless, the House would not shut out from view the consideration that money would be required after the 31st of March. The only effect of refusing this Vote would be that the contractor would lose the money to which he was entitled.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the explanation given by the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Childers) was but indifferently consistent with the statement made by the Attorney General. The hon. and learned Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill) had given various instances of the great inconvenience of the places in which specifications and other matters connected with patents were lodged. Not one of the statements with respect to these inconveniences did the Attorney General attempt to contradict; he admitted them all most fully, and it was quite impossible he could do otherwise consistently with the facts. It was quite true that this Vote was said to be a continuance of one agreed to last year, but then it was
 949
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the portion of the Report relative to clerks would be considered by the Treasury before the Vote to be taken some months hence.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the hon. Gentle man (Mr. Childers) had not, like the Attorney General, touched the question whether patents were to be continued All that
 950
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Henley) had misunderstood him. What he did say was, that there ought to be no large expenditure for permanent objects until the whole subject had been considered. But he did not say that they should not pay their way as they went on, They must have clerks and increased accommodation for the immediate wants, which did not require a large expenditure
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to know, whether the Government considered themselves pledged to bring this question to an issue, and to determine whether patents were to be continued or not? It was not right for the Government on such an important question to depend upon the action of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley) or any other independent Member.
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he wished that if the Attorney General thought that patents ought to be abolished he would say so, and not trust to the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn. The hon. and learned Member for Guildford had shown that much larger accommodation was required, and that the money in hand was adequate to provide larger accommodation. He thought the Attorney General had not properly met the statement of the hon. and learned Member for Guildford by expressing a hope that the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn would bring forward a Motion with reference to patents. Surely as long as patents were continued proper accommodation should be provided for people interested in patents, especially when the money paid by patentees was sufficient to provide it. The Attorney General was mistaken in saying that patentees gave nothing in return for the privileges granted to them. Did they not describe in broad daylight the whole of their inventions, so that at the expiration of their patents any one might make use of their inventions?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not perceive that there was any very great difference of opinion in this matter. He understood some hon. Gentlemen to claim that the Government should introduce a measure on the subject of the Law of Patents. He admitted, as a general rule, that questions of great importance ought to be dealt with by the Government; but in the present case two
 951
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to know whether the Secretary of the Treasury had referred to that part of the Report of Messrs. Greenwood and Hindmarch which recommended the appointment of a new officer of Patents, with a salary of £1,500 a year?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the appointment of a new officer of Patents had not been recommended to the Treasury by the Commissioners of Patents. What he had alluded to as being under the consideration of the Government was the question
 952
 MR. BOVILL  said, he was glad of the assurance that had been given that the question should receive the attention of the proper Department of the Government. He saw no inconvenience in the postponement of this Vote. There had been a Vote of £4,500 taken on account to pay the expenses of the contractors, so that no question would arise as to a breach of faith towards them. The Attorney General had assumed an untenable position with regard to the state of feeling now as compared with what prevailed in 1852 in relation to the policy of the Patent Laws. He must remind him that the opinions to which he had referred as to the impolicy of maintaining those laws were entertained in 1851, and that all those points were investigated by a Committee of the House of Lords, which had two Bills before it, and which examined witnesses as to whether it was desirable to repeal the Patent Laws. Moreover, in 1862, ten years after the passing of the Patent Act, the present Attorney General himself, together with the Lord Chancellor, the Master of the Rolls, and the Attorney General of that day, was actually a party to a memorial which was then addressed to the Treasury, pointing out the serious inconveniences and evils connected with the existing state of the Patent Office, and also joined in re-commending that the surplus income of the Office in 1852 and in the succeeding years should be applied to the purposes therein enumerated. But since 1862 that surplus revenue, instead of being set apart as a fund for the erection of more commodious buildings and the like, had been transferred by the Treasury to the Consolidated Fund and spent for the general purposes of the country. Where, then, had been the great change that had taken place since 1862, when the hon. and learned Gentleman concurred in that memorial and recommendation? Again, in 1865, when the Commission over which the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn presided made its Report, it did not report against the policy of the Patent Laws, but recommended that certain things should be done which could only be done on the footing that the Patent Laws were to continue. Those recommendations bad, however, been allowed to remain a complete dead letter; and the Government were receiving a surplus of from £50,000 to £60,000 a year from patentees. Would the Chan-
 953 954
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he wished an answer to his question, whether the Government had made up their minds that the Museum and Patent Office should go together, or whether the Museum was to remain at Kensington and the office in Chancery Lane?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he believed that the Office would remain in Chancery Lane. He was really surprised at the novel mode in which his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Guildford (Mr. Bovill) interpreted the statutes. Instead of inferring the intention of the Act from what it said, he sought to interpret it by what was said by those concerned in preparing it. If such a rule of interpretation were to be adopted in that House or in Westminster Hall, confusion would become a hundred times worse confounded. Passing from what was said by others: what the Legislature had said was this: "That the fees to be paid shall from time to time be paid to the receipts of the Exchequer, and be carried to the account of the Consolidated Fund of this kingdom." The intention of the Legislature evidently was, that out of the fees, which no doubt were calculated to be sufficient for maintaining the Patent Office, enough should be appropriated for its maintenance, and the rest should go to the Exchequer. To turn to the question before the House, it was admitted on all hands that there was great inconvenience, and that there was a pressing necessity for greater accommodation than existed. More room and more clerks were required. To provide them a Vote on account of £4,000 had been taken and expended, and if the additional sum now asked for were not allowed, works that were in progress would be stopped, and the greatest possible inconvenience would arise. Why was it desired to postpone the Vote? The reply which had been made was till some comprehensive measure could be introduced. Did any Gentleman suppose such a measure could be introduced during the present Session? It could not be introduced next Session if it were to be such a measure as his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Guildford had shadowed forth. In the meantime, if the Vote were not agreed to, great inconvenience would be experienced, while a comprehensive measure was being framed. AH that was asked was a moderate and reasonable amount for the purpose of keeping the Patent Office going. There was no inconsistency in what was said by the Attorney General and the Secretary for the Treasury. The Attorney General had said, "Before you determine whether or not this comprehensive measure shall be passed relating to the building of a new office you must determine whether patents shall be maintained or not." Till that question was determined,
 956
 MR. BOVILL  said, that he had not interpreted the intentions of the Legislature in the way his hon. and learned Friend had described. He (the Solicitor General) had not really read the Act. It was true that he had read from Section 46, which said that the fees should be paid to the Exchequer, and carried to and made part of the Consolidated Fund, but he had not read the section which imposed the payment of the fees. He had not referred to the schedule, and he was entirely mistaken in his view. The 44th section imposed certain payments for the use of Her Majesty and other fees besides. The schedule of the Act was in two parts, one relating to stamp duties and the other to the payment of fees; and the question was, for what purpose the schedule was divided into two parts. If an Act of Parliament stated that two different sums were to be paid, and that one was for the use of Her Majesty, the natural inference to be drawn was that the other was not to be for the use of Her Majesty, if the Act contained no provision on that point. It was not a question of legal construction at all; the Act of Parliament was silent. At the time the Act was passed the House of Commons held control over the payments that were made. Though the payments that were made to the Law Officers of the Crown had in the first instance to go into the Treasury, could it be said that they were for purposes of the public revenue, and not to be handed over to those functionaries? Had his hon. and learned Friend taken the trouble to look into the matter, he would have found that the fees which were now actually received into the Treasury were applied in payment of the Law Officers of England, in payment of the Lord Advocate of Scotland, the Attorney and Solicitor General for Ireland, and in payment of compensation to officers who had been displaced. Yet his hon. and learned Friend said this money was public revenue, which could not be maintained. What he (the Solicitor General) had said in reference to the interpretation of an Act of Parliament was perfectly correct. But he (Mr. Bovill) had referred to the Act of Parliament, which his hon. and learned Friend had omitted to do, and cited the Report of the Committee appointed by the
 957
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that his hon. and learned Friend the Solicitor General was quite correct in saying that nothing in the Act provided that the money in question was to be appropriated for any specific purpose. They were all agreed that the Patent Office should, while it lasted, be properly maintained. Whether or not the system should be continued as heretofore was for future discussion on the merits of the question.
 MR. BOVILL  said, he had made no such proposal as that the Vote should be postponed indefinitely until some comprehensive scheme was brought forward by some body. What he had suggested was that the attention of the Government should without delay be directed to the subject. and that it should be at once inquired into. If that were done, the Vote might be passed at the end of a week. Under the circumstances, he should move that it be postponed.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, that the Motion for the postponement of the Vote was one which could not be put in Committee.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he hoped the Motion would not be persevered with. If Progress were reported the Vote would of course come on again when the House went into Supply. The proper course for the hon. and learned Gentleman to pursue, objecting as he did to the Vote, was to ask that it should be negatived.
 MR. BOVILL  said, that it was perfectly competent to the Government to postpone the Vote.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought it would be well that his hon. and learned Friend should not pursue his opposition to the Vote further, but should be contented with the good service which he had already done in having brought the points to which he had called attention so forcibly under the notice of the Committee. He saw no alternative but to complete the enlargement of the building. Some might think that they had been remiss in passing so many Votes that night, but he thought they had done good service in getting the
 958
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he rose to state the effect of certain Resolutions which would have been moved before the vacation hut for the unexpected curtailment of the sitting of the House on the last evening. The Resolutions were five in number, and formed the preliminary operation necessary for the introduction of a Bill to give effect to them. The two first constituted the principal matter and occasion of the Act he proposed to introduce; but there would be several provisions in the Act of secondary importance which it was not necessary to refer to now. There was one provision, however, not of very great importance in effect, except as to its bearing on the local convenience of a portion of the community, and on the express desire of that House; and that related to the forestal rights of the Crown in Epping Forest, The effect of the provision would be to carry over the supervision of those forestal rights from the Office of Woods to the Office of Works. The Office of Woods was appointed for the management of property, and whatever expenses were undertaken by that office ought to be expenses which had a view simply to the good management of the properly. Within that definition the Department was not able to take any steps such as were desired by the House in
 959 960 961 "That the costs of improvements on Crown Lands within the meaning of the Improvement of Lands Act, 1864, may, with the consent of the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Treasury, from time to time be charged to the capital of the Land Revenues of the Crown, subject to such provisions as to repayment as may be prescribed by Parliament."
 MR. HENLEY  said, he supposed that the management of certain rights included the receipt of any profit from them?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes.
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, the hon. Gentle-man opposite had acted rightly in drawing attention to these grievances. Government deserved great credit for the way in which they had acted in this matter, as the grievances relating to the foreshores were very oppressive.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer what amount it might be assumed that Claremont would let for as it stood?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he would, of course, wait for the Bill. His remarks were entirely founded upon the Resolution before the House.
 MR. AYRTON  said, then it might be taken that they were about to add that sum to the Civil List granted to Her Majesty on her accession. It could scarcely be supposed that Her Majesty was dissatisfied with that settlement, and he was afraid that Her Majesty's name was used in this transaction in a way not calculated to give satisfaction to the country. They all knew that these Royal palaces were not used by the Queen herself, but were granted to people about the Court, and he was afraid that by the proposed grant great expense to the country would be incurred without any corresponding dignity being added to the Crown. He saw no necessity for making this addition to the Civil List.
 MR. AYRTON  said, the hon. Gentleman was in error, as the estate would be placed in the hands of the First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, whose duty it would be to let it to the highest bidder. What they were about to do was to add £1,200 per annum to the Civil List granted to Her Majesty. Her Majesty had a palace in London, another at Windsor, a third at Osborne, and a fourth in Scotland, and of course if she required another at Claremont for her personal use not the slightest objection would be offered to her having it. It was only necessary to state that Her Majesty
 965
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he was perfectly willing to give the Government credit for doing their best in the matter.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he understood the proposition to be a sort of adjustment between the property of the Crown and of the public, equalizing a liability on the one hand and a debt on the other. The property of the Crown and certain other matters frequently spoken of were all pure legal fiction, for the property of the Crown had been, since the settlement of 1688, arranged by the Civil List, and the Crown could not possibly resume that property. The foreshore rights were of an uncertain character originally, and had been sometimes exercised in a hostile manner to individuals.
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government that those portions of the Cattle Diseases Act which authorizes the slaughter of all cattle suffering from the plague shall be continued in force after the 15th of April?
 MR. READ : The provisions for compensation as well as the slaughter of cattle?
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to a subject concerning which he gave notice before the adjournment for the Easter recess. It was only the thin attendance of Members that prevented his bringing the matter forward on the day of the adjournment. He now desired to direct the attention of the House to the sixth section of the Report of the Sea Fisheries Commission, respecting the desirability of appropriating certain public grounds in estuaries, bays, and places of that nature within the three-mile limit—over which now the inhabitants of the country had a common right of fishing—to companies or individuals for the purpose of cultivating oysters. He was anxious to elicit the opinions and intentions of the Government in this matter, and he hoped the House would not think it was a subject unworthy its notice. The subject was one which in France had received to a great extent the attention of the Government, by whom certain regulations were made and certain conditions prescribed, under which persons were enabled to take possession of the foreshores for the purpose of oyster culture. The Commissioners, in their very able Report, referred to the amount of ground which was favourable for such culture in these kingdoms, enumerating among
 892 893
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, I have to state, in reply, that Sir James Wilde submitted to the Treasury early this year a plan for re-organizing the Registry of the Probate Court. Hitherto, officers have been appointed to specific duties at specific salaries, but no system of classification or annual increment in salary has been established. The Treasury were unable to take up the question at once from the pressure of other business, but the proposals were carefully considered and reported upon in March, and I hope before the end of this month that I shall be able to state the result to the House.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Government were doing their best to remedy the very grievance of which the hon. Gentleman complained with regard to the foreshores, Epping Forest, and certain commons. They proposed to transfer the management of the foreshores to the President of the Board of Trade, and that of Epping Forest to the First Commissioner of Works. The right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner had brought in a Bill removing all grievances with regard to the commons.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the system hitherto followed in promoting Assistant Surgeons to Battalion Surgeons in the Foot Guards has not been Regimental; whether there is any intention to change that system; and, if any change, is to be made, under what warrant?
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, the reason of the delay in giving effect to the suggestions made by the Judge of the Court of Probate to the Lords of Her Majesty's Treasury for the future regulation of the
 890
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, the subject had been under the consideration of the Government. The Board of Trade, without exactly pledging themselves to every recommendation urged by the Commissioners, were favourable generally to their objects with respect to the cultivation of oysters. There could be no doubt that there were portions of the bed of the sea within the marine league which might be appropriated to the cultivation of oysters, and over which exclusive right might be given to private persons without any disadvantage to the public. The question, as far as he had been able to form an opinion upon it, stood thus: If a portion of the bed of the sea were granted by the Crown there still remained to the public the right of fishing; and if any person having such grant of foreshore and bed of the at a with the marine league were to lay down au oyster ground, and to go to great ex-
 894
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that even if the palace were not granted to Her Majesty, the annual cost to the country for keeping up the place would far exceed the sum of £1,200 per annum, at which it was valued.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Yes.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the temporary provisions—those affecting the slaughter of cattle—which were to expire on the 15th of April, would continue in operation till the 10th of May.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman must, in conformity with the rules of the House, confine himself to the terms of the question which he intends to ask.
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  believed that in the case of the Great Yarmouth Election Committee, to which the hon. Member for Stockport had referred, no report had been made to the House like that which had just emanated from the Nottingham Election Committee.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, What information exists as to the amount of the aggregate income of the working men of this country, and on what basis that amount has been calculated?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am not aware of anything in the nature of information, or that can properly be called information, on the subject of the aggregate income of the working classes of this country. It is a matter which at various times has been made the subject of very interesting inquiries by statisticians, and there are certain materials upon which such inquiries may be based, particularly the enumeration in the Census of the different classes of labourers, and upon the knowledge of the numbers belonging to those different classes, and upon the knowledge of the wages usually received by them, computations may be made, but they are mere computations and ought not to be considered as in the nature of information. I never propounded, and I never should propound, anything of the sort as information. I have recently given an opinion upon it, and for financial purposes I have looked into the circumstances on former occasions, and I have given an opinion—I do not call it more than an opinion—upon a recent occasion, which I am bound to say I believe to be a very moderate conjecture, which I will maintain against all opponents—but I cannot claim for it any higher rank than that of an opinion.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, the building of those barracks was suspended for want of funds pending the completion of others of considerably more importance. No money has been taken for their construction this year in the Estimates, and it is impossible for we to say at what time it will be in the power of the Secretary of State to take money for the purpose. The project of building the barracks has not, at the same time, been abandoned.
 SIR JOHN GRAY  said—Sir, I rise to propose the Motion of which I gave notice some time since, for the purpose of asking this House to give its earnest attention to the subject of the Irish Church Establishment. I am conscious, Sir, that it involves many collateral questions, each one of which is of deep importance, not only to the Irish people, but to the English people, and possibly not very remotely to the Empire at large. No man who reflects upon the condition of the Church question in Ireland, affecting so large a number of the subjects of the Queen, can feel otherwise than that it is an important question to have considered, and one upon the decision of which much of the future of that country, and possibly something of the future honour of this country, must depend. The social position of the great mass of the Irish people is largely affected by that question. There is a large money question involved in the consideration of the revenues; but; that is as nothing compared with the great broad principle which is at stake—a principle which involves that which English-men have always held most dear, the right to worship God according to their consciences, and the right of being perfectly free and unfettered because of religious opinion. That right and that liberty I hold to be altogether inconsistent with the existence of the ascendancy of one class of religionists over another. In venturing to bring this question under the consideration of the House, I feel that, though there are important financial details to be considered, the great and paramount question that lies at the root of all is the ques-
 974 975 976 977 978 979 per se. 980 in globo 981 Cries of from the Opposition Benches. 982 "They neither read the Scriptures, nor preach to the people, nor administer the Communion." 983 "Only they take the tithes and offerings, and gather what fruit else they may of their livings, the which they convert as badly." "Some of them whose dioceses are in remote parts, somewhat out of the world's eye, do not at all bestow the benefices which are in their own donation upon any, but keep them in their own hands, and set up their own servants and horse-boys to take up the tithes and fruits of them, with which some of them purchase great lands and build fair castles upon the same." 984 "He doth live here now in these parts where he hath two bishoprics; but there is no divine service or sermon to be heard within either of his dioceses." "First for the fabrics, it is hard to say whether the churches he more ruinous and sordid, or the people irreverent, even in Dublin, the metropolis of this kingdom and seat of justice; we find one parochial church converted to the Lord Deputy's stable; a second to a nobleman's dwelling-house; the choir of a third to a tennis court, and the vicar acts as keeper. In Christ's Church, the principal church in Ireland, whither the Lord Deputy and Council repair every Sunday, the vaults from one end of the minister to the other are made into tippling rooms for beer, wine, and tobacco, demised all to Popish recusants, and by them and others so much frequented during time of Divine Service, that though there is no danger of blowing up the assembly above their heads, yet there is of poisoning them with the fumes. The table
 985 "The Irish Romanists had been reduced by various confiscations, and by intolerant statutes to protect a new race of proprietors, to a state of abject vassalage and degradation. In the reign of James I. the whole province of Ulster was confiscated. When Cromwell's power was consolidated by victory, the native Irish received orders to remove into Connaught, and were for bidden to repass the Shannon under pain of death. Their estates were divided amongst the conquerors, as were those of every one who had beer engaged in the rebellion, or who had acted as a partizan of the exiled Royal Family. In Ireland there were circumstances that prevented the gradual amalgamation of the pillaged and the pillagers." "William's Parliament, in addition to the English enactments against Romanists, disarmed them, banished their priests, forbade their marriages with Protestants, would not allow them to act as solicitors, or even as gamekeepers, and allowed any Protestant discoverer of a horse in their hands or power, to seize it under a magisterial warrant, and retain it on payment of £5 to its owner. Under Anne, Romanists were disabled from purchasing any of the for feited lands, and even from taking any lease of them beyond two acres. They were also rendered unable to purchase, inherit, or take by gift any lands in the hands of Protestants, and all their own lands were made descendible in gavel-kind, but if the eldest son embraced the established religion, his father was reduced to a tenancy for life, without power to sell or mortgage, or even to
 986 "The Reformation has not been rejected by Ireland, for it has never been fairly offered to Ireland. The Reformation has not failed in Ireland.… But those persons failed who managed its concerns in Ireland. England failed, morally failed, in her duty to God's truth and to Ireland at that time.… To serve her own worldly interest, she was untrue to God, to Ireland, and to herself. She made severe but abortive laws against Irish Roman Catholics, which made them more obstinate, but she did little to win them by milder measures." 987 Church History of Ireland, Mant's History of 988 the Church, "We, having Parliaments but seldom in Ireland, it might be supposed that there is occasion for many Acts to be passed when we do meet, all which are prepared in this Council and sent to that in England before they can be brought into our Parliament to be passed into laws. And my Lord Primate, being above eighty-seven years old, and almost deprived of sight and hearing, you cannot imagine but that the weight of business to prepare Bills to be passed into Acts of Parliament for the Church, which nobody but Churchmen will mind, hath lain, and still doth lay, heavy upon me, insomuch that for four months past I have not been able to command almost a minute's time from public business. And I thank God I have a great many Bills prepared for the good of our Church, whereof some are already passed, and the others I hope will suddenly be passed into laws for the better establishment of this poor distressed Church." "The following statutes, passed in the Parliament of 1697, were manifestly intended by the foregoing communication." "It was enacted that 'all Popish archbishops, vicars-general, deans, Jesuits, monks, friars, and other regular Popish clergy, and all Papists exercising any ecclesiastical jurisdiction, should depart out of the kingdom before the 1st of May, 1698, on pain of imprisonment till transportation, and that returning after transportation, they should be guilty of high treason.'" "Any Popish ecclesiastic not actually in the kingdom was prohibited to come in on pain of twelve months' imprisonment, to be followed by transportation, and of high treason if returning after being transported." 989 "All justices of the peace should, from time to time, issue their warrants for apprehending and committing all Popish ecclesiastics whatsoever that should remain in the kingdom contrary to the Act, and for suppressing all monasteries, friaries, nunneries, and other Popish fraternities and societies." "Any 'female' marrying a person not certified to be a Protestant, was by law declared to 'be incapable of holding their estates or interests, and the property pass to the next of kin, as it the heir were dead.' " "Any Protestant marrying a woman not certified to be a known Protestant, should be deemed a Papist or Popish recusant, and disabled from being heir, executor, administrator, or guardian, or from sitting in Parliament, or bearing office or employment, unless he should, within one year after such marriage, procure a certificate that his wife had renounced the Popish religion, and become a Protestant.'" "Any Popish priest or Protestant minister who shall marry any soldier to any wife without certificate of her being a Protestant, should forfeit £20 for every such offence." "If any common labourer, or other servant retained, shall refuse to work upon any other day than the several days mentioned, or than such days as shall be set apart by order of the King or chief governor, shall forfeit 2 s. s. 990 "The religion of the Papists is superstitious and idolatrous; their faith and doctrine erroneous and heretical; their Church, in respect to both, apostatical To give them, therefore, a toleration, or to consent that they may freely exercise their religion and profess their faith and doctrine, is a grievous sin " "Zealous, resolute, and courageous, against all Popery, superstition, and idolatry. Amen." 991 992 "I should flatter myself that as in this Bill we have not meddled with Papists, but only with persons professing themselves Protestants, the Foreign Minister cannot, with any reason or decency, make any application to his Majesty against this Bill." 993 Clerical Journal, 994 communibus annis. 995 "If we remember this important fact (that there are more civil parishes than benefices), the statement of which we have lately heard so much, that there are 199 parishes in Ireland without any Church population, loses all its significance. For whilst it may be perfectly true that there are some portions of benefices in this state, there is but a single benefice in all Ireland to be found, and that one particularly circumstanced, in which there are not several Members of the Established Church." 996 "Thus, then, we find the formidable statement that there are 199 parishes belonging to the Established Church in Ireland without any members of that communion, met, upon examination, by the undeniable fact that there was but one parish, in the ordinary sense of the word, in that position in all Ireland." "One Established Church 'benefice' in 1861 contained no Member of the Established Church, the income of which was payable to the incumbent." "There is no ground for appropriation clauses, and far less for the revolutionary and sacrilegious process of spoliation and confiscation."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The five parishes, is it?
 SIR JOHN GRAY : No; five benefices. One is in the archdiocese of Armagh, another is in the archdiocese of Dublin, and three in the diocese of Killaloe. [An hon. MEMBER: Does he give the names of the parishes?] He does not, but he sets them out in tables, as I am giving them to the House. In the table of benefices whose net income is from £100 to £200 per annum, he gives seven benefices without any Church population.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  asked if it were given as seven benefices without a Church population?
 SIR JOHN GRAY : I will rend it again for the hon. Member. [ Cries of
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  intimated it was not necessary.
 SIR JOHN GRAY : In the table of benefices whose net income is under £100 per annum, the Rev. Mr. Dwyer gives five benefices in the same condition, making altogether eighteen benefices without any Church population. It was positively stated by the Primate in his charge, and by the Rev. Dr. Lee in his pamphlet, which was represented as containing nothing but facts, and both which important documents had been extensively circulated, that there was only one benefice in Ireland which had no resident member of the State Church within its limits. The Rev. Mr. Dwyer, however, shows by his tables—tables prepared in support of the Church—that these eighteen "benefices"—not parishes, but "benefices"—were in that condition. He shows, too, that the incumbents had some £500 a year net income, some £300 a year net income, some £200, and some under £100 a year, these incomes being paid to incumbents for doing nothing. [ Cries of "Some are the sites of ancient monastic buildings, as St. Doologes in Ferns, which is only forty yards square, and the parishes of St. John of Jerusalem, and St. Dominick of Cork, one of
 998 999 1000 s. 1001 1002 "That dense population in extreme distress inhabited an island where there was an Established Church, which was not their Church, and a territorial aristocracy, the richest of whom lived is distant capitals. Thus they had a starving population, an absentee aristocracy, and an alien Church, and, in addition, the weakest Executive in the world. That was the Irish question. Well, then, what would hon. Gentlemen say if they were reading of a country in that position? They would say at once—the remedy is revolution; but the Irish could not have a revolution, and why? Bo-cause Ireland was connected with another and more powerful country. Then what was the consequence? The connection with England thus became the cause of the present state of Ireland. If the connection with England prevented a revolution, and a revolution were the only remedy, England logically was in the odious position of being the cause of all the misery in Ireland. What, then, was the duty of an English Minister? To effect by his policy all those changes which a revolution would do by force. That was the Irish question in its integrity.… The moment they had a strong Executive, a just administration, and ecclesiastical equality, they would have order in Ireland, and the improve-
 1003 "Do what they would for Ireland, so long as the Establishment remained there, it must be looked on by the bulk of the population as a badge of conquest and degradation.… How could they expect peace or harmony while they deliberately degraded a large portion of the community? There must be religious equality." 1004 1005 London Review, 1006 Ecclesiastical Directory 1007 1008
 COLONEL GREVILLE : In seconding the Motion of my hon. Friend I feel the difficulty of the task which we have undertaken. I know the prejudice which exists on this subject, and the disinclination of the House to deal with it—but it is one of such vast importance, and so nearly affects the well being of Ireland, and therefore the security of the Empire, that I am sure I shall not ask in vain for the kind indulgence of the House while I venture to make a few observations. I agree with the late Sir George Lewis, who states in his work on the Irish Church, that this is not a question of degree but one of principle. The objection is that provision should be made out of the public funds for the support of the clergy of the minority, while no provision is made for the clergy of the majority. The right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) said, last Session, that Ireland was the Question of Questions—and that she was bound to us by a tie which we would perish rather than allow any one to break. If that be true, as I doubt not it is, then surety it must be admitted that it is our doubt to remove all impediments to her prosperity which have been created by us, and to endeavour to place her in as good a position as other more favoured portions of the Empire. As a Protestant, a member of the Church of England, I rejoice to think that I am not precluded from taking part in this debate by any oath to which I have subscribed, and I hope the day is not far distant when it will be out of the power of even the Member for North Warwickshire (Mr. Newdegate) to say that any Member of this House, be his religious creed what it may, is debarred from taking part in our deliberations on this subject. I hope that ere long we may all take the same oath at that table with equal rights and equal responsibilities. Irish Members have often been challenged to point out the grievances under which Ireland labours. The Irish Church Establishment is a grievance. Our most eminent statesmen have, with wonderful accord, admitted it, and have used, some of them, very strong language on this subject. Now, what is the state of Ireland as to Ecclesiastical matters. You have the Church of England, established by law, in the exclusive enjoyment of the whole
 1009 Constitutional History of England, 1010 English Government and Constitution, "The measure introduced in 1835, granting a portion of the Church revenues of Ireland to pur-
 1011 1012 "Regarding the Church of England as a body of individual clergy in that country, we have taken ample guarantees for their continued enjoyment of the stipend now allotted to them, and we have the full concurrence of the Legislature and the Executive of Canada in doing so.… But looking at the Church of England not as a collection of individual clergy but as an establishment, as an incorporated institution; if you ask us to maintain a Church Establishment in Canada against the wishes of the people of that country, I, for one, would shrink from such an undertaking. If you were to engage in it, I undertake to say that you would never issue from it with either credit or success. I am convinced, Sir, that we are taking the right course even in the interests of the Church of England herself."—[3  Hansard, "The other Act of the Imperial Parliament removes the restrictions which have for some time past prevented the Provincial Legislature from dealing with the Clergy reserves. From an early period in the history of Upper Canada this provision, which was originally intended for the support of the Protestant faith, has been a source of discord and agitation in that section of the province. It is most desirable, in the interest of religion and social harmony, that a final and conclusive adjustment of this long pending controversy should take place without delay." 1013 1014 1015 "For all the ends of government the nations are one, and why? The nations are one for all the ends of government, because in their union the true ends of government alone were kept in sight, The nations are one because the Churches are two." Church and State. 1016
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Sir, my position on the present occasion as representing Her Majesty's Government is very different from that of the hon. Mover and Seconder of this Resolution, who have placed their views on this vital subject so ably before the House. It is also very different from the position of those hon. Gentlemen who will follow me in this debate. The hon. Mover and Seconder have brought this subject forward in the shape of a Resolution, as has been done on other occasions, and as they were fully entitled to do—a Resolution which in their hands is an instrument proper and legitimate for raising a discussion in this House, and ascertaining the amount of Parliamentary support which their proposal is likely to obtain. But a Resolution of this kind, however carefully it may be worded, would, if adopted by Her Majesty's Government, become not an instrument of discussion, but of immediate action. It would be contrary to the duty of the Government to take such a Resolution into their hands unless they saw their way to use it for the purpose of action, and of bringing about an important change in our institutions, if not immediately, yet within a brief period, and with a distinct view not only of what should be undone, but of what should be done—not only of what is to be pulled down, but also of what is to be built up—and with a distinct knowledge of the state of public opinion no only in England and
 1017 1018 1019 1020 1021 1022
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  said, that some years ago he expressed his opinion at length upon the subject before the House, and he would now reiterate his determination to sustain in its integrity the position of the Church of England and Ireland as now established by law. The views to which he gave utterance on the occasion he referred to had been confirmed by the ex-
 1023 "Quo res cunque cadent, unum et commune periclum, Una salus ambobus erit." 1024 1025
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART : * 1026 1027 1028 1029 1030 1031 1032 "Where is the knowledge—where the wisdom—and where the goodness which combine to form a great man? I know of no man who approaches to this character except Whately, and he is taken away from the place where he was wanted, and sent where the highest greatness would struggle in vain against the overpowering disadvantages of his position." 1033 per se, "—immedicabilc vulnus Ense recidendum est ne pars sincere trahetur." 1034
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he had listened with a great deal of pain to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, because he had anticipated, after the statements which had been made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Government would have taken a very different course on this subject. But be now found that Her Majesty's Government had no more intention of dealing with the grievance of the Irish Church than those Governments with which we had recently been blessed. Last year when his hon. Friend the Member for Swansea (Mr. Dillwyn) made a Motion analogous to that they were now discussing, he (the O'Donoghue) had endeavoured to treat the Irish Church in a manner the most fair, practical, and intelligible, and at the same time to avoid all topics which were either irrelevant or calculated only to embitter the conflict of opinion. Now, as then, he approached the question with a certain amount of reluctance, because he was aware that many of his countrymen regarded the proposed interference with the Irish Established Church almost as an attack on themselves. On the other hand, it was consolatory to reflect that never was there a period when sectarian animosity prevailed less than at present; and, consequently, there never was a period when the public mind was more favourably disposed to consider and adjudicate on this question, which was most important in itself, and was well-known to excite the absorbing sympathies of millions. There was a growing predisposition to discuss the question of the Established Church in Ireland and dispose of it in some way or other. This, no doubt, on the whole, was a most cheering symptom; although, in his mind, at least, it was qualified by the reflection that it might be so disposed of that it would be much better to leave it for some time longer in its original position. He felt it, therefore, incumbent on him to declare that his object in dealing with the Irish Church Establishment was twofold—he was anxious not only to settle the question, but to settle it in the only way that could be satisfactory to the vast majority of the Irish people, and the sincere advocates of religious equality among Her Majesty's sub-
 1035 1036 1037 1038 1039 1040 1041 1042
 MR. WHITESIDE : I have listened, Sir, to this debate with great interest, and I have been especially pleased with the speech which we have just heard. It was manly and it was distinct. The hon. Gentleman by whom it was delivered fairly and honestly claimed the property of the Church in Ireland for what he calls national purposes, irrespective of any law which exists to the contrary; irrespective of anything in our history or in our legislation. He is of opinion that no law ought for a moment to interpose between the just demands of a nation and their satisfaction, I quite understand him. Nobody can mistake his proposal, and I place it at the outset of my remarks in pleasing contrast with the speech delivered by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) on behalf of Her Majesty's Government, The right hon. Gentleman has laid down the doctrine this evening that it is not the duty of the Government to defend the institutions of the country, but to show how. on the eve of an important discussion, a vote may be obtained from Gentlemen who have a vote to give and who, if they follow the Ministerial advice given them by the right hon. Gentleman, and "agitate, agitate, agitate," may ultimately succeed in attaining the object of their wishes. This is undoubtedly a new policy to be initiated by the Ministers of a great country. The right hon. Gentleman, in effect, says, "My sympathies are with the Motion; my feelings are in accord
 1043 1044 1045 1046 "That the Church Establishment in Ireland is a grievous wrong to the people of that country; and its continued maintenance prevents them from having confidence in the justice or in the wisdom of the Imperial Parliament." "That the position of the Established Church in Ireland is a just cause of dissatisfaction, and urgently demands the consideration of Parliament." "We demand the disendowment of the Established Church in Ireland as a condition without which social peace and stability, general respect for the laws, and unity of sentiment and of action for national objects can never prevail in Ireland." 1047 "My dear Lord Mayor,—I am glad to see that an effort is to be made to force on some political advance in your country. The objects you aim at are good, and I hope you may succeed. On the question of landlord and tenant I think you should go further, and seek to do more" (no doubt they will follow that advice). "What you want in Ireland is to break down the laws of primogeniture and entail." "So that in course of time by a gradual and just process the Irish people may become the possessors of the soil of Ireland." "A legal security for tenants' improvements will be of great value, but your true remedy for your great grievance is to base the laws which affect the land upon sound principles of political economy." 1048 "With regard to the State Church, that is an institution so evil and so odious under the circumstances of your country, that it makes one almost hopeless "—(Oh! quite so)—"almost hopeless of Irish freedom now that Irishmen have borne it so long." "The whole Liberal party in Great Britain will doubtless join with you in demanding the removal of a wrong which has no equal in the character of a national insult in any other civilized and Christian country in the world. If the popular party in Ireland would adopt as its policy 'free land and free Church,' and would unite with the popular party in England and Scotland for the advance of Liberal measures, and especially"—(now, of course, we know what is coming)—"and especially for the promotion of a honest amendment of the representation of the people, I am confident that great and beneficial changes might be made within a few years." Cries of 1049 1050
 SIR JOHN GRAY : I do not think the right hon. Gentleman has a right to make statements which, if he had taken the trouble to make any inquiry, he would find to be totally adverse to the facts. The Papal Legate, as he is pleased to call him—["Order, order!"]
 MR. WHITESIDE : The hon. Gentleman misconceives. I read in his own journal that the Resolution, the terms of which I have given to the House, was proposed by Archbishop Cullen himself. I am not inaccurate in that statement, because I always look into the highly respectable journal with which the hon. Member is connected, the reports of which are most precise and copious upon any questions of this nature. I will merely assert that the Motion so proposed was unanimously adopted, and I am sure the hon. Member for Tipperary (Mr. Billon), whose very dashing speech in the association (which did not mince matters as to the Church, or, in-
 1051 "I further feel that the Protestant Establishment in Ireland is the very cement of the Union. I find it interwoven with all the essential relations and institutions of the two kingdoms, and I have no hesitation in admitting that if it were destroyed the very foundations of public security would be shaken, the connection between England and Ireland dissolved, and the annihilation of private property must follow the ruin of the property of the Church." 1052 "True, the Established Church in Ireland does not carry with it the majority of the people of that country, but it is interwoven with the State, and it is a safeguard of the Union." "The Catholics are demanding admission to a Protestant State. I will admit them; but if they combine to overthrow the institutions of the country, I am prepared to re-enact the Penal Code." "The evil which he apprehended from such a Bill passing would not be immediate, but it would be inevitable, and would come upon the country in a manner little expected. It was not the immediate object of the Catholics to possess themselves of the property of the Established Church. They were too wary to proceed openly and directly in any such design. No, their object was in the first instance merely to diminish the property of the Church. What was the language held out by one of their great authorities, Dr. Doyle, upon this very point, 'that he did wish to decrease the magnitude of the possessions of the Church,' but he wished it not as a priest, but as an Irishman? Was any man so blind, was any man so deaf, was any man so lost to all the benefit of experience, as not to know what such language really means? Was any man so thoroughly ignorant of the course of human actions as not to know that when once the property of the Church was violated under any such pretence it would soon be seized upon, and that such was the real object of Catholic cupidity? The most invidious way in which the Catholics could possibly set about their work was to say—' Take the property of the Established Church and give it the public for the general benefit of the country.' For when once the property of the Protestant hierarchy was invaded and impaired by such an artful attack, it required but little wisdom to foretel what would befal the remainder of its rights and possessions." 1053 "Have you any reason to think that in the minds of any part of the Roman Catholic clergy there exists any hope or any wish to interfere with the temporal possessions of the Established Church?—Not the least; there is no wish on the part of the Roman Catholic clergy to disturb the present Establishment or to partake of any part of the wealth it enjoys.—Question: Nor any objection to give the most full and entire assurance on that subject that may be required of them?—Not the least." "With these tenets, how is it possible for a Roman Catholic clergy to engage for the maintenance of a Protestant Establishment? The witness answers—'They engage for the maintenance of the temporal Establishment such as it is made by law, and as citizens they deem it a duty to support the law.'" 1054 bonâ fide bonâ fide; 1055 1056 "Was the right of appointing to the Roman Catholic Bishops ever practically exercised by James II.?" "Yes, I should think it was; and also by Mary, previous to the accession of the Stuarts." "Do you think it was exercised by James II. before his arrival in Ireland?" "Yes, during the entire of his reign." "After his abdication do you think he practically exercised that right?" "I am sure that after his abdication or expulsion from these islands he did recommend, while in France, individuals to the Pope, which individuals were appointed to bishoprics in Ireland; and not only he but his son after him." 1057 "Why are not the clergy of the Roman Catholic Church provided for?" "If we provide for the parochial clergy the regulars may come into some parishes and become more popular than the parish priests; so that you would have the same evil over again." 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064 "My Lord Sydney wrote to Leicester, 'No Attila nor Totila, nor Vandal or Goth that ever lived was more to be doubted for overrunning any part of Christendom than this man for overrunning and spoiling of Ireland. If it be an angel of Heaven that will say that ever O'Neil will be a good subject till he be thoroughly chastised, believe him not, but think him a spirit of error. Her Majesty must make up her mind to the expense, and chastise this cannibal.'" 1065 "But if this province of Ulster could be once settled as it ought to be, which would be a Royal act, and a great glory to His Majesty's times, then were all occasions for great revolts quite taken away: everywhere from thence the land would be peopled and improved, the King's revenues in time strained up and increased, and those of his Majesty's other dominions more converted and spent upon themselves." "The Commissioners are to limit and bound out the precincts of their several parishes according to their discretion, notwithstanding the limitation of the precinct; wherein they may observe the ancient limits of the old parishes so as the same breed not a greater inconvenience to the plantation; and to assign to the incumbent of each parish a glebe, after the rate of three score acres for every 1,000 acres within the parishes in the most convenient places or nearest to the churches; and for the more certainty to give such glebe a certain name, whereby it may be known, and to take order that there be a proviso in the letters patent for passing the glebes, to restrain the alienations thereof, saving during incumbencies." "All which lands were lately assigned by the Commissioners for the Plantation of Ulster for the augmentation of glebes and the maintenance of persons having cure of souls; to hold for ever in free, pure, and perpetual alms for all services; with a covenant for the building of glebe-houses." 1066 1067 1068
 SIR HENRY HOARE  would remind hon. Gentlemen who opposed this Resolution that all agitation founded on the principles of justice must eventually succeed, and that the minority of to-day became the majority of to-morrow; and that it was far wiser and more statesmanlike to concede voluntarily that which was due to justice than to yield it at last from fear of consequences. It had been argued that the revenues of the Irish Church were inalienable. But the right of the Legislature to interfere with the disposition of ecclesiastical property had been affirmed over and over again, and that by large majorities. The Irish Church Temporalities Act of 1833 took away about £60,000 from the revenues of that Church, and by the Tithe Commutation Act of 1838 another portion of them was transferred to the pockets of the landlords. So
 1069 1070
 MR. DEPUTY SPEAKER  said, that the Bill only affected the temporalities of the Church, and that, therefore, it was not necessary for him to leave the Chair.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the observations which had just fallen from his lion. Friend called but for a word or two from him in reply. He was very glad his hon. Friend had not made the Motion of which he had given notice, though how far the course which he had adopted in order to place himself in order was regular or not he would not undertake to say. As to one point, however, he l wished to state that there had been no change in the position of the Government; although there might have been a change produced relatively in the mind of his hon. Friend. The Government never had any other intention than to stand or fall by the measure which they proposed, and the only point as to which they felt it to be their duty to make any reservation was the question of time.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I wish, in order to prevent any misunderstanding upon the subject, to explain an observation made last night in reference to Claremont House. Claremont will not by the effect of the proposed Resolutions be added to the list of the Royal Palaces, as that would entail a large expenditure and the necessity for an annual Vote to meet that expenditure; whereas no such Vote is contemplated. The effect of the clauses will simply be to place Claremont at the disposal of her Majesty, to make whatever use of it She may think fit, either during her lifetime or during such shorter period as She may think proper.
 MR. CHILDERS  thought the Bill ought to have been considered more with reference to the scale of superannuations in public offices than it appeared to have been, but he would not oppose the second reading.
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  explained that the measure had been framed upon the precedent set two years ago with reference to officers of the Poor Law Board.
 MR. KINNAIRD  hoped that the right hon. Gentleman would not renew the railings in Palace Gardens, as they would compel every one to make a circuit in going from the House to the proposed new railway station.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any intention of causing the inclosure in Leicester Square to be turned into a garden or ornamental ground, under the provisions of the Gardens in Towns Protection Act, 1863? He also wished to know, whether the equestrian statue within the inclosure is one of the public statues committed to the hon. Gentleman's care under another Act of Parliament?
 MR. COWPER , in reply, said, the Act of 1863 imposed no duties whatever upon himself or upon the office he held; but as regarded Leicester Square, the Metropolitan Board of Works had power to execute the provisions of the Act. His hon. Friend doubtless knew that he (Mr. Cowper) had no control over that body, and he was not responsible for their proceedings. He was, however, happy to furnish his hon. Friend with what information he possessed on the subject, and he could state that the Metropolitan Board had put up a notice in Leicester Square in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and that had been followed by legal proceedings being instituted against, the Board. Those proceedings were instituted by the gentleman who claimed possession of the soil of Leicester Square, and probably the case would be decided shortly. With regard to the statue, which had only one leg and one arm, it was not under his (Mr. Cowper's) jurisdiction. It was private property, and it seemed that the person to whom it belonged had not taken that decent care of it which he ought to have done.
 MR. COWPER  explained that the ordinary expenditure on the Houses of Parliament was the same as hitherto, the £21,000 extra being applied to New Palace Yard and the Clock Tower which had been left unfinished. It would, he expected, require an additional Vote another year to complete the work. St. Stephen's Crypt, which had been devoted to various purposes at different periods, was to be restored to its original use as the chapel of the Palace. The new railing and other works in Parliament Square must now be undertaken on account of the railway which was about to cut through the inclosure. With regard to the discrepancies between some of the statues in Westminster Palace, and the niches made to receive them, the niches were designed by Sir Charles Barry, and were intended for Gothic statues of narrow dimensions, and the alteration in the character of the statues had compelled the alteration in the niches; but the work would be under the direction of Mr. Barry, and would be made to harmonize with the other decorations. Four of the statues were completed, and seven were nearly finished. Although it probably would have been better that the niches in question should have been altered some twenty years ago, the time had now arrived when it was absolutely essential that they should be altered. He was rather surprised to hear the hon. and learned Member for Whitehaven speak in the way he had done in disparagement of the noble frescoes in the Royal Gallery, which were the admiration of all persons versed in art. If the hon. Gentleman did not admire them, it was owing to his want of knowledge of what was required in a fresco. The hon. and learned Gentleman had also complained that one of the pictures was of rather a sanguinary character, but he should like to know how it was possible to represent a battle without introducing
 1075
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, in fulfilment of the promise given by Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, any measure has been prepared to give compensation to those persons whose cattle have been killed under the Orders of the Privy Council previous to the passing of the Act of this Session; and, if so, when that measure will be introduced?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to know, whether the Government have taken any steps to ascertain the various particulars which they deem to be necessary to become acquainted with before arriving at a determination on the subject of his Question?
 MR. AYRTON , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill to appropriate a portion of the income from the Finsbury Estate of the suppressed Stall of Finsbury for the relief of the spiritual destitution in the metropolis, said, that many years ago the Ecclesiastical Commission was set up to watch over the application of the surplus funds of the Church and to provide for the religious necessities of the people. Since then great progress had no doubt been made in carrying out the objects for which the Commission was established; and, while a great amount of property had been vested in the Commission, some consideration had been extended to the claims of the places in which that property was situated. But the case of the metropolis presented peculiar features, which had not hitherto been taken into view in dealing with that matter. In respect to the country at large, local claims were sufficiently recognized when the interests of the particular parish in which ecclesiastical property was situated were provided for by the Commissioners; whereas, as regarded the metropolis ecclesiastical property was situated where there might be the greatest affluence, while on the other hand great spiritual destitution existed in other parts of the town where there happened to be no ecclesiastical property. The consequence was that the most destitute districts of London derived very little benefit from the great amount of ecclesiastical endowments existing in the metropolis, and which were from time to time transferred to the Ecclesiastical Commission. A most remarkable example of that was presented by the endowments of the suppressed stall of Finsbury. Many years ago the property of the stall was leased to the corporation of London. The estate then consisted of a tract of land of comparatively small value; but now houses of a high class had been built upon it, and it produced a revenue of about £50,000 per annum. At present the corporation of London received five-sixths of that revenue, and the other sixth was paid over to the Ecclesiastical Coramis-
 1071
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to put a Question to the Under Secre-
 970 St. Abbs
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE : Then, I wish to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Foreign Office have received any Despatches to justify the hope that there are some survivors of the ship  St. Abbs,
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, he could assure his hon. Friend that the Government felt the deepest sympathy for the families of those persons to whom his Question referred, and who were supposed, he was afraid on insufficient grounds, to be alive. The wreck of the ship  St. Abbs 971 St. Abbs
 MR. BENTINCK  asked for explanations as to the increase in the Vote for the Houses of Parliament, the proposed ornamental railing in Parliament Square, and the intended application of St Stephen's Crypt.
 MR. HADFIELD  thought it desirable that some prompt power should be given to the Chairman of a Committee to issue a warrant for the apprehension of a witness who disobeyed the Speaker's Warrant. A person who would bribe an elector was quite competent to bribe a person not to appear before a Committee.
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, whether it is the intention of the Government to maintain the prohibition of the conveyance of cattle by Railway after the 16th April; and, if so, whether the northern counties of Scotland, where the plague does not exist, might be allowed to send cattle to the south by Railway so long as they remained free from disease?
 MR. LOCKE  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Sir Robert Clifton), he
 973
 MR. OLIPHANT  said, he wished to make some remarks in reference to the Notice he had placed upon the paper—
 "That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that She will be graciously pleased to issue a Royal Commission for the purpose of collecting such statistical information as may supply a basis for determining whether any and what alterations should be made in the present boundaries of Boroughs and in the existing distribution of Seats in the Commons' House of Parliament. 1073
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that the object of the Bill was a very good one, being to provide for the spiritual wants of portions of the metropolis otherwise unprovided for. It would, however, be necessary for the Government to look into the principle, not only of the Bill, but of the Ecclesiastical Commission Act, the object of which was to form a common fund for the general benefit of the whole country. If special claims on that common fund were to be
 1072
 MR. WATKIN  asked, whether it was usual to make such a Motion in cases of that kind; because he recollected that that course had not been followed in the case of Great Yarmouth, when two important witnesses, who were both served with the Speaker's Warrant, had absented themselves.
 MR. POWELL  called attention to the incongruity between the statues and the niches in the Royal Gallery, and inquired what portion of English history it was intended to illustrate.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, it was not proposed to continue beyond the 16th of April the absolute prohibition of the removal of cattle by railway. It was proposed to substitute for that prohibition regulations authorizing their removal under certain restrictions.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that no inquiries had as yet been made as to what sums, if any, had already been paid to the persons to whom the noble Lord referred. No time would be lost in instituting the necessary inquiries on the subject.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the promise referred to by the noble Lord was that the subject should receive further consideration. It was necessary that minute inquiry should, in the first instance, be made with a view to ascertain not only the value of the animals, but the circumstances under which they were slaughtered. When that inquiry had been completed it would be for the Government to determine what course they should take.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government would not oppose the introduction of the Bill, the object of which was one of great importance. They would, however, reserve to themselves the consideration of its provision at a future stage. He might mention that a similar case had occurred with regard to the appropriation of two stalls at Windsor to the Military Knights of Windsor and the endowment of the parish church. But great care was requisite in legislating upon a subject of this nature.
 MR. ADAIR , from the Select Committee appointed to try the Nottingham Town Election Petition, informed the House, That it appeared from evidence adduced before the Committee on Monday the 2nd day of April, that James Pringle having been duly summoned by the Speaker's Warrant, had disobeyed such Warrant, and had not appeared before the said Committee. He begged, therefore, to move that James Pringle, having been duly summoned by the Speaker's Warrant to attend the said Committee, and having disobeyed such Warrant, had been guilty of a contempt and breach of the privileges of that House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought it was desirable that there should be no misunderstanding upon one point. His hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Childers) did not intend to convey to the House that, because the Post Office was a revenue department, therefore it was improper that the representative of it should sit in the House of Commons. He understood that the Bill which had been brought in by the hon. Gentleman opposite was not for the purpose of laying down, by implication or otherwise, any rule that the Postmaster General should sit in either that House or the House of Lords. He understood the argument of the hon. Gentleman (Mr.
 1082
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he regretted that he felt it his duty to oppose the further progress of the Bill. He gave notice that he would do so when the Bill was introduced; and, after full consideration of the subject, he was satisfied that, instead of improving the present state of the law, it would re-enact many grievances that had been got rid of, would be exceedingly unpopular, and would put obstacles in the way of progress. It had always struck him that the practical character of the English mind was less exemplified in the local taxation of the country than in any other public institution. It might have been expected that in a country so heavily taxed as England, where complaints of heavy taxation were so numerous, that a reasonable mode of making the collection and rendering the incidence of such taxation as light as possible by a sensible and economical arrangement would be adopted. It would, further, naturally be expected that a course similar to that a
 1085 1086 1087 1088
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, that the great principle of the Bill was to assimilate the law of Scotland to that of England in reference to the subject in question. He did not consider the measure at all so unreasonable as the Lord Advocate seemed to suppose. The people of Scotland were much indebted to his right hon. Friend opposite for that most valuable measure, which had been enacted some few years ago, for the establishment of the valuation roll, by which the annual value of all property in the country was recorded in the clearest manner. That measure would ever be honourably associated with his name. But so far from this Bill tending to interfere with the operation of the measure of 1854; he (Sir James Fergusson) ventured to say that it would remedy the few little defects of that Act. The grievance complained of by various interests was that the gross assessment was made, not upon the clear annual value of the property, but upon the value determined by certain deductions. His right hon. Friend had characterized the whole system of local taxation, whether in Scotland or in England, as something approaching to barbarism; but it should be remembered that, though there might be some things incidental to local taxation which might be anomalous, still there was much that was anomalous that was found convenient in working; and it was not sufficient to condemn a system to say that it was not formed upon the utmost conditions of symmetry and theory. Was it better to sweep away the whole of an existing system, or to alter it where alteration was necessary? He thought it was better to make the necessary alterations. He could not believe that the House would legislate in an exceptional manner with regard to Scotland in this matter. In 1865 the subject was examined by a Select Committee, and if the evidence then taken was insufficient, it was the duty of the Government, who were represented on that Committee, to have perfected it, and not now to complain, when the Report was being considered, that the evidence was partial. Various skilled witnesses who were called before that Committee stated that they could see no difficulty in making these deductions, except in the labour which it would involve, and that difficulty would decrease each year as the system came into operation. He was surprised to hear his right hon. Friend state that the income tax was levied on the gross valuation, and
 1090
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he was a Member of the Committee which sat last year. He could not but regret that the subject had again been pressed upon the attention of Parliament after what had taken place last Session. It appeared to him that the only mode of arriving at a valuation of property which should be at all satisfactory, was one that would rest upon the gross value. The Land Valuation Bill, which had been introduced by the Lord Advocate in 1854, had been attended with great advantages. He (Mr. Leslie) had watched with the greatest interest the working of that Act, both in his own county and in others, and he ventured to say that nowhere was its operation complained of. He would oppose the present Bill because he believed that it rested
 1091
 MR. ADAM  said, that with the object of supplying an accidental omission on the part of the Lord Advocate, he moved, as an Amendment, that the Bill be read a second time on this day six months.
 MR. BAXTER  said, that he was convinced, by the admirable statement of the Lord Advocate in 1864, of the propriety of making some such change in the law as that now proposed, and he thought it rather hard that the learned Lord should now, in a speech far inferior to that in point of argument, ask the House to reconsider that statement. The reply of the hon. Baronet (Sir James Fergusson) to the learned Lord's present speech was most satisfactory and conclusive.
 SIR JOHN OGILVY  said, he was in favour of the principle of the Bill.
 MR. GRAHAM  said, the hon. Member for Greenock alluded to only one source of opposition to his Bill—that of private companies—the fact was that the opposition arose from various sources, and, as far as he could understand, its advocacy came from one source only—that of the railway companies. If it was necessary, from the peculiar nature of railway property, that it should be subject to exemption from the general rule, by all means let their case be considered, and let a separate Bill be brought in for their interests; but why should the whole valuation system of Scotland be disturbed to suit their interests, when no other parties wished for a change? Far from there being one source of opposition only, he had himself been requested to oppose it on the part of the justices of the peace of the largest and most important county in Scotland, on the part of the corporation of Glasgow, the greatest and most important corporation of Scotland, and on the part of the Convention of Royal Burghs.
 MR. DUNLOP  said, that he could not admit that the House was asked to enter upon a new course. On the contrary, they were following up the provisions of the Act, which took the valuation out of the hands of local bodies, and placed it in the hands of a general assessor appointed by Government. As the object desired was to ascertain the real value of property, he
 1092
 MR. MACKIE  said, that the Bill was altogether uncalled for. It would, if passed, cause great dissatisfaction to people in the south of Scotland.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that before moving that the Deputy Speaker do leave the Chair, perhaps it would be convenient that he should make some statement to the House as to the scope of the Bill under consideration, not having had that opportunity on the second reading. He should not have allowed the Bill to reach this stage without that statement had he thought it involved any important new
 1094 1095 "Have you any doubt that successful vaccination confers on persons subject to its influence a very large exemption from attacks of small pox, and almost absolute security against death by that disease?" "Have you any reason to believe or suspect that vaccinated persons, in being rendered less susceptible of small pox, become more susceptible of any other infective disease or of phthisis, or that their health is in any other way disadvantageously affected?" 1096 "Have you any reason to believe or suspect that lymph from a true Jennerian vesicle has ever been a vehicle of syphilitic, scrofulous, or other constitutional infection to the vaccinated person, or that unintentional inoculation with some other disease, instead of the proposed vaccination, has occurred in the hands of a duly educated medical practitioner?" "Do you (assuming due provisions to exist for a skilful performance of the operation) recommend that, except for special reasons in individual cases, vaccination should be universally performed at early periods of life?" 1097 "That the fatality of small pox, when it attacks the unvaccinated, is 350 per 1,000; that its fatality to such vaccinated persons as it infects is, taking them indiscriminately, 70 per 1,000; but, distinguishing vaccinated persons into two classes, those (1) who have been vaccinated in the best known manner, and those (2) who have been badly vaccinated, the fatality of small pox, if it infects the former, will be 5 per 1,000; if it infects the latter, 150 per 1,000; that the risk of the one will be thirty times the risk of the other." "Number of deaths per cent in each class respectively—1. Unvaccinated, 37. 2. Stated to have been vaccinated, but having no cicatrix, 23·57. 3. Vaccinated—having one vaccine cicatrix, 7·73; having two vaccine cicatrices, 4·70; having three vaccine cicatrices, 1·95; having four or more vaccine cicatrices, 0·55; having well-marked cicatrices, 2·52; having badly-marked cicatrices, 8·82. 4. Having previously had small pox, 19." 1098 1099 Vict. "To take the most effectual means for giving from time to time to all persona resident within such district due notice of the days and hours at which the medical officer or practitioner contracted with for such purpose will attend at such place to vaccinate." 1100 1101 d. d. d. d., 1102 "Those who have had most to do with the performance of vaccination, on the one hand, and those who have been most concerned in the treatment of infantile disease, on the other, concur in the belief of the non-communicability of disease by vaccination, Mr. Marson, in the performance of 50,000 vaccinations and more, 'has never seen other diseases communicated with the vaccine disease, nor does he believe in the popular reports that they are so communicated.' Such, also, was the experience of the late Mr. Leese, whose opportunities of observation were scarcely, if any, less. Dr. W. Jenner stated some years ago that at University College Hospital and at the Hospital for Sick Children he had had, in six years, more than 13,000 sick adults and children under observation, and that in no case had he reason to believe, or even to suspect, that any constitutional taint had been conveyed from one person to another by vaccination. Dr. West's experience of 26,000 infants and children under his care in seventeen years is to the like effect; in stating that he has seen nothing in that time to make him believe that vaccination excites cutaneous eruptions in any but very exceptional cases, he refers such exceptional eases to a disposition in the children themselves, brought out by the vaccination as it might have been by teething. And Professor Paget, speaking from his large experience among children in the out-patients' room at St. Bartholomew's, and enumerating some of the causes which develop cutaneous diseases in young children, says, 'Now, vaccination may do, though I believe it very rarely does, what these several accidents may do—namely, by disturbing for a time the general health, it may give opportunity for the external manifestation and complete evolution of some constitutional affection, which, but for it, might have remained rather longer latent. This is,' he adds, 'the worst thing that can with any show of reason be charged against vaccination; even this can very seldom be charged with truth.'" 1103
 MR. HENLEY  said, he believed that in many parts of the country there was a strong wish and disposition to see the question of vaccination put upon a footing more satisfactory than that it at present occupied. They had listened with interest to the speech just made, but he was afraid it contained many statements which would not pacify people's minds. One remarkable statement was that there had been an examination of 500,000 children belonging to the humbler classes. They were the class who were principally affected by what was called compulsory vaccination. Of the number so examined, only one in eight were found to have been perfectly vaccinated. This fact involved the further fact that seven out of eight were imperfectly vaccinated, or not vaccinated at all. The Bill provided that all children under thirteen not perfectly vaccinated were to be laid hold of and vaccinated again. ["No!"] He might have read the Bill wrongly, but he read it so. If only one in eight had been perfectly vaccinated, great doubt would come upon many people's minds as to what the others might have been vaccinated with—what the virus or lymph might have been that had been put into them. The right hon. Gentleman said that if you catch a child at a particular time the lymph is not good. This Bill contained no provision to obviate what was greatly complained of in the country—namely, the want of security not only that a medical man had necessary skill and experience, but that he obtained the proper lymph, or whatever it was that was necessary for the operation. Under the Bill you might catch a boy twelve years old and compel him to drink, but there was no statutory provision to prevent his being compelled to drink poison. This was the great defect in the Bill.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that under the Act of 1858 (the Public Health Act)
 1104
 MR. HENLEY  said, he was aware of these facts; but he must still ask, what became of the matter taken at a certain time from a child's arm? The failure in seven cases out of eight must arise from the arrangements as to districts preventing interchange between one vaccinated and one wanting to be. It was no answer to speak of the quantity of lymph which had been supplied. He might be wrong, but he knew the public impression was that there had been great difficulty in getting good vaccine, and he did not find in the Bill any security for the quality of the vaccine. If vaccination were to be compulsory, the question was, would the Bill improve the manner of doing it? One of the great blots upon the Bill was, that it failed to provide the security he had indicated. He believed that no service was well done unless it were well paid for. That was his firm belief, although the view might be a low one, and he believed that one of the main reasons why vaccination had been less successful than it otherwise might have been was that the public vaccinators had not been sufficiently paid. Time was of value to everybody, and medical men and lawyers thought more of it than others. When a man went three or four miles to a place where a lot of children were gathered together and was only paid a small sum per head, we knew very well that it was in human nature he would be apt to discharge his duties in a perfunctory manner. He believed that if they would pay men to do the work better they would have it better done. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bruce) said they would not, but he believed that if they did not pay better they would not have the work one jot better done. Parents could gather a great deal for themselves on this subject, and their belief as to the way in which the work was done was one reason why many children were not vaccinated. It might be, as the right hon. Gentleman had said, that a certain question was put, and that it was answered in a particular way, but that was because the question was a particular one—namely, whether anything mischievous happened when vaccination was properly performed? Of course there could be but one reply, in the
 1105
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, that was the number of children registered as vaccinated.
 LORD HENLEY  said, he believed that the course recommended by the hon. Member for Marylebone to refer the question to a Select Committee was the best that could be adopted, as there were many points in the Bill which required full and careful consideration. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would consent to the proposition. The town which he represented had suffered much from this disease, and a number of suggestions had been made to him. There was a general opinion that the law at present was a dead letter.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, but for his unwillingness to interfere in the discussion, he should have risen long ago to state that he was willing to refer the Bill to a Select Committee. Although he did not wish that the power of taking evidence should be limited—being desirous of making the machinery as perfect as possible—it must be distinctly understood that they did not in any way go into Committee upon the principle of the Bill. As far as legislation could effect that result, the securing of the proper quality of vaccine had already been provided for, the fullest direction having been given to the medical officers on the subject. Any failure that had attended the efforts in this direction had been caused only by the want of power on the part of the central authorities. It was to secure better arrangements being made that this Bill was brought in. With regard to the suggestion which had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Member for Tamworth that the Bill should be dropped, he would have been quite prepared to show in Committee that the clauses which the right hon. Baronet regarded as defective were in reality not open to that charge. [Sir ROBERT PEEL: Which clauses?] All of them. The clause refering to the seventh day, following the day on which vaccination was performed, in reality left the matter in the same position as it was now, and no medical man in the country would have dreamt of proposing any alteration in this respect. There appeared to be an opinion rife in some quarters that it was intended to take powers by this Bill to re-vaccinate
 1113 s. d. s. d.
 MR. DENMAN  said, the Bill substantially in its present shape had been carried through Parliament, as far as that House was concerned, last year. The Bill had met the assent of a Committee composed of the benchers of all the Inns of Court. There was no innovation of principle in-
 1093
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, he desired to express the great satisfaction he felt in knowing that the Government were going to support the Bill. He was sorry to
 1080
 MR. COWPER  said, that since that proposal had been made the Courts of Justice Commission, who had originally considered the question of architectural competition, had held no meeting, and consequently he was unable to give his hon. Friend any information upon the subject. In a few days, however, a meeting would be held, and the proposal would receive due consideration.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that he had been intrusted with a great many petitions against this Bill. He could not help being struck by the admission of the right hon. Gentleman in introducing this Bill, that the present system had entirely failed in effecting its object. The Bill before them, besides being inaccurately drawn up, bore too much of the stamp of the official departments in which it had been prepared. Those departments had given great powers to themselves, but had not taken sufficient care to guard the public from the dangers likely to arise from the working of the Bill. He hoped that care would be taken, if compulsory vaccination were enforced by penalties, that public vaccinators should also be liable to penalties in case the vaccination were not done properly. As there were a great many people who believed that vaccination did just as much harm as good, he trusted that the inquiry of the Committee upstairs would not in any way be fettered. If they agreed to send the Bill to a Committee upstairs, that Committee could soon see whether they would be able to dispose of the Bill without further information. The best way was to leave it to the Committee to decide whether they should take evidence or not, and if it were necessary, a Motion could be made to allow them to take evidence.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he considered the Bill one of the most extraordinary inroads on the constitutional government of the country as regarded the administration of justice which had ever been attempted. Here was a body of men coming to that House seeking powers of indefinite inquiry and of examining, on oath, the whole community under pains and penalties on the subject of that inquiry. He hoped his hon. and learned Friend would, on reflection, between this and next Wednesday, see cause for not proceeding further with the Bill.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he trusted that care would be taken to secure the best architectural talent of the country, in accordance with the proposal made by the hon. Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck).
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he had no exception at all to take to what the hon. Member had stated. The interpretation which the hon. Gentleman had placed on the relations of the civil departments of the country with this House was, of course, a matter of argument which he (Mr. Griffith) did not think it necessary to go into at present, but he quite admitted that the preamble to the Bill would bear amendment. With regard to the disabilities of the Secretaries of State, it should be remembered that, although not more than four could sit in that House at once, there was no disability of any particular Secretary so long as the rule was complied with. There was no absolute statutory impediment to any Member of the Cabinet sitting in that House, except in the case of the Postmaster General. He did not wish to make it obligatory that that officer should have a seat in that House, but simply to remove any legal hindrance to his doing so.
 1079
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he had always met with the greatest courtesy and kindness on the part of the Post Office officials, and he did not think the Postmaster General would allow such grievances to exist as those pointed out by the hon. Member. He did not know anything more creditable than the improvements which had of late years been effected in the management of the Post Office, and it ap-
 1081
 MR. HUNT  said, he was sorry that the measure before the House was not of a different nature. He could have wished some proceedings had been taken to abolish the office of Postmaster General altogether, because he believed it was as near a sinecure as possible. Some two or three years ago he had charge of a measure in that House, in consequence of which he had to communicate with the Post Office, and he found that the Secretary of the Post Office was the real manager of that Department. Mr. Peel was the organ of communication with the House, and he always referred, when reference was necessary, to the Secretary of the Post Office, and not to the Postmaster General. He did not know what the Postmaster General did except dispense patronage, but surely some other Member of the Government would relieve him of that burden. He thought that if the Post Office were made a part of the Treasury the Secretary of the Post Office might discharge the duties, and they might dispense with the Postmaster General. He believed the only object in keeping up the office was to pay a compliment to some person of high rank, and give him a salary for doing nothing. It was a waste of the public money. He hoped the Government would take the matter into consideration, and see if they could not do without the Postmaster General altogether.
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  said, he would like to know what effective duties the Postmaster General really performed, or indeed what he had to perform? It was of no advantage to have an officer with a seat in the House who could give no information to the House, and whose duties were altogether a sinecure.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the Bill would enable the Postmaster General to sit in that House. The state of things as to the representation of the Government in Parliament was this—Under the Statute of Anne, as amended by that of George II., and by the later Act known as Burke's Act, a limited number of office holders could be Members of the House of Commons. All the great Administrative Departments were or might be represented in the House, but the Revenue Departments were not in the same sense represented. The heads of those Departments such as the Boards of Customs and Inland Revenue, were permanent officials, and it would be of course impossible that any such officials not liable to go out with the Ministry of the day should be eligible to that House. It would be also impolitic to make the heads of these Departments political officers, as their duties ought not to be carried on under the pressure of political considerations. But the Post Office, although technically a Revenue Department, and provided for in the Revenue Estimates, was virtually one of the great Administrative Departments. Hence its head had been for a long time considered as a political officer, going out with the Government; but as he was excluded from that House by the construction of the statutes which he (Mr. Childers) had recited, he was usually a Peer, sitting in the other House. In one case, under Mr. Canning, the Postmaster General was a Commoner, but this was found inconvenient, as the Department was represented
 1078
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he begged to move a Vote of £660,000 for the purchase of a site and for other expenses in con nection with the new Courts of Justice. During the last Session an Act was passed providing for the erection of the new Courts of Justice. The expense was met by taking £1,000,000 from one of the great Chancery accumulated funds, by an appropriation of £200,000 as the value of the present Courts at Westminster, and by the imposition of a Rent of Courts Fee on suitors. It was provided that the expense in the first instance should be paid out of the Votes, and that the Exchequer should be recompensed out of the different funds. Accordingly, last year a Vote of £700,000 was taken for the purchase of the site. Owing to a difficulty in obtaining the site most of that money was not expended, and
 1114
 MR. BRISCOE  said, he could not agree in the suggestion that the Bill should be withdrawn altogether, but he heartily joined in the request made to the Vice President of the Council that the Bill should be referred to a Select Committee. His constituents thought there should be more inquiry before there was more legislation.
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he regretted that the Bill had been so carelessly drawn up that it was impossible to shape it properly, either during the discussion that was then going on, or in Committee. One grave defect in the Bill was that it did not provide for the purity of the lymph to be used, as, if it were clearly understood that none but healthy lymph would be used, the chief objection of the lower classes to vaccination would be removed, The subject of vaccination was one of such vast importance that it demanded the fullest deliberation and inquiry before any steps were taken in the matter, and under these circumstances he did not hesitate to say that the subject should be postponed until a Bill could be drawn up, founded upon the recommendations of a Select Committee.
 1110
 MR. LOCKE  said, he differed from his hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Denman). The Bill had never been fully discussed. The name of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had been on the back of the Bill as formerly introduced. It was not on the present Bill. His hon. and learned Friend (Mr. Roebuck) had seceded from it, On the first reading he (Mr, Locke) spoke against it, and would have divided the House on its introduction, but there were then so few Members present that he should have had very little support. By constituting the benchers of the Inns of Court a court of law to inquire into questions, perhaps of domestic arrangement, they might create an extremely offensive power. He thought the Bill extremely objectionable and altogether unnecessary.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he believed that the scale of remuneration to the medical officers was in many cases too low. He hoped the Bill would provide that no expense or trouble be spared to procure the proper vaccine, and thus to remove much of the prejudice which existed against vaccination among the lower classes.
 MR. BARROW  said, he did not agree with the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, that no evidence should be taken before the Select Committee, as "crotchets," as he called them, of medical men on this subject deserved careful consideration. He confessed that from all he heard from medical men, both English and foreign, he doubted the efficacy of the present system of vaccination, and therefore trusted that full inquiries would be made before a system of compulsory vaccination was forced upon the country.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that he was ready to give the Post Office authorities credit for their good management; but it was sometimes found that it was very difficult to obtain information from that Department, and that difficulty seemed to arise from the absence of any active person at its head. He thought there should be some responsible head to whom complaints might be addressed. It was all very well to speak of the Postmaster General, but lie was a myth; nobody knew where to find him.
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that so far as he could see, the Bill merely enabled the benchers to exercise in an effectual manner the powers which they at present possessed. He thought no ground had been shown why this Bill should not be considered in Committee.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had intended to move the second reading that day, understanding that no objection would be made to it. The provisions had been fully discussed by the benchers of the four inns of court, and the Amendments suggested by them he had adopted. Other Amendments had been introduced at the suggestion of common law barristers and others, and the Bill as it now stood had been introduced with the consent of the Attorney General. As, however, he understood that some Members objected to the measure, he proposed, in the absence of the Attorney General, to postpone the present stage till that day week.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he understood the Under Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Childers) to state that it would be rather objectionable to have the representative of the Post Office in that House, inasmuch as the Post Office was a revenue department, He felt bound to express his dissent from that view of the matter. When the penny postal system was introduced it was stated that the Government ought to carry the letters for a penny each, because this could be accomplished by a private company; and it was then clearly understood that the Government were not to make any profit out of the enterprize. He held that the Post Office could not be taken as a legitimate revenue department.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, that he seconded the Motion. He wished to advert to the dangers likely to arise from the use of unhealthy lymph. If the lymph were not removed within a certain time, it fermented and became putrid, and then, in the words of an eminent medical gentleman, it became as dangerous as the cut of a dissecting knife. He hoped the right hon. Gentleman would permit this matter to go to a Select Committee. It was a question of science, and could only be advantageously considered in Select Committee.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, he saw no objection to the question going before a Select Committee, provided no evidence was to be taken on the subject, which would throw the matter over this Session. Everything in connection with vaccination was well known, and if evidence were taken before the Select Committee, the only effect would be to give every person an opportunity of coming forward to ventilate his crotchets upon the question. The machinery of the existing system was far too complicated, a great deal of trouble being thrown upon the local authorities, in addition to the cost of £16,000 per annum. It would be an improvement of the system were the Privy Council to take the whole responsibility and management. Although the remuneration of medical practitioners might be ample in large towns, yet in country districts, where but few children were vaccinated at one time, he did not think the
 1111
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, that the words of the Report were that only 437,693 children were successfully vaccinated. The right hon. Gentleman said that the great object of the Bill was to obtain good vaccine matter for vaccination, but the Bill did not mention when the matter was to be taken. The right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Henley) had with justice laid great stress upon that point, as the medical officer of the Privy Council had stated that the vaccine matter, if not taken from the child on a particular day, became pernicious, and instead of doing good rather tended to create disease. [Mr. H. A. BRUCE: No!] The right hon. Gentleman said "No!" but the medical officers in their Report to the Privy Council stated that to be the fact;
 1107 d. d. "No payment in respect of vaccination shall be made out of the common fund of any union, or out of the poor rate of any parish, or out of any other public or parochial fund, where the Poor Law Board shall not have approved of a contract for the performance thereof, or after they shall have determined any such contract; and every payment made contrary hereto shall be disallowed by the auditor in the accounts of every Board of Guardians, or of the overseers, or of any officer who shall have made the same." 1108 "The guardians of any union or parish may pay out of their funds all reasonable expenses incurred by them in causing notices to be printed and circulated as to the provisions of this Act, and in and about inquiries and reports as to the state of small pox or vaccination in their union or parish, and in taking measures to prevent the spread of small pox and to promote vaccination upon any actual or expected outbreak of that disease therein, and may compensate any officer appointed by them to prosecute persons charged with offences against this Act, or otherwise to enforce its provisions." "The registrar of births shall, on or within seven days after the registration with him of the birth of any child not already vaccinated, give a notice, according to the form in the Schedule hereto annexed marked A, or to the like effect, to the parent, or in the event of the death, illness, absence, or inability of the parent to the person having the custody of such child, if known to him, requiring such child to be duly vaccinated according to the provisions of this Act, and specifying the days, hours, and places where the public vaccinator of the vaccination district wherein such child resides, or the vaccinator of any station duly authorized by the Lords of Her Majesty's Council, will attend for the purpose of performing the operation, and such notice shall be accompanied with forms according to those in the said Schedule marked B, C, and D." 1109
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he trusted that the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bruce)
 1112
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he saw many defects in the Bill, which would require
 1106
 MR. BARING  said, in reply, that it would be quite possible to bring in the Bill to which the hon. Gentleman referred before Whitsuntide; but he apprehended that it would be more convenient if its introduction were to be delayed till after that date, in order that full information might be procured in reference to the trusts in question.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether it has come to his knowledge that, at the St. Columb Petty Sessions, on the 27th of February last, John Rowe, of St. Dennis, an old man, was prosecuted by the Inland Revenue for being found with a gun and dog whilst crossing the Garrigan Estate in November, 1865, and fined £5 and sent to gaol for non-payment, the same John Rowe having been fined in November last for the same offence, as a trespasser, 40 s. s. d.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that he declined to enter into any such engagement, on the ground that the new system of promotion for the assistant-surgeons of the Brigade of Guards had been settled by a Warrant signed by Her Majesty, and approved by the General Commanding-in-Chief and the Secretary of State for War, in the year 1860, but never promulgated.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Reports or Despatches have been received from Consul Meadows at Newchang respecting the approach of rebels in December last; also from Consul Medhurst at Hankow mentioning the proximity of a large rebel force, and detailing the measures adopted for the protection of British property; and whether the Consuls have suggested to the British Government any and what measures for the future safety of the foreign settlements in China?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, Returns had been moved for by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho), which would give all the information which the hon. Gentleman required. Those Returns were now ready for presentation, and would immediately be laid on the table.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied, that the Warrant to which the Question of the hon. Member referred gave the reasons why the alteration had been made. It stated that it was done "in consideration of the privileges conferred upon the officers of the army at large by the provisions of this Warrant," privileges which entailed considerable additional expense. The officers serving in China were not entitled to the allowance in question, which furnished another reason why the officers of the army serving in India should be placed on the same footing.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answer to the question of the hon. and gallant Member, I have to say that I do not think Her Majesty's Government will be in a position to consider with advantage the course they may think it right to pursue with regard to corrupt practices at elections until after they shall have learnt the results of all the inquiries which have to take place before the Election Committees of the present year. Consequently I do not anticipate that, in the ordinary duration of the Session, it will be in their power to prosecute this subject. At the same time I do not give an absolute negative, because the question is one that entirely depends upon time and circumstances.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise, Sir, to move the second reading of the Representation of the People Bill; and, in doing so, I propose to supply a defect which some have observed in the statement with which I originally introduced the Bill to the notice of the House. It was thought on my part almost disrespectful to the House—and suggestions of that kind have proceeded from persons of weight and authority—to have laid a measure of so much importance on the table without dealing more largely than I did presume to deal in substantive reasons for its introduction. I will explain briefly to the House the feelings with which that measure was introduced, and which will, I think, explain and justify the course which I pursued. Her Majesty's Government—for I do not speak on this point of myself alone—Her Majesty's Government were sensible of the tender nature of the ground on which they were about to tread. They had, first and foremost of all, to apprehend that they might prejudice the progress of this great question by giving to it unnecessarily, or at all events prematurely, the character of a party conflict. They had also to apprehend that they might incur a still more serious mischief—that they might give to the course of the argument on the subject the character of a conflict between class and class. They were determined, Sir, that, so far as depended upon them, the discussion should not be marked from its commencement by either the one character or the other. I was therefore earnestly studious—with what success I know not—to thread my way through the whole of that long and, I fear, wearisome address without including in it any statement of principle, any argument, any suggestion, any reference to the past, which could in any manner raise even so much as a flutter of hostile emotion on the part of Gentlemen who sit opposite. I was not at that period aware of any reason, nay, I am not even yet aware of any good reason why Gentlemen who sit opposite, and who may be disposed to take a temperate and conciliatory view of public affairs, should not freely concur in the enlargement—as we think the very mode-
 1125 1126 1127 1128 "We are perfectly prepared to deal with that question of the borough franchise and the introduction of the working classes by lowering the franchise in boroughs, and by acting in that direction with sincerity; because, if you intend to admit the working classes to the franchise by lowering the suffrage in boroughs, you must not keep the promise to the ear and break it to the hope. The lowering of the suffrage must be done in a manner which satisfactorily and completely effects your object, and is at the same time consistent with maintaining the institutions of the country."—[3  Hansard, Opposition cheers. 1129 "Ease will retract Vows made in pain as violent and void." 1130 The Quarterly Review, Review "Just as in 1860 and 1801 the reforming zeal of the Radicals was bought off by the sacrifice of the Paper Duty, so, from 1861 to 1865, it was appeased by the sacrifice of the gallant Confederacy. But with the fall of Richmond Mr. Bright's heart was set at case concerning the fate of the Government to which his true allegiance is given." A cheer, The Quarterly Review— "And the moment Lord Palmerston was removed by death the Government instinctively felt that the time had again come round for buying off once more their insatiable ally. "This time there was nothing for it but to reproduce a Reform Bill," 1131 Opposition cheers. Quarterly Review. Laughter and cheers. "These lies are like the father that begot them—Gross as a mountain, open, palpable." Much laughter. "Gross as a mountain, open, palpable." 1132 1133 from the lack Op-position Benches. from the lack Opposition Benches. Cheers and laughter. 1134 Loud cheers. 1135 "Dear Sir" (I do not know him personally, but he thus kindly addresses me)—"My motive in writing this is to remind you of the Tories who belong to the working classes, as you cannot think perhaps all you wish at the right time. We all know that there are the same variety of principles and opinions in all classes of society. I am a working man, and have an opportunity of knowing that the Tories in principle, especially the artizan class, are very numerous, who are not now in possession of the franchise. The new Reform Bill, I think, will do about as much for the Tories as for the Liberals. It would for all we know. The love of country and constitution is confined to no particular class. A Liberal is as loyal as a Tory. Is there any evidence to show that these men which the Reform Bill or Franchise Bill would enfranchise are not fit to be trusted? They know well that the welfare and prosperity of their country and their masters is at the same time their welfare and prosperity. Please not to make my name public." 1136 1137 1138 1139 1140 1141 1142 s. Cries of from the Opposition. 1143
 MR. DISRAELI : There are the 40 s.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : They are, I apprehend, for the most part, like the fly in the pot of ointment. [" No, no!"  from the Opposition. s.
 MR. DISRAELI : I will tell you when I speak.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The right hon. Gentleman interpolates questions in the middle of my speech—very fairly I admit, and I make no complaint of it if that course be thought convenient—yet, when I invite him to continue the argument in his own way, he declines to follow. Then I only wish to say—and certainly I thought it generally believed—th at the proportion of working men in the county constituencies is too small to allow us to reckon the county seats as seats which could be brought under their influence. I take it, then, that the county constituencies are free from the predominance of working-class influence. If it be not so, I shall be obliged to put the proposition in a manner much more unfavourable to my opponents. I have not dealt unfairly by you in saying the county constituencies, having only a minority of working men, are free from the influence of the working classes; because I have on the other side allowed nothing for the influence of minorities composed of the middle and upper class. Now, the towns in England and Wales where it is likely there may be a majority of working men in the constituency have 101 seats; the towns where they must apparently be a minority have 239 seats. I assume for the moment the same proportions in the Scotch and Irish towns. Upon that assumption the effect will be that the working classes will have a majority in 120 towns and cities of the
 1144 1145 1146 1147 "In vento et rapidâ scribere oportet aquâ" 1148 Virgil. "Instamus tamen immemores, cæcique furore, Et monstrum infelix sacratâ, sistimua arce." 1149
 MR. LOWE : Sir, I now only interpose for two minutes to retard the speech which the House of course wishes to hear, as I shall have, at a later period of the debate, to address the House on the subject of this Bill; but, as I desire very much to dis-
 1150 alio intuitu. 1151
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  rose to order, amid great cries of "Order!" and "Chair!" He was understood to say that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne would have an opportunity of speaking after the Amendment had been moved, and then would be the proper time for him to make the remarks which he had been proceeding to address to the House.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Gentleman
 1152
 MR. LOWE : I only wish, Sir, to say in this public manner, that it never was my intention to say anything reflecting on the honour of the working classes of this country as a body. Whatever may be the inferences drawn from my speeches, those inferences are legitimate arguments, and I must meet them as I may; but I hope the House of Commons as an Assembly of gentlemen—for though you are a Court, you cannot, like the Court of Chancery, issue injunctions—will set their face against the attempt to put down a man by libel. For myself I can say—whatever my failings may be, and no one is more conscious of them than I am myself—in this matter of Parliamentary Reform I have acted as my conscience dictated and with perfect integrity.
 EARL GROSVENOR : Sir, if the House will allow me, I will take the liberty of bringing it down to the region of commonplace. In rising to move the Resolution of which I have given notice, I must first of all beg the indulgence of this House, and more especially of those Members who sit on this side of it, in opposition to whom I have the misfortune on this occasion to appear to act—an indulgence which I know I shall not ask in vain. I am aware that the task which I have undertaken would require some one of more eloquence and ability, and a more practised debater than I am. The only merit that I can lay claim to is founded on the sincerity of my conviction in the course I am taking and on the honesty of my motives. I can assure the House that it was not without great hesitation, not without great anxiety, that I consented to move the Amendment of which I have given notice, nor did I do so without having taken the advice of men in high position well qualified to advise, and on whose judgment could confidently rely. Sir, I have been the subject of very many attacks, both in writing and in speeches, since the time I gave notice of my Amendment; but no more unfair or more ungenerous an attack has been made upon me than that of the learned Member for Oxford. I do not wish to be understood for a moment as alluding to the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies—a man of a high and noble mind, for whom I have the greatest respect. I allude to a speech delivered by the learned Gentle-
 1153 The Star 1154 1155 1156 "I feel bound in honour to say that upon the whole I cannot help approving that portion of the Bill (re-distribution of seats). This is no small nor trifling matter. In point of fact, the question of the re-distribution of seats is a full half of your whole Reform Bill. The re-distribution of seats and the arrangement of the franchise make up the measure."—[3  Hansard, "A Motion is to be made which declares—it is not important what it declares—no man cares what it declares—I don't suppose any man knows what it declares. It is not what it declares, but what it does not declare, that is the real question." "That this House, while ready to consider, with a view to its settlement, the question of Parliamentary Reform, is of opinion that it is inexpedient to discuss a Bill for the reduction of the franchise in England and Wales until the House has before it the entire scheme contemplated by the Government for the amendment of the representation of the people." The Times. 1157 "He would ask the House, considering the gravity of the subject, considering the great, importance of any change made in the electoral body, and considering also that the laws enacted by, and the measures adopted in, the House of Commons depended very much upon the nature of that electoral body, whether it would be wise to adopt the Bill proposed by the hon. Gentleman now, and to take other measures afterwards one by one, or whether it would not be better to reject so partial a proposition and wait until the whole scheme for the alteration of the franchise was placed at once before the House."—[3  Hansard, 1158 "If the object of a Reform Bill be simply to increase the power of such gentlemen as have command over the labouring population of the towns and to destroy the influence of all who cannot appeal to their employment of labour and their wealth, then may we well expect that the first step will be a reduction of the voters' qualification, and that all other questions will be left for settlement until the new men have got into power. But if it is intended that a Reform Rill should provide for the fair and equitable representation of all who are fit to be trusted with a vote, then no question can claim precedence of this distribution of seats. And if it be one involving great care and an impartial manipulation of details, then let the principles only be affirmed, and let the working out of those principles be left to the leisurely and careful handling of an unbiased commission." "Well, that has never been the intention of any Bill proposed in this House. I do not think it is
 1159 1160 1161 1162 "That this House, while ready to consider, with a view to its settlement, the question of Parliamentary Reform, is of opinion that it is inex-
 1163 The Quarterly Review, 1164 1165 1166 1167 1168 1169 1170 1171 1172 1173
 MR. BRIGHT,  who rose amid loud cries of "Order!" said, I do not wish to interrupt the noble Lord—I only want to say that on the first occasion I was not in the House. ["Order, order!"]
 LORD STANLEY : I do not refer to the hon. Gentleman alone; but I must remark that all this indignation and these hard words used by the hon. Gentleman and his friends and by a large portion of the press arise from this—that a certain number of Gentlemen of the Liberal party, setting their conscientious convictions against their party ties, have asserted their own individual right of judgment, and have revolted from democratic dictation. If that is the cause of all that we have heard and read against my noble Friend, we may form some judgment of the nature of the reign of freedom approaching, when day after day Members on the other side are told, "You have nothing to do with private opinions; all you have got to do is to swallow your scruples and follow your leader." From a party point of view nothing would give me greater pleasure than the adoption of such
 1174 1175 1176
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  (Rochester)  said, that having given notice of an Amendment which he considered of vital importance, and which he should bring forward if the second reading were carried, he desired to state how much further his views extended than the Motion of which he had given notice. He represented a constituency in which, more than almost any other, the artizan class predominated. He had mixed with them much more freely, and on terms probably of more friendly intimacy, than most other Members were
 1177 Northumberland; 1178 employés History of the Reign of George "In a population of 8,000,000 there were no more than 160,000 electors. The representation of the people was merely a phrase. The people of England had for the most part no more voice in the election of the House of Commons than the people of Canada. The great and growing increase in the Customs and Excise since the late war had enlisted in the service of the Government numerous persons engaged in the collection and supervision of this extensive revenue. These men were necessarily spread over the country, and most of them had votes for Members of Parliament; holding their offices at pleasure their votes were of course at the command of the Government, and the memorable example of 1762, when the vengeance of the Minister for Parlia-
 1179 s. s.; 1180
 MR. HORSFALL  hoped that, as the borough which he had the honour to represent (Liverpool) had been put forward as an illustration, of the probable working of the Bill, and as, moreover, it had been taken last week under the special patronage of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he might be allowed to occupy the attention of the House for a few minutes. He must say he thought too much importance had been attached to the right hon. Gentleman's visit to Liverpool, and to the three gatherings held there. The first of these was a dinner given by the Liberal electors of South Lancashire, six months after the election, in honour of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had been elected a Member for that constituency, standing the third on the poll. That dinner, he had no doubt, like all Liverpool dinners, was a very excellent one, and the newspapers informed them of whom the company consisted. It appeared that, in addition to twenty-five invited guests and twenty-eight reporters, about 500 gentlemen sat down to dinner, besides 600 ladies in the gallery attended by 800 gentlemen. Now, all he had to say was, that if a Chancellor of the Exchequer, a distinguished orator, a Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, a noble Lord who was an Admiral, and a noble Duke, would go down to Liverpool and would have in the gallery 600 ladies, or, as they were called in his county, Lancashire witches, he would undertake to say that there would be as enthusiastic a meeting—if not a more enthusiastic one—in favour of Conservative principles. Well, the next gathering wa3 entitled a public meeting in the Amphitheatre; but how were persons admitted on that occasion? Why, by ticket, and they knew full well to whom those tickets would be distributed for a meeting of that kind. Far be it from him to say a word in disparagement of any gentleman who was present there—but of course free discussion was out of the question. He knew the building, and how many people it would contain—namely, from 3,000 to 3,500. He freely admitted that the meeting was full and was enthusiastic; but what of
 1181 "A demonstration of the working classes of Liverpool in favour of the present Reform Bill was announced by placard to be held on Saturday afternoon, at three o'clock, in front of the Wellington Monument. At that hour there were about thirty people at the place appointed, and the expectation of the enthusiasm which was anticipated seemed to he altogether hopeless, when suddenly a small body of prominent Liberals—in the person of Mr. R. J. Jeffery, Mr. Robertson Gladstone, and one or two others—made their appearance at the corner of London Road. They directed their way to the vacant space in front of St. George's Hall, whither they were eagerly followed by the people who had gathered together. Beside the place where the famous 'lions' of Liverpool are stationed a couple of floats, as they are called, were put, into which as many as could be accommodated scrambled in the most extraordinary manner. Something like an appearance of order was given to the arrangement by the placing of several chairs on one of the floats. By this time the crowd had considerably enlarged, and numbered perhaps a few hundreds It was composed partly of working men who had come with the intention of hearing the speeches, but chiefly of clerks and others who were on their way home after leaving office, and who evidently came to listen to the proceedings more from a feeling of curiosity than from any interest they had in the result. As always happens on such occasions a good deal of 'chaffing' prevailed, but even in that respect (perhaps owing to the fact that at no time was the number of those persons above 1,000) the affair was a miserable failure." 1182 "With reference to the constitution of the House of Commons, one method in which you may improve that constitution is, I will venture to say, by sending back among us my respected Friend who sits in the chair." "Suppose a merchant has a flourishing business, with all its arrangements complete, and suppose an opening is made evident to him that by some increased outlay and venture he may, in perfect consonance with the rules of prudence, make a more increased profit on his industry and capital, does that merchant require to be shown that his business already is a bad one? No, certainly not; but he says, 'I will make it as good as I can.'" "Gentlemen, how often do you usually in business transactions allow a man to renew a bill. The measure has been considered by five Governments, and been mentioned in seven Queen's Speeches. The question now is, Is there a serious proposal? All we can do is to step ourselves upon it. The matter will rest with the country. Whatever word we can speak—whatever act we can do is solemnly pledged, and long ago. It rests with that public of which you form an important part to determine what shall be the issue. We call upon you to say whether you are satisfied with this attempt
 1183 1184 1185 "But whether your election was a blunder or not, I have asked myself how it happens that there can possibly be in a populous manufacturing town a Tory party strong enough to return two Members to Parliament, and I find that in this county, which very ignorant people at head-quarters sometimes fancy to he very democratic, we have three great populations, each of which is represented by two Tory Members—the great commerciality of Liverpool and the great manufacturing boroughs of Preston and Blackburn, Now, if we did not know this to be the fact, we should scarcely believe it to be possible, for hardly anything can he more strange, hardly anything more discreditable, hardly anything which we can scarcely account for, than that these great manufacturing and industrial populations should permit themselves to be represented in the Imperial Parliament by Members of that party whose whole career has been one of permanent and virulent hostility to commerce." 1186
 MR. PIM  said, that connected as he was chiefly, but not exclusively, with the Liberal party of the city which he had the honour to represent (Dublin), and sitting amongst Gentlemen with most of whose views he sympathized, he felt great difficulty in refusing his support to the Government on the present occasion. He felt very strongly the necessity of adhering to the party in whose general views he coincided, and there were comparatively few questions on which he should be willing to take the part he was now doing; he felt the necessity of acting with a party, and he had not been in the House two nights before he was convinced that an independent Member was frequently an independent and useless unit. Still, he must say that when he was addressing his constituents on the hustings, he stated that whilst he was prepared to give an honest support to the party then represented by Lord Palmerston, it would be an independent support, and that he would not; vote for any measure that might be brought in unless he thought it a good one. He felt it necessary, in regard to his constituents and to his own honour, to keep the pledge he had given, and he was satisfied that many persons who had voted for him would not have; done so if he had not made that declaration.
 1187 1188 1189 "That it is expedient to consider the laws relating to the representation of the people in England and Wales, Scotland, and Ireland, not separately, but in one measure." 1190 1191 1192
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Sir, in rising to oppose the Amendment which has been moved this evening by my noble Friend the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor), I wish to say that I at least am quite willing to concede to him not only the merit of perfect honesty and sincerity in bringing it forward, but also to give him credit for perfect political consistency. My noble Friend is not now, nor has he been for the last year, an advocate of Parliamentary Reform. I do not know what he may have been in former times; but certainly he showed he was not an advocate of Parliamentary Reform, as
 1193 "I think it right to issue my address at once, in order to explain the reasons which induced me on that occasion to vote against the reduction of the borough franchise." 1194 Ironical cheers from the Opposition Benches. 1195 Cries of "But as in all important matters Legislative action is preceded by inquiry, such inquiry should, in my opinion, be instituted to show how, without affecting the present balance of the Constitution, the franchise should be extended. We could then proceed to legislate on a sound and ascertained basis." 1196 1197 1198 1199 primâ facie 1200 1201 1202 His honour rooted in dishonour stood, And faith unfaithful made him falsely true."
 GENERAL PEEL : The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer told us at the commencement of his speech this evening that he spoke for the purpose of acquainting the House with the grounds on which the present Government brought forward this Reform Bill. Perhaps he will allow mo to state what I think were the reasons which induced the Government to bring forward this Bill in the Palmerston House of Commons. I call it the "Palmerston House of Commons," because it is notorious that the last House of Commons was dissolved sooner than it otherwise
 1203 1204 "Weep not for us, our masters dear, We are not dead, but sleeping here." à priori, 1205 1206 1207 1208 "The time will come when, frightened by your own interference, you will withdraw your support from those whose hopes you have excited, and leave them to the bitter recollection that they have been betrayed." 1209 1210 1211 1212 "Him count I hateful as the doors of Hell Who in his heart thinks other than his tongue doth tell."
 MR. KINGLAKE  said, he could not understand why he, who had taken no part in the debate, should have been assailed by the shafts of the gallant General, to many of whose statements he thought the maxim  humanum est errare
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, that he thoroughly agreed with the noble Lord who seconded the Amendment (Lord Stanley) in the opinion that it was desirable the question of Reform should, if possible, be settled, in placing complete trust in all classes of his countrymen, and in welcom-
 1213 1214 "Whenever a Reform Bill is brought into the House of Commons by any Government be as watchful and exacting as you like on the subject of the franchise, but never, I beg, take your eye for one moment from the question of the distribution of the Members, for in it lies the great subject of dispute, and unless you guard your rights you will have to fight your battle over again and to begin it the very day after the next Bill has I passed." "Now, the Reform Bill of 1832 gave sixty-three seats to boroughs, and, I think, sixty-five seats to counties, I believe, generally, from that time to this, there has been a feeling among all those who are in favour of Reform that the Reform Bill gave I too large an influence to the counties and to the: landed interest in the distribution of Members which was made by it. Repudiate without mercy any Bill of any Government, whatever its franchise, whatever its seeming concession may be, if it does not distribute the seats which are obtained from the extinction of small boroughs mainly among the great city and town populations of the kingdom. The question of distribution is the very soul of the question of Reform, and unless you watch that you will be deceived, and when the Bill is passed you may possibly turn back to lament that you are not in the position in which you now find yourselves," "I argue, therefore, that it would be an incumbrance to a Suffrage Bill at this moment to interfere with the distribution of seats; it would make; it more difficult to carry a Bill, and whatever distribution of seats you could now make must necessarily be trifling and unsatisfactory, and would leave that question still unsettled, even for the shortest possible period. You will carry such a Bill much more easily; public opinion hereafter will be more ripe to deal with the question of the re-distribution when there are a larger number of electors returning your Members to Parliament; I mean a larger number in the different boroughs. You will have what a mechanic will call a larger lever and a better Parliament, which would deal more satisfactorily with all questions which may come before you." 1215 1216 1217 "There is no actuary in existence who can calculate how much of the wealth, of the strength, of the supremacy of the territorial families of England has been derived from an unholy participation in the fruits of the industry of the people, which have been wrested from them by every device of taxation and squandered in every conceivable crime of which a Government could possibly be guilty. The more you examine this matter, the more you will come to the conclusion which f have arrived at, that this foreign policy, this regard for 'the liberties of Europe,' this care at one time for 'the Protestant interests,' this excessive love for 'the balance of power,' is neither more nor less than a gigantic system of outdoor relief for the aristocracy of Great Britain." 1218 "The word 'democracy' has different meanings. If by democracy he meant liberty—if by democracy he meant the extension to each man in his own sphere of every privilege and of every franchise that he can exercise with advantage to himself and safety to the country, then I must say I do not see much to alarm mo in the word 'democracy.'" "Every person not presumably incapacitated by some consideration of personal unfitness or political danger was morally entitled to come within the pale of the Constitution." "I am no advocate for a law to force the division of land. I do not want any landlord to be compelled to have a greater or smaller number of tenants, but I say the system of legislation on primogeniture on the law of entail, which is intended to keep vast estates in one hand through successive generations to prevent that economical disposition and change of property found so advantageous in every other kind of property—I say that state of things is full of the most pernicious consequences, not only to the agricultural classes, but to all other classes of our countrymen, for all are affected by it." "Is there any reason why land should not be as free as machinery, or ships, or household furniture, or cattle, or the goods and manufactures in your warehouses?" "When the sacredness of property is talked of, it should always be remembered that any such sacredness docs not belong in the same degree to
 1219 "In our Foreign Office we have no massively constructed columns, we have no statues, but we have a mystery as profound—for in the innermost recesses we And some miserable intrigue, in the defence of which your fleets are traversing every ocean, your armies are perishing in every clime, and the precious blood of our country's children is squandered and regarded as valueless. I hope that an improved representation will change all this, that that great portion of our expenditure which is incurred in carrying out the secret and irresponsible doings of our Foreign Office will be placed directly under the free control of a Parliament elected by the great body of the United Kingdom, and then, and not till then, will your industry be secured from that gigantic taxation to which it has been subjected during the last 150 years." "Ave, Cæsar, morituri te salutamus." 1220 "What should be done, and what must be done under these circumstances? You know what your fathers did thirty-four years ago, and you know the result. The men who in every speech they utter insult the working men, describing them as a multitude given up to ignorance and vice, will be the first to yield when the popular will is loudly and resolutely expressed. If Parliament Street from Charing Cross to the venerable Abbey were filled with men seeking a Reform Bill, as it was two years ago with men come to do honour to an illustrious Italian, these slanderers of their countrymen would learn to be civil, if they did not learn to love freedom."
 MR. AYRTON  thought that debates on great questions like this ought not to be regarded as of secondary importance, and that the debate should not, as a matter of course, be adjourned at twelve o'clock. Such was not the case in former days. They did not foumerly give up at twelve o'clock, or give way to a feeble wearisome-ness, but discussed the question until an hour at which they could reasonably adjourn. Now-a-days Members went in the morning and read the debates, and came down repeating what they had read; so
 1221
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the practice to which the lion, and learned Gentleman had alluded was one which had now prevailed for twenty-five years, and he very much doubted whether at any period of our history the House had ever sat till three or four o'clock with the view of then adjourning a debate. But what he ventured to presume was, that there would be a disposition, through the kindness of lion. Members, to facilitate the progress of the debate; and as the rule which placed Supply as the first Order on Friday enabled Members to introduce a variety of topics which were not likely to be listened to with much advantage to-morrow, he would appeal to those having Motions on the paper to give way, so as to enable this debate to be then proceeded with.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer stated, as a reason for not having introduced a more comprehensive measure, that he could not trust much to the tender mercies of private Members, who were not to be expected to give up the only nights they had for bringing forward questions in which they felt an interest, and therefore the Government would have only about twelve nights at their disposal for the discussion of the Reform Bill. Under these circumstances, it was rather hard to ask Gentlemen who were not inclined to facilitate the passing of the Reform Bill to give up their nights. If, then, out of deference to the wishes of the House and the Government, and in opposition to his own conviction of the necessity of the question, he was to yield his right, he was justified in asking Her Majesty's Government to give, him a day for bringing forward the subject which stood in his name for to-morrow evening.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it would be impossible for the Government to give a day. His right hon. Friend had made a suggestion which was in conformity with the general feeling of the House, and the good sense of the hon. Gentleman would, no doubt, lead him to act in deference to that feeling.
 COLONEL ANNESLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether any steps have been taken by Her Majesty's Government for the protection of the interests of our fishermen on the coast of British North America, on the termination of the Reciprocity Treaty with the United States?
 MAJOR DICKSON  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will be prepared during the present Session to bring in a Bill to amend the Laws relating to corrupt practices at Elections, as a part of the entire scheme for amending the Representation of the People?
 MR. LAYARD,  in reply, said, it appeared that Consul Meadows had been much alarmed at the beginning of last winter at what he deemed to be the prospect of an attack on Newchang by a large force of rebels. He, in consequence, requested the loan of some guns from the Admiral on the station, by whom they were lent. The Government had, however, received no information that an attack on Newchang had since taken place. With respect to the attack on Hankow, he had to state that he had no reason to believe that that city had been threatened by a large rebel force. It seemed that a considerable number of villagers had taken
 1120
 MR. CARDWELL,  in reply, said, notice had been given to the Governor General of Canada and to the Governors of all the
 1123
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether it is the intention of the Secretary of State to create a sub-department of the Financial Department of the India Office, to be called "The Funds Branch," to be presided over by an Assistant Secretary; and, it so, whether it is true that it is in contemplation to appoint to that office a second class clerk from another Government Department, and to pass over the whole of the senior clerks in the India Office, whose term of service varies from thirty-six years to eleven.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, in reference to the Report of the Committee on Turnpike Trusts (1864), recommending that pending the abolition of the present system a certain class of Trusts theretofore kept alive by the Annual Continuance Act should thereafter be excluded there from, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether such Act can be introduced before Whitsuntide; and, if not, why not?
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the Subalterns of Her Majesty's
 1121
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, a certain William (not John) Rowe was prosecuted for having been found with a gun and dog in pursuit of game without a licence, and convicted in the mitigated penalty of £5. Immediately after the conviction he petitioned the Board of Inland Revenue, offering £3 2 s. d. 1119
 MR. STANSFELD  replied, that it was in the contemplation of his noble Friend the Secretary of State for India to create either a sub-department under the Financial Secretary, or a distinct branch to undertake the management of certain funds, for the transfer of which a Rill had passed that House, and would, he hoped, be read in the other House of Parliament a second time that evening. The new Department could not, however, be created without an Order in Council, nor could the Order in Council be issued until the Bill to which he referred had passed into law. The Secretary of State, when the Order in Council had been obtained, and not until then, would be ready to take into consideration the relative fitness of the various gentlemen whose names might be proposed to him to fill the position of head of the Department.
 MR. WHITE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he would object to furnish a Return of the experiments made with the first 600-pounder Armstrong Gun, including a tabular statement of the number of rounds fired; weight of the various charges and projectiles used; the initial velocities and ranges thereby obtained; the penetrations effected in armour-plated targets, with the Report of the Ordnance Select Committee on the serviceability and endurance of the said gun; and, also, the same particulars with regard to the second 600-pounder, delivered by the Elswick Ordnance Company, which has been recently tried and burst at Shoeburyness?
 MR. M'LAGAN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware that in certain districts of the country the local authorities appointed under "The Cattle Diseases Prevention Act, 1866," have failed to carry out that section of the Act by which it is enjoined that "every local authority shall cause all animals affected with the Cattle Plague within its district to be slaughtered;" and, if he is aware of it, whether he is prepared to adopt measures to compel the carrying out of the Act in its entirety?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he had received no specific information to the effect that the local authorities had failed to carry out the provisions of the Act with respect to the slaughtering of cattle, except in the case of one district in Staffordshire, the complaint made in reference to which he had transmitted to the lord-lieutenant of the county, through whom he had received an explanation given by the magistrates against whom the complaint was made which appeared satisfactory. That very day, he might add, a memorial had reached him from the Chamber of Agriculture in Edinburgh, in which it was stated that there were certain counties in Scotland in which it was reported the powers given by the law were only
 1122
 Sir ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will engage that no promotion to the rank of Surgeon in the Brigade of Foot Guards shall take place by seniority of service in the Brigade until the subject has been discussed in this House?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, it was the fact that an Armstrong gun had burst in such a manner that it had become unserviceable. He was, however, unable to give the hon. Member any definite reply to his Question until further investigation had been made as to whether the cause of the bursting of the gun could be attributed to the system of rifling the gun, or to the excessive charges that had been fired from it.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the Question of the hon. Member had been put on several occasions, and his reply had been that such correspondence as that referred to ought not to be laid upon the table, so that encouragement might not be given to inventors to write long letters, in order to get them published at the public expense. Of course, occasions might happen when it would be proper to make an exception to this general rule. The hon. Member, however, had the opportunity of bringing forward the subject in the form of a Motion, when he could state his reasons for desiring the production of the correspondence he had referred to.
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he wished to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he will object to lay upon the table of the House a Copy of the Warrant of 1860 under which the system of promotion of the Assistant Surgeons of the Brigade of Foot Guards has been altered; and, whether a Copy of such Warrant has been forwarded to Officers commanding those Regiments?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON , in reply, said, the hon. Baronet the Member for Fifeshire (Sir Robert Anstruther) had given notice of his intention to move for the documents bearing upon the subject in question, and until then he should abstain from making any remarks upon the matter.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that steps had been taken for increasing the accommodation of the Marine Department of the Board of Trade, and that on a future day he would lay on the table the documents bearing upon the subject.
 MR. LIDDELL  said it might appear
 1264 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269 1270 1271 "How happy could I be with either, Were t'other dear charmer away." 1272
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said he had no fear for the result; he felt sure that this Reform Bill would not become law, and lie was still more certain that the Government had no intention that it should. If the Liberal Ministry had been sincere Reformers, there would have been a Reform Bill passed, not now, but seven years ago. They had, however, so often broken their pledges, that the country now felt certain that they would by some means or other again wriggle out of the difficulty. The ÆÆthiopian had not changed his skin:—
 "Men faithless once are ever faithless men; Give them but scope, they soon will turn again. "All the Talents. claquers 1283 1284 "At present we have, speaking generally, a constituency of which between one-tenth and one-twentieth—certainly less than one-tenth—consists of working men. … As a general rule, the lower stratum of the middle class is admitted to the exercise of the franchise, while the upper stratum of the working class is excluded."—[3  Hansard, clxxv. "The point I ask you to look at is this—not the comparative merits of American institutions, but the one single and important point of the effect that has been produced in America by a largely-extended population franchise, by a
 1285 Trent "Well, Gentlemen, what I would say is, let us learn lessons where we can, and, among others, let us learn them where we can learn them from our brethren -the children of our loins in America." "Recent events which have taken place on the other side of the Atlantic have demonstrated to us how, by enlarging the franchise, augmented power can be marshalled on behalf of the Government." 1286 "We called upon them to be provident; we instituted for them Post-office savings-banks, which may now be said to have been in full operation for four years, and what has been the result? During these four years there have been 650,000 depositors in those savings-banks." "That £40,000,000 or £50,000,000 of accumulated money belonged to different classes of persons (including the labouring classes, the charitable institutions, to minors, and in some instances lo persons not poor at all); a great deal of it belonged to domestic servants; and, in fact, there was a very miscellaneous denomination of persons to take up that large amount of property; but if they took the artizans, mechanics, operatives, and peasants of this country—he meant the fathers of families of the labouring classes—he very much doubted whether one in ten of those families throughout the country had any deposits in a savings-bank. He might say, perhaps not one in twenty, and he was not sure whether the figures might not be placed lower." 1287 "Again it is said—at least I believe it has been so said—that where the working classes have a majority they vote together as a class. Now, is there any shade or shadow or rag of proof that such is the fact." "If there be an apprehension that you cherish separate interests, disarm that jealousy by your conduct. Undoubtedly, some portions of the proceedings of the working classes are still open to criticism—namely, the attempts on the part of majorities to interfere with minorities." "It is said, however, that there is a rapid growth of the working classes among the £10 householders. But where is the proof of this assertion? I believe it to be undeniable, that the rate of progress in the aggregate number of £10 householders has been very much less of late years than in the first few years after the passing of the Reform Bill. From 1832 to 1851, while the population increased at the rate of 43 per cent, the £10 householders grew more than twice as fast; but from 1851 to 1866 the constituency grew only 50 per cent faster than the aggregate population, thus showing a great slackening as compared with the earlier period." 1288 "What a dreadful state of things! Yet there has been no explosion, no revolution; no question has been raised about property, nor, indeed, has any attempt been made to give a political character to municipal institutions." "Where the Act of 1850 has been carried into effect in such manner as to admit large numbers of small tenement holders to the franchise, it has caused a great increase of corrupt practices at municipal elections, which prevail much more widely and take much deeper root than was formerly the case. … Wherever the Act of 1850 has been carried into full operation, the lowest class of the population have acquired a predominant influence over municipal elections; treating, bribery, and hired canvassing have greatly increased; the character and dignity of the corporation is said to be lowered by the intrusion of unworthy members." "Those wards in which the small tenement voters are the most numerous are the most noted for the prevalence of malpractices. … You will not get a vote unless you give drink. … Publichouses are kept open for ten days or a fortnight before the election takes place." 1289 "Disorder and demoralization, fraud and impersonation, and the frequency of disgraceful drunkenness, and gross ignorance and venality of a large class of electors." "The evils produced by the operation of the clause which enfranchises occupiers whose rates arc paid by the landlord are so serious, that the Committee recommend that it be repealed. … The Committee are of opinion that as a test of fitness to take part in municipal affairs, as well as a security against corrupt and fraudulent practices, actual, direct, and continuous payment of rates should be the indispensable condition of the municipal suffrage." "You hail with satisfaction the saving clause of 'maintaining the institutions of the country.' But we do not ask you to sacrifice the institutions of the country." "I have no object in making these observations but to show to the people that they have been deluded by the idea that they have a glorious—that is, an excellent—Constitution. The Constitution of this country, said to be of a King or Crown, Lords, and Commons, is, in fact, an imposture,—an imposture which I take it to be a part of my duty to expose. John Foster, speaking of the British Constitution, speaks of it as that canted and extolled humbug.'" 1290 "But let not the right hon. Gentleman suppose, and let not any member of his party suppose, that the retractation of pledges once given by a Minister of the Crown causes those pledges to be as though they had never been made. … A constitutional Government cannot go before the representatives of a free people to-day and say, 'I promise you this, that, and the other,' and tomorrow say to them, 'I have changed my mind and retract my promise.'" 1291 "I sought for a description of it, and could find no other so applicable—with the exception of one monosyllable which I wish entirely to omit—as the retort of Prince Henry to Falstaff:— 'These lies are, like the father that begot them, Gross as a mountain, open, and palpable.'" "I find that, in the present town constituencies, there are eight boroughs where the working classes are in a majority on the registers. … I find that these eight towns return five Liberals and nine Conservatives. This then is the result of the working classes being in the majority." "I believe I have been told, but I do not attach much value to it, that there are persons who advise Earl Russell to have a £12 or a £15 franchise for the counties. … I believe that there are persons who think that there is something dreadful in a £6 franchise, and that a £7 or £8 would be enough. … I venture to think that if the Government yield to these propositions, they will be guilty not only of weakness, but they will show that they do not comprehend the position which this question occupies in the minds of their countrymen, and will prove that they are pedlars in politics, and not statesmen." 1292 "If of the five millions who are now shut out one million were admitted—you will mark the extreme, or, as some will say, the blameable moderation of that suggestion—but if only one million were admitted, would not the cry of the toil-laden and the suffering, which even now ascends to heaven, reach further and be heard even on the floor of Parliament." "Repudiate without mercy any Bill of any Government, whatever its franchise, whatever its seeming concession may be, if it does not distribute the seats which are obtained from the extinction of small boroughs mainly among the great city and town populations of the kingdom. The question of distribution is the very soul of the question of Reform, and unless you watch that you will be deceived." 1293
 SIR E. BULWER-LYTTON : Sir. I approach this subject with deep and sincere anxiety. I cannot bring myself to regard it in a mere party point of view. It is not to my mind a question, whether the Government of to-day is to be confirmed or displaced: it is not to my mind only a question, how many seats a party called Liberal, or a party called Conservative, may gain or lose. The consequences of the measure before us go far beyond these considerations. They affect, for good or for evil, the permanent character of this House, whether it be regarded as the fair representation of various classes and various interests, or as a faithful likeness of the mind and slate of the whole nation, or as a deliberative assembly-requiring an amount of prudence and of cultivated intelligence beyond that, of any other popular chamber in the world; because no other popular chamber, either in Europe or America, exerts the same control over the executive, arrogates the same authority in maintaining peace and provoking war, or, by the temper of its debates and the grandeur of its renown, commands the same influence over the ideas and the destinies of mankind. My right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the
 1238 1239 s., s. d. s. 1240 s., 1241 1242 1243 argumentum baculinum. History of Cœsar. 1244 1245 1246 1247 1248 1249 1250 memento mori, 1251 manes 1252 1253
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If it is true that the second 600-pounder Armstrong Gun burst at the fiftieth round; and, if so, whether it will not be advisable to at once stop the rifling of heavy guns on the Woolwich Shunt, and Whit-worth Systems, until the War Department, have ascertained the most enduring system of rifling heavy Artillery?
 MR. FAWCETT  wished lo be allowed to explain that he had never said anything of the kind. What he had said was, not that the working men throughout the country were in favour of going to war for Poland, but that a great number of working men were not in favour of the policy of non-intervention, and that a considerable minority were in favour of a war on behalf of Poland.
 MR. SELWIN  said, he thought that if they looked back to the Bill of 1832, and to the history of the question of Reform, they would find little encouragement to support such an ill-considered and fragmentary measure as the present. No decided blot had been proved to exist in our present system of representation; no great grievance had been discovered: but to justify such a Bill both these ought to be patent to every class of the community; and then the remedy would not be a Bill framed to meet the grievance of one class or one. section of the body politic only, sacrificing all others to it, but one which from its justice and fairness would appeal at once to the support of all impartial men. He believed there were few persons who did not think that our present constitutional form of Government was the happiest that could be devised for this country, and that by altering its form they would imperil its existence; but he ventured to say that should this Bill become law, it would be the first step to revolutionize our constitutional form of Government. In dealing with a question like the present, they should seek to
 1275 1276 1277
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If he will lay upon the table of the House Copies of Correspondence between the War Department and Mr. Lancaster, from the 9th day of May, 1863, to the present time, on the subject of the endurance of heavy rifled Guns?
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether any correspondence has taken place between the Office of Works and Board of Trade in reference to the very inadequate office accommodation for carrying on the business of the Marine Department of that Board; and, if any communications have passed, whether he will state to the House the nature of them, and lay all Documents
 1225
 MR. J. STUART MILL : Although the question which will be put from the Choir relates ostensibly to the mere order of proceeding, it will hardly be denied, and least of all after the speech of the right hon. Baronet, that the question we are really discussing is, whether the Bill ought to pass. Indeed, the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn is the only speaker on the Opposition side who has argued the nominal issue as if he thought that it was the real one, or has even laid any great stress upon it. That noble Lord, in a speech marked by all the fairness and candour which were known to be his characteristics, and by even more than the ability—at least, by more varied and sustained ability—has said, I think, the very most and the very best that can be said in favour of the Amendment, considered as a substantive Motion. He has brought forward considerations well calculated to make an impression, but only on one part of his audience—on those who, though they may be willing to consent to some Reform, look with extreme jealousy on the most important part of it, the enfranchisement of a portion of the working classes—who regard this less as a good to be desired, than as a doubtful, perhaps a dangerous, experiment, and, tremble lest they should eventually find themselves committed to giving those classes a trifle more representation than they were duly warned of beforehand. What is the very worst extremity of evil with which the noble Lord threatens the House in case it should be so unguarded as to pass this Bill without the other measures of Parliamentary Reform by which it is to be succeeded? Why, it is this—that if
 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259 à priori 1260 1261 1262 habes pretium, cruet noa figeris. 1263
 MR. HANBURY  said he thought the Government had acted wisely, honestly, and justly in bringing forward this Bill, and he should support it, because he believed it to be a liberal and honest measure. It met the wants and requirements of the country at large, and afforded substantial justice to the county he had the honour to represent (Middlesex). He did not complain of the opposition to the Bill, for it was not to be expected that
 1273 1274
 MR. LAING  said, that the hon. Gentleman's explanation left his position exactly the same. It was admitted that a majority of the working men were opposed to the policy of non-intervention. That was a question not of opinion, but of fact, and one which everyone might judge for himself. Could the hon. Member—could anyone—-feel confident that if we had had a Parliament elected by a numerical majority of working men we should have traversed the great crisis of the wars of Hungary, Italy, Poland, and Denmark without becoming
 1319 1320 1321
 MR. LAING  said, that the speakers from the Treasury Bench appeared to him to find it much easier to assume that the Resolution of the noble Lord (Earl Grosvenor) meant something different from what it said, than to meet it according to the plain, ordinary English of its words, and confute by fair reasoning the proposition which it laid down. Surely the proposition that the great Reform Settlement of 1832 should be reopened only by a measure as complete and as comprehensive, and which should afford an equal chance of a permanent and lasting adjustment, was not so entirely unreasonable as that those who advocated it should be subjected to the insinuation that they were putting forward
 1307 1308 pari passu, "I confess that, as the movement has gone on, as the matter has "been discussed, there has been less and less a favour shown to any further amendment of the Constitution. I am bound to say, also, that the opposition has not been such as that which was offered to the Bill of 1832. The opposition which we had to contend with was the opposition of a particular class of persons interested in the class monopoly which then
 1309 Hansard, clxi. 1310 "It is sometimes said that the measure we propose is a democratic measure. The word democracy' has very different senses. If by democracy be meant liberty if by democracy be meant the extension to each man in his own sphere of every privilege and of every franchise that he can exercise with advantage to himself and with safety to the State,—then I must confess I don't see much to alarm us in the word democracy. But if by democracy be meant the enthroning of ignorance against knowledge, the setting up of vice in opposition to virtue, the disregard of rank, the forgetfulness of what our fathers have done for us, indifference or coldness with regard to the inheritance we enjoy, then, Gentlemen, I for one—and I believe for all I have the honour to address—am it that sense the enemy of democracy." 1311 1312 1313 1314 1315 1316 1317 1318
 MR. BAXTER  said the question before them appeared to him to be one of such paramount importance, and its decision by that House must of necessity exercise such a mighty influence upon the history of the empire, that he hoped they would not allow considerations of a mere party nature to prevent their discussing it in a dispassionate spirit, and in eventually disposing of the Bill upon its merits alone. All he could say for himself was that he would not introduce into this debate any
 1228 1229 1230 regimes 1231 Opposition Cheers. Cheers. 1232 The Standard The Standard 1233 seriatim, 1234 1235 Alton Locke "These trades unions still talk violence, nonsense, and false political economy, inherited from the evil times of 1830–40. Very likely; but the working classes feel they have no alternative, no other means of making their opinions known to the British Government. Could they but send a few men to Parliament who would state their case fairly to the British House of Commons the case would be different." 1236 1237
 MR. DU CANE  said, lie would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether his attention has been called to a Report in  The Times d. Mars? 1227
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that the question appeared to divide itself into two parts: Is the Bill before the House a good bill as far as it goes; and if it be, ought it to be rejected on account of what it does not contain? As to the Bill being a good Bill in its main feature—the reduction of the borough franchise—the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his opening statement and in his speech of last night, fully made out his case for the admission, into the constituent body, of those who would be reached by the proposed reduction; and in the course of the debate there had been hardly anything like serious argument against the political capacity of the working men who would be admitted by the Bill. The hon. Member who last spoke (Mr. Selwin) had indeed treated the preponderance of the working class, though only in a single borough, as an evil; but it was generally admitted that that class should have representatives; and, even on the somewhat wide calculation of the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Viscount Cranbourne), this Bill would give them the majority
 1278 1279 1280 1281 1282
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had not seen the statement referred to up to within the last five minutes, when his attention was called to it by the lion. Member. He then informed the hon. Member that there must be some mis-statement in the report in question, and that if he would postpone his Question until Monday he would inquire into the matter. The hon. Member, however, declined to do so, and therefore he could only say now that he would make inquiries on the subject, accompanying that assurance with an expression of the belief that there must be some misapprehension in the matter.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I think the course of this debate has thrown great light, upon the character of the Amendment which has been moved by my noble Friend the Member for Chester. The Government has been censured in some quarters for attaching importance to that Amendment, for treating it in fact as raising a vital question, instead of accepting it merely as a friendly hint as to the course which they should take—a course recommended by hon. Gentlemen on both sides of the House with a sincere desire to facilitate the settlement of this question of the representation of the people. But I appeal to hon. Gentlemen who have listened to the debate as far as it is gone, whether we did not take a proper view of that Amendment when we read it as designed to effect the rejection of the Bill?—and to ensure its rejection, not by direct means—not by the assertion of a principle opposed to that contained in the Bill-but by a Resolution couched in such terms as to admit of its being supported, as it has been and will be supported, by many hon. Gentlemen who, like him who has just sat down, are opposed to Reform altogether, by hon. Gentlemen also who are opposed to any redistribution of seats, and which might be sup ported at the same time by those who advocate universal suffrage and electoral districts. This, I say, is not a fail-way of meeting the Bill. There are indeed, in this Resolution, a few words which intimate a willingness on the part of the House to entertain the question of Reform; but these words to me look
 1294 1295 1296 and Cheers and Cheers and Cheering. 1297 Much Laughter. and Cheering from the Opposition Benches. Renewed Laughter. 1298 Laughter and Cheers. Loud Cheers. Cheers, and Cries of 1299 1300 1301 Laughter from the Opposition. 1302 Cries of 1303 1304 1305 1306
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In reply, Sir, to the threefold question of my hon. Friend I have to state that it is not our practice—it is certainly not mine—to consider any determination of the Government absolutely final, that is to say irrevocable, until the proper time has arrived for acting upon it by the production of our measures. Until that time has come, I cannot give him any information. With respect to the 6econd part of the question, I may say that I think it is quite plain it cannot be answered satisfactorily from this bench except by the production of the Bill itself; while as to the third part my hon. Friend, it seems to me, simply asks whether the Government intend to do that which they have said they would do. I may perhaps misunderstand him, but if he wishes me to explain any point over and above that as to which a declaration has already been made by the Government, and on which he desires to receive information, I shall be glad to do so. In any case I shall, to obviate all doubt about the matter, take the opportunity to restate the intentions of the Government when I address the House on the Amendment of my noble Friend the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor.)
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he wished to ask the hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), in whose name a Notice of Motion on the Malt Duty stood upon the Votes for to-morrow, Whether he will consent to the postponement of that Motion until after the Debate on the second reading of the Franchise Bill was concluded? That debate could hardly, he was afraid, be brought to a close that evening, and it would be for the convenience of the House that it should be proceeded with from day to day with as little interruption as possible.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that while admitting that the subject of the Malt Duty was one well entitled to consideration, it would not be compatible with the view which the Government entertained of the convenience of the House or of the exigencies of the public business to set apart a night for its discussion before bringing forward the Budget, which he was already under an engagement to hon. Members to introduce on the first available Government night after the second reading of the Franchise Bill.
 MR. LOWTHER  said it appeared to be
 1402 "But while we give this recommendation, we protest emphatically, for the reasons already as-
 1403 "I attribute, said he, the revival of the Reform agitation to the result of the American war. Republicanism is now looking up in the world; and the question, before long, will be, not whether we shall reform our institutions, but whether we shall recast them." The Daily Telegraph, "In the earlier part of the evening a brass band had been employed to draw people together by a constant repetition of the favourite and appropriate air of 'Wait for the Waggon.'" "Men bearing, sandwich fashion, huge placards pasted on boards, made their way through the throng, stopping ever and anon to afford time for the perusal of announcements of 'Gladstone this evening—working man's friend,' and others of a similar character; some reflecting upon Messrs. Horsman, Marsh, and Lowe, and Lords Elcho and Robert Montagu, declaring that 'while open enemies were to be respected, false Liberals were to be execrated,' and calling upon 'illustrious industry to the rescue.'" "Although he had been for twenty years trying to advocate manhood suffrage as a right, he was persuaded that they ought to accept this instalment as a help to the rest." 1404
 Mr. BRIGHT : What the petition stated was, that there were boroughs that had eighty times the amount of representation in proportion to numbers that Birmingham had; but it did not say anything about Birmingham having double the number of representatives, though I presume that they expected that large boroughs would have more Members.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, they were asked to agree to the second reading of
 1375 1376 1377 1378 1379 1380 s. s. s. 1381 1382 1383 1384 1385 1386 1387
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government, acting on the recommendation of the Inspectors of Factories, to introduce a Bill this Session for the consolidation and amendment of the Law on the subject?
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, I should have desired not to have taken any part in this Debate, but I owe a debt of gratitude to those who sent me to this House, which forbids me to be silent on an occasion when a subject of such vast importance to the working classes, and in which they take so deep an interest, is under discussion. I may have a special claim to be heard on their behalf, and as one of their representatives. With only two exceptions, I think, there is no Member of Parliament who has so large a number of working men amongst the registered voters of his constituency as I have. Of the 11,631 electors of the borough of Southwark no less than 5,515 or nearly one-half, are absolutely working men—artizans and mechanics. I have been sent to this House by those men, and by those men, I may say, alone. By their generous, loyal, and disinterested support I have been able to fight more than one hard battle. I shall never forget that at York, where I took part in a contest against influences of no ordinary nature, and on that occasion exerted to the utmost, I was nearly achieving success through the support mainly received from a committee composed of working men, all non-electors, who carried on the battle with a moderation and disinterested devotion
 1424 1425 "There is, as every one knows, sometimes a necessity in Parliamentary tactics, and this to a certain extent is the case at the present moment, as I should myself prefer meeting the Reform Bill with a direct negative to voting for Lord Grosvenor's motion." 1426 1427 Loud Cries of and 1428 1429 1430 1431 1432 1433 1434 1435 1436 1437 1438 Quarterly Review 1439 1440 The Times The Standard "In the same locality, employed at the same work and at the same wages, and without any-extraordinary drawback, a vast number of those who possess no such properties live on from day to day, regardless of every enjoyment which is not sensual, exhibiting no desire for an elevation of their character among their fellow-men." "I ask the House upon which of the classes here described will the Bill of the hon. Member for Leeds operate? Not upon the provident, but mainly upon the improvident, class. For the provident are not only in possession of the franchise; they have soared far above it, and have got into the region of freeholders. It will therefore apply to the men who waste their time in these profitless and degrading pursuits in order that they may be elevated and fished out of the mire in which they delight to grovel, introduced
 1441 Hansard, "The question for you now to determine is, whether yon ought to bring down the franchise to the level of those persons who have no such sense of decency or morality, and of what is due to the health of themselves and their children; whether you will degrade the franchise into the dirt, and imperil your institution; or whether you will make this franchise a vast instrument of good, a lever by which you may hope to elevate the working classes, not in the manner which a mawkish sentimentality contemplates, but by fixing the franchise at a reasonable level, requiring a little, and only a little effort and self-denial on their part, a little security that they are able to conduct their own affairs before we entrust them with ours." ["Hear!"] 1442 ex uno disce omnes and 1443 Interruption, and Cries of 1444 1445 1446 1447 1448 1449 Great confusion and interruption from the Opposition. 1450 Northern, Star, 1451 1452 1453 1454 1455 s., Interruption from the Opposition. 1456 Loud and ironical Cheers from the Opposition. 1457 1458 1459
 Mr. ADDERLEY : I think that if the hon. Gentleman will refer to the petition, he will find that, they claim an increase of representation in proportion to that of the population. Now, I maintain that this principle is novel, and never was applied to the representation of this country. The principle of the Constitution is, that every locality shall have a voice in this House; and that when two Members were given to every place, it was uniformly two to each, and only two instead of one, that one might attend in the event of the other being ill, or unable to attend; but it is new to the Constitution that a town should have Members accumulated in proportion to the number of the population. This would be treating Members not as a consultative body, but as counters for a division only. It was, indeed, discussed a few years ago, when that novel principle, followed out to its result, was shown to lead to this—that the metropolis should have twenty more Members, that it should have as many as the whole of Scotland, and that thirty should be added to Ireland; and these results were thought sufficient to dispose of the matter, and it has never been mooted in the House since. I only mention this to show how loosely hon. Members have been talking of the abstract principle involved in this second reading, when the truth is that: every Member has, in his own mind, some particular application that be expects this Bill to carry to a conclusion. The hon. Member for Birmingham, in his recent speeches during the recess, suggested many objects he had in view; he even hinted that the House of Lords might be merged in this House, and many other things might be done which certainly were not all in accordance with the fundamental principles of the Constitution, though, in his opinion, they might be great improvements upon it. The mode, therefore, in which the hon. Member for Bridgewater (Mr. Kinglake) sought to cover his own retreat, and to induce hon. Members to vote for the Bill, was a simple, sophism, just enough to spread a filmy veil which might conceal the craven fears of some and the ulterior projects of others. But there is another ground on which we are called upon to discuss this fragmentary Bill—the ground taken by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. J. Stuart Mill). He said that, whatever the ulterior measures might be, that supposing there was no such sequel what-
 1414 bonâ fide 1415 1416 1417 1418 animus animus 1419 1420 The Times, limbo 1421 Representative Government; "Among the foremost benefits of free government is the education of the intelligence and of the sentiments, which is carried down to the von lowest ranks of the people. Every American is in some Sense both a patriot and a person of cultivated intelligence. Political life in America is a valuable school, but it is a school from which tin ablest teachers are themselves excluded, the first minds in the country being as effectually shut 0111 from (he national representation and from public functions generally as if they were under a formal disqualification. The Demos being the one source of power, all the selfish ambition of the country gravitates towards it, as it does in despotic countries towards the monarch. The people is pursued with adulation and sycophancy, and the corrupting effects of power fully keep pace with its improving and ennobling influences." 1422 "It seemed re me sufficient to lay down some such conditions as the following, as necessary qualifications for the body of electors:—1. That they should be of average intelligence. 2. That they should, on the whole, form a security for stability of property. 3. That although bribery cannot altogether be excluded, the body of electors, as a mass, should not be tainted by corruption. 4. That the electoral body should be identified with the general sense of the community." "Such being my object, there were two modes of arriving at it:—1. Qualification of franchise. 2 Distribution of seats. The first not sufficient alone, lest in large cities population might out weigh property, or, in large counties, property might outweigh population." 1423 bonâ fide
 MR. ADDERLEY : Sir, one thing has struck me in the course of this debate, and that is the way in which nil the supporters of the Government either affect to misunderstand, or else wholly ignore the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Chester, which is the real topic of the discussion now before the House. They assert, though none have ever attempted to show, that those who support the Amendment are indirectly shirking the question of Reform. Can anybody deny, at any rate of many of those who have supported the Amend-
 1409 1410 1411 1412 pari passu.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : Then, Sir, I shall be obliged to proceed with my Motion to-morrow night.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he should on all occasions be exceedingly happy to meet the convenience of the House and the wishes of the right hon. Gentleman in any way in his power. He would, therefore, postpone his Motion if the Government would give him a night for its discussion, before the Budget was introduced, If
 1359
 MR. MAGUIRE  said that, being un-trammelled by party ties, which too often biassed the judgment and fettered the free action of public men, he would advocate, not that which would promote the interests of one party or the other, but that which, in his conscience, he believed would most conduce to the honour and dignity of the House of Commons. In dealing with this question he wished to put the three following propositions to the House: first, was Parliament really pledged to the question of Reform; secondly, was there any reason of an overpowering nature why that pledge should not be redeemed; and thirdly, was the present the time when the pledge repeatedly and solemnly given should be redeemed? [With regard to the first proposition he would not go further back than the year 1859, nor look for any other than the high authority of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, who was at that time Chancellor of the Exchequer, leader of the House of Commons, and spokesman of the Cabinet of Lord Derby. The right hon. Gentleman in 1809 introduced a measure of Reform, and declared that the Bill was the result of the decision of that most strange and extraordinary of all political curiosities—an undivided Cabinet; and that the question of Reform should be dealt with in an earnest and sincere spirit. The Bill was brought forward in pursuance of a pledge of the then Government on accepting office, and the right hon. Gentleman took great pains to prove how Parliament was pledged to the question of Reform by declarations in the House of Commons and in Royal speeches. The right hon. Gentleman stated that for fifteen years Reform had been a Parliamentary question, and for ten years a Ministerial question. Since that time other pledges had been given, and Reform was now become a Parliamentary question for twenty-one years, and a Ministerial question for sixteen years. He asserted, then, that the honour of Parliament was pledged on this question. If an individual Member of that House sacrificed the confidence of his constituents by the abandonment of his principles, and if a party lost the confidence of the country by the open abandonment of its principles, was not, also, the House of Commons likely to be endangered in the estimation of the public if, after all its solemn and repeated pledges, it now trifled with a question
 1363 1364 1365 élite nouveau riche 1366 quasi 1367 1368 "'Nothing tends more to destroy confidence in public men than to see them contemptibly abandoning their pledges.' And he charged the Ministry of Lord Derby with having 'deceived their friends, falsified their pledges, and libelled the people of England.'…The 'Conservatives,' he said,' had assumed a mission to exalt their horn against democracy—a great bugbear, which they intended to put down.'" "It is all very well to tell you about putting down democracy, but this country is not to be ruled like France or Germany; but, further than this, when they talk of suppressing democracy, they not only miscalculate their own power, but likewise the end and object of Government. It may be that in France when they elect a president they elect a master; but not so in England. Our Ministries are appointed to execute our will; it is from us that the original power is derived. We appoint them to make the laws obeyed, but not to say, 'Thus far shalt thou go, and no further.' We can fix our limits for ourselves, not to be controlled by men who have been notoriously wrong in every principle. I will go even further, and say that not only is it the duty of a Government to refrain from a perverse opposition to public opinion, but that they are unable to read the signs of the times and unfit to be intrusted with the Government of this country if they cannot perceive that there is, by the permission of Divine Providence, an obvious tendency in this country towards democracy. The equalization is growing—railway trains carry alike millionaires and beggars—the telegraph carries alike the Queen's messages and those of her meanest subjects, and thus the distinction of classes is gradually breaking down. It is the duty of a Government to mark whither the people are tending, and to solve the problem, not by striving to show how the yearnings of the human mind may be stifled, but how a change
 1369 "Before I quit the subject of Australia let me just say that I am glad to see that the Emigration Commissioners have made provision for transplanting thirty-five families from this town to that land of wealth and promise. When they arrive there each head of a family will find himself in possession of the elective franchise; and, Gentlemen, they owe that to myself."
 MR. MAGUIRE  asked what preparation there was for the attainment of that £10 franchise. None whatever. The moment the head of a family landed he was told by the right hon. Gentleman he was to possess the franchise without any schooling or preparation whatever. Manhood suffrage, however, existed at present in Australia, the votes being given by ballot; and notwithstanding what might be said by the right hon. Gentleman and by the hon. Member for Salisbury, he was not afraid of the example of the Australian colonies, for he believed that, so far from their being a terror and a warning to this country, the people of England had a right to be proud of the splendid group of those colonies, which were the noblest children of the mother country. The right hon. Gentleman, who formerly thought that, under Divine Providence, the public mind of the country was tending towards democracy, was not only afraid of democracy, but was alarmed at a £7 franchise, which he called democratic, but which he (Mr. Maguire) maintained was not so. It was only an infusion of new and healthy blood into our electoral system, and did not give the ascendancy to any class in the country. Now, considerable, doubt existed as to what was the meaning of a celebrated speech made by the right hon. Gentleman a short time ago, and which
 1370 and "This Bill will apply to the men who waste their time in these profitless and degrading pursuits, in order that they may be elevated and fished out of the mire in which they delight to grovel, introduced to power, and intrusted with control over the constitution of the country."—[3  Hansard, "I am no proscriber of democracy. In America it answers its purpose very well. In states like those of Greece it may have been desirable; but for England, in its present state of development and civilization, to make a step in the direction of democracy appears to me to be the strangest and wildest proposition that was ever broached by man." [3  Hansard, The Times. 1371 1372 s. d. 1373 1374 "Is this question of Reform to be suffered to remain as a desperate resource of faction, or only to be taken up at a moment of great popular excitement, and settled, not by the reason, but by the passions of the people? Are we to establish, as it were, a chronic irritation in the public mind upon a subject which, of all others, should not form the staple of our party contests?"
 SIR JOHN SIMEON  said that the Bill had been received, as might be expected, with aversion on one side of the House, and with no great amount of enthusiasm on the other; but he thought that, as the discussion proceeded, Members upon the Ministerial side of the House were beginning to view the Bill in a truer and fairer light than that in which they were at first inclined to regard it; and as it was discovered that the motives of the Government were honest, their measure was receiving more general acceptance. He did not himself entirely approve of it, and should have liked to see a more complete, a more comprehensive, and, in some respects, a more philosophical measure; but he did not for a moment doubt the propriety of supporting the Bill as it had been introduced: he was not going to allow himself to be drawn aside by the red herring which the noble Lord the Member for Chester had trailed across the scent. It was not for him to attempt to fathom the motives of the noble Lord: he might, for aught he knew, be an earnest Liberal and a true friend of Reform; but he (Sir J. Simeon) could not follow him in what he could not but consider a deplorable act of political suicide, the attempting the destruction of a Liberal Government by the help of Liberal votes. They had been told that this Motion ought not to be regarded as a vote of want of confidence. Now, in his opinion, it was emphatically a vote of want of confidence -, and after the assurance that the Bill for the Redistribution of Seats would be laid on the table immediately after the passing of this measure, and that the Government rested their position in the House and the country as much upon the Bill for the Redistribution of Seats as upon that for the improvement of the franchise, it was a want of confidence not only in the administrative power of the Government, but in their honour and plighted faith. The right hon. baronet the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir E. Bulwer-Lytton), in his able speech on Friday last, flung across the table a sarcasm on a large portion of the Liberal party, and affected to believe that they were ready to vote upon that occasion in direct antagonism to all their political convictions. But he (Sir J. Simeon) entirely repudiated that charge for himself, and he believed he might add for hon. Gentlemen around him. He felt that he at least stood un-
 1400 1401
 MR. J. STUART MILL : I said that the enfranchisement which this Bill gives is an absolute good; and that if it produced an improved Legislature, that Legislature might be entrusted to make the redistribution of seats.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : I said nothing of the kind.
 MR. MARSH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Government has come to any final determination with regard to the promised Bill for the re-distribution of seats; what boroughs, if any, are to be amalgamated with others; what, if any, are to he totally disfranchised; what are to be partially disfranchised and how the seats taken from those boroughs are to be distributed; and whether it is the intention of the Govern-
 1358
 MR. LOWE : Will the hon. Member allow me to explain? ["Order!"] Universal suffrage was not introduced into Australia for several years after 1852. The franchise of which I spoke was a £10 occupation franchise, introduced at my suggestion into a Bill for the government of Australia, which was carried through this House by the late Sir Benjamin Hawes.
 Mr. W. E. FORSTER : I regret to stand in the way of the hon. Gentleman who is a new Member (Mr. M'Kenna); but in the present Parliament we are all new Members. I hope the House will give me its attention for a few minutes while I address it on the subject under consideration. But before doing so I wish to make a few remarks on the speech of the noble Lord who has just sat down, and others who have supported the Amendment. I think the House must see great inconsistency between the terms of the Amendment and the speeches of the hon. Gentlemen who support it. With the exception of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), all those who have spoken in favour of the Amendment, from the noble Lord the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor) to the noble Lord who has just spoken (Lord Dunkellin), have discussed the merits of the Bill, although the Amendment expressly says that it is inexpedient to do so till the whole Bill is before the House. They have shown why the franchise should not be reduced, or why it should not be reduced in the manner proposed by the Bill. What they should have done, therefore, was to propose an Amendment, declaring that it was inexpedient for the House to pass the Bill. But they knew that it would not have answered their purpose to meet the question in this direct way. For five or six nights more the
 1388 "It may be right that the franchise should be reduced, and reduced in the manner proposed. It may be that such reduction would not be impolitic or dangerous; it may merely give to the non-electors a right which they had a right to demand; but we will not give them those rights before a redistribution of seats, for it would make the absurdity and anomaly of the small boroughs more glaring." 1389 élite 1390 s. d. s. d. 1391 1392 1393 1394 onus probandi onus probandi 1395
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he should not have risen on the present occasion had it not been that the large con-
 1405 1406 1407 1408
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that a Commission had been appointed to inquire into the condition of women and children employed in occupations not under the Factory Acts, and that they had made two or three Reports, in accordance with the recommendations contained in the first of which a Bill had been passed extending the operation of those Acts to certain other trades than those to which they previously applied. Their further Reports were under consideration, with the view to giving effect to their recommendations in reference to other trades, and it would, he thought, be inconvenient, until the inquiries of the Commission were concluded, to bring in such a general measure of consolidation as that which the noble Lord indicated.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he had a few nights ago undertaken to answer a question which had been put to him by the hon. Member for North Essex (Mr. DuCane), as to whether his attention had been called to a Report which had appeared in  The Times 1360 "Mr. F. H. N. Glossop, in moving for a rate of 1 d. Mars. 1361
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : The course of this debate has shown, and I think shown in a very marked manner, the advantage of the discussion of public questions in the House of Commons. During the recess we have heard of meetings held in various parts of the country, addressed by speakers of great ability and great eloquence; but, Sir, I am afraid that there is a tendency in the human mind which, when a speaker addresses an auditory brought together in support of some particular or preconceived views, where no controversy is intended, and where no controversy is allowed, leads him to resort rather to vague and empty declamation, and to exalt emphasis and energy of language above accuracy and above argument. In this House, on the other hand, we expect a fair and candid statement of the question which is to be discussed, and we expect arguments fairly and boldly addressed to that question; and when we find an absence of those arguments we not unnaturally suspect a weakness of the position which argument cannot defend. Now, I fear that this is a test which may fairly be applied to the somewhat remarkable speech of the Under-Secretary who has just resumed his place. We have heard from him that the constituency of Southwark contains a greater proportion of working men than any other constituency in the kingdom; but the hon. Gentleman says that the working men have no confidence in him, and that he does not represent them, and cannot speak for them. Far be it from me to
 1460 1461 1462 "Do you mean," said he "to tell me that herd Somers, who lived in an after time, was not himself a great authority, and to a large extent one of the builders of oar existing Constitution, and yet Lord Somers, being on a joint committee in the House of Lords, told a committee in the House of Commons, in conference, that although the Lords were of opinion that no man by birth had any right to an office, yet that in birth he had a light to a vote, and that the possession of the vote was the only true security which an Englishman had for the possession of his life and property." 1463 "That though the Lords allow that no man hath a place by birthright, or but few such examples in our Government, yet that giving a vote for a representative in Parliament is the essential privilege whereby every Englishman preserves his property, and that whatsoever deprives him of such vote deprives him of his birthright." "The representative body should be the image of the represented; not that it should represent property only, or multitude only, or farmers, or merchants, or manufacturers only; not that it should govern with the pride of an insulated aristocracy, or be carried to and fro with the breath of transient popularity; but that it should unite somewhat of all these things, and blend these various colours into one agreeable picture." 1464 1465 1466 "There ought to be not a wholesale nor an excessive, but a sensible and considerable addition to that portion of the working classes, at present almost infinitesimal, which is in possession of the franchise. Now, Sir, if I am asked what I mean by a sensible and considerable addition,' I reply that I mean such an addition as I think, and at the time contended in argument (3  Hansard, "You will have a total borough constituency, mi what I think the most liberal, the most extravagant estimate, in virtue of the present Bill, of 650,000. It is estimated that of 450,000, which now constitutes the entire borough constituency, about one-ninth belongs to the labouring classes, either as freemen, or scot and lot voters, or here and there £10 occupiers. Perhaps they are about: 50,000, and perhaps they would be three-fourths of the 200,000 which, on an extravagant supposition, may be added to the constituency. The labouring classes might be 200,000 in a borough constituency of 650,000—that is, they would be less than one-third of the whole borough constituency,"—[3  Hansard, 1467 1468 "If a £6 rental were added, I find that this would be the result. A £6 rental, calculated upon the most careful investigation, and making every allowance and deduction that ought to be made, would give 242,000 voters, whom I should take as all belonging to the working class, making a gross total of 428,000 persons, which would, in fact, place the working classes in a clear majority upon the constituency. Well, that has never been the intention of any Bill proposed in this House. I do not think it is a proposal that Parliament would adopt. I cannot say I think it would be attended with great danger, but I am sure it is not according to the view or expectation of Parliament. And although for my own part I do not think that much apprehension need be entertained with respect to the working classes, yet this I fully admit, that upon general grounds of political prudence it is not well to make sudden and extensive changes in the depository of political power. I do not think that we are called upon, under the circumstances, to give over the majority of town constituencies into the hands of the working class. We propose, therefore, to take the figure next above that—namely, £7 clear annual value." 1469 639,000; 511,000:: 206,000: 164,000. 1470 s. 1471 1472 1473 1474 s. 1475 1476 "Such a qualification in New York would include almost every male member of the community, except vagabonds, servants, and strangers. If the features of the Reform are correctly reported, it will strike the American mind as a most generous and comprehensive measure, certainly widening the suffrage quite as far as wisdom would justify. If it pass, it will gradually change the whole character of Parliament and of English political life. Henceforth, unless the distribution of boroughs be very unjust, the Liberal, Democratic, progressive party, headed by Mr. Bright and his friends, will have a prodigious increase of power. Four hundred thousand fresh voters, well distributed, would hold almost the balance of power in f tare elections. How they are to be distributed we do not know. This is the beginning of an Americanizing process in England." 1477
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I should be sorry to misrepresent anything that fell from the hon. Member, but I understood him to say that every considerable enfranchisement in itself was good.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : But what I want to know is—How are you to know the number to be enfranchised under the Bill? If the Government had said that they were not going to destroy the seats at all, then I agree with the hon. Member that he might have told how many voters we were going to have; but you might as well try to tell the quantity of water in a given place, by means of a vessel without a bottom, as strive to fell the number of voters which will be created under this Bill, unless you have some  data 1478 1479 1480 1481 1482 1483 "I think it would be a very good plan to have a reduction of the franchise in one Bill, and then to have a new Parliament, and that that new Parliament should proceed to redistribute the seats, because if the old Parliament should do that, the redistribution could not last even for the smallest possible space of time." not 1484 1485 "Now, I have ever been averse—and I think that aversion is justified by general observation and experience—to dealing in pledges for future Sessions. Such are the number and variety of the circumstances which must affect the position and duties of the Government of an empire like ours, that we must, in my opinion, look to the future itself to determine the proper opportunities for dealing with this important question. This, however, I am free to say, that while I am convinced the group of questions bound up with the complex subject of Parliamentary Reform are beyond handling in one Session, and especially in what remains to us of the present Session yet I cannot have the slightest doubt that if the Government find it to be their duty to follow up by a direct, sequel the proposition which they now
 1486 1487 1488 "Parliament is never hearty for Reform or for any good measure. It hated the Reform Bill of 1831 and 1832. It hated the Bill which repealed the Corn Law in 1846. It does not like the Franchise Bill now upon the table." "It is to a large extent the offspring of landlord power in the counties, and of tumult and corruption in the boroughs." "It would be strange if such a Parliament were in favour of freedom and of an honest representation of the people." "What should be done, and what must be done under these circumstances? You know what your fathers did thirty-four years ago, and you know the result. The men who in every speech they utter insult the working men, describing them as a multitude given up to ignorance and vice, will be the first to yield when the popular will is loudly and resolutely expressed. If Parliament Street, from Charing Cross to the venerable Abbey, were filled with men seeking a Reform Bill, as it was two years ago with men come to do honour to an illustrious Italian, these slanderers of their countrymen would learn to be civil, if they did not learn to love freedom.…If the population of the Birmingham district would set apart a day, not for 'humiliation,' but for a firm assertion of their rights, in great meetings or in one vast gathering, they might sustain this Franchise Bill and beat down as by one blow the power that threatens to bolt the door of Parliament against the people." 1489 1490 "In twenty years hence no person will ask who was the Minister of this country twenty years ago, but everyone will ask what is the Constitution under which we live? Has it handed down to us the liberties which our fathers enjoyed? Does it enable us to transmit to our children the blessings which we ourselves have received?" 1491
 MR. M'KENNA  said, that in rising to address the House for the first time, he was afraid he might go over ground already trodden: he would, however, endeavour to confine his remarks to the precise issue before the House, travelling out of that line as little as possible consistently with clearness. It might be well to state thus early, as it would tend to throw light on his future observations, that he intended to vote for the Amendment. He did so because he wished to show that he did not place a blind confidence in the Government. In adopting this course he denied that he opposed Reform: he believed that several measures of Reform were needed, one for each of the three countries constituting the United Kingdom; but in making this admission he claimed that the confidence of the House should not be abused, and that they should know what the bill of fare was. Now, the Ministry had brought forward their measure, not merely in a piecemeal manner, but they had failed to indicate what their bill of fare was. The noble Lord who last spoke upon the subject had said, that the Ministers were serving out the powder now, and promised that they should get the jam hereafter; but he would, perhaps, be pardoned if he were to say that they were being coaxed into taking the jam now, and that they would be forced to take the powder afterwards. The proposition of the Ministry was pretty nearly this: they said, "Take this dish which we now offer you, which certainly ought to be palatable. Take it, and when you have taken it, what we offer you next we promise you, whether palatable or not, shall at least be wholesome." He thought the House was entitled to have the full confidence of the Ministers extended to it before it placed them on the vantage ground which would give them a powerful constituency at their back to force their wishes on the House, or to carry other measures in a future Parliament to which this House would not now consent. Many reasons had been urged on the Ministerial side of the House in favour of the Bill, to many of which he gave his full assent; and he granted that the arguments of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. S. Mill)
 1396 1397 1398 s. 1399
 MR. LESLIE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether the new Order in Council, dated the 11th instant, continues to county local authorities the power to regulate the admission of cattle into their respective counties, as to them may, from time to time, seem proper and expedient?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that he had no doubt that the 49th section of the Order in Council referred to, continued to the local authorities the powers which they previously possessed to prevent the introduction of cattle into their respective counties.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  replied that no express provision of that kind had been deemed to be necessary. The arrangements entered into had been based upon existing requirements. It might hereafter become expedient to have extra Courts which would at the present time be useless.
 MR. OTWAY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether the Government adheres to its intention of disfranchising the Artizans in Her Majesty's Dockyards, Arsenals, and Factories?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have to state, Sir, in reply to the Question of my hon. Friend, that I do not think it would be for the convenience of the House that I should state at the present moment what the course is which the Government are prepared to take with reference to particular clauses of the Franchise Bill. That observation I would apply to all the clauses of the Bill even the most vital, and of course it is still more applicable to a clause which is beside the main purpose of the measure and independent of its essence.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that the 7th Hussars would in all probability return home early in the year 1871, after 13½ years' service; the 2nd Dragoon Guards in 1869, after 11½ years' service; and the 3rd Dragoon Guards in 1870, after 12½ years' service. So lengthened a period of service in India arose from the fact that eight cavalry regiments had been sent to India in 1857–8, during the existence of the Mutiny; and that, as it was not possible to commence the reliefs till 1863, it was found necessary to keep a few of those regiments in India for a longer period than usual.
 MR. SURTEES  said, he felt that the able arguments that they had listened to that evening in favour of the repeal of the malt tax applied with even greater force than similar arguments last year, because since that time about £3,000,000 or £4,000,000 of taxes had been repealed which were said to press upon other interests in this country. He would endeavour, with the leave of the House, to point out one of the many modes in which the malt tax operated prejudicially to the interests of the grower of barley. Formerly it was the custom for maltsters to attend the country markets and themselves purchase the barley they required, paying the farmer for it the following week; but since the Chancellor of the Exchequer had reduced the time for the malt credits the maltster required a larger amount of capital to enable him to transact the same amount of business as formerly, or he must do a smaller amount of business with the same capital. Well, what was the result? The maltster now not unfrequently, when he attended the country market, stood by, looking on, and when a farmer took a sample of barley to him, worth, say, 35 s. s s. s, s. s. 1539 1540 s. s. d. s. s.
 MR. BUXTON  said, he did not intend to go into the general question, but he could not pass by without protest the astonishing and outrageous assertions which had been made respecting the profits made by brewers on the capital invested in their business. The calculations of the hon. I and learned Gentleman the Member for East Suffolk had produced a somewhat soporific effect upon him, and as the statement of the hon. Gentleman mingled with his dreams he almost thought he was in Paradise. The hon. and learned Gentleman had spoken of 50 or 60 per cent profit, and made out that the tax of £6,000,000 received by the Exchequer acted as a harden to the consumer of more than £20,000,000. Now, he would appeal to the common sense of the House as to whether it were possible that any hon. Gentleman should lend £10,000 to a maltster, and that in the course of three months that sum should by some magical process increase itself to between £30,000 and £40,000. The malt tax was paid upon malt which, probably within three months, on the average, would be sold in beer. Now, was it possible that the sum paid to Government as malt tax should re-produce itself with such rapidity as to yield to the maltster, the brewer, and the publican a
 1547 s. s. s. s. 1548
 MR. SCOURFIELD , in moving for leave to bring in a Bill for the Registration of Railway Debentures, said, that the Bill was substantially the same as that introduced last Session. He understood that the Government intended to bring in a Bill to the same effect, and, therefore, he should only move for leave to bring in the Bill and that it should be printed.
 GENERAL DUNNE  supported the Motion.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he did not object to the measure
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I will say a word first, with the permission of the House, in regard to the Amendment which has been moved by my hon. Friend, and I venture respectfully to ask him to withdraw his Amendment. I was very sorry that my hon. and learned Friend described himself as unable, from, not having expected the subject to be opened to-night, to do full justice to the matter. I may say, likewise, the admirable, the remarkable speech of my hon. Friend the Member for Westminster had but one fault with reference to the subject to which it referred, and that was its brevity. But the question raised by the Amendment is, I think, by far too important to be dealt with in a manner purely incidental to the subject. And I am bound also to observe, and I think my hon. and learned Friend the Mover of that Amendment will concur with me, that there would be something invidious in taking a particular tax out of the category for reduction, and setting it aside for affecting permanently the reduction of the National Debt. The question raised by the Amendment is one which I hope will not be pressed to a division at present; not because it is not a matter fit to be entertained, but, on the contrary, on account of its importance; and I will go one-step farther, and say on account of its urgency, for I am very strongly persuaded that it is a subject that should be fully unfolded before the House and taken into its consideration, and I may venture to say that it is my intention to take the opportunity of offering some observations to the House upon it when I make my financial statement. No decision on this occasion would, I think, be satisfactory in connection with this question. Well, pass to the Motion made by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for East Suffolk, and I am afraid he will be thinking I repeat an old formulary when I once again make the protest I have made scores of times with regard to committing the judgment of the House by anticipation in
 1566 "That upon any future remission of indirect taxation this House will take into consideration the duty upon Malt, with a view to its immediate reduction and ultimate repeal." 1567 1568 1569 s. primâ facie 1570 1571 1572 1573
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  had no objection to the Amendments proposed.
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  concurred with those hon. Gentlemen who felt it necessary to limit the poor's rate charges, but he considered that the object of this Bill was a useful one, and it had received the approval of Boards of Guardians in the North of Ireland.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  did not think the Bill should receive the sanction of the House. He should not wish, however, to do so harsh a thing as to move its rejection, but he thought it would be well to postpone its consideration. He had been for twenty years chairman of a union, and he had received no intimation that such a Bill was wanted.
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  said, that no new principle was involved in this Bill, which merely supplied an accidental omission in former legislation. This House, when it repealed the Vestry Cess Act, imagined that it was providing the power for burying poor people in Ireland He believed the Bill to be necessary on the score of humanity and decency.
 MR. COWPER , in reply, said, he had received from the President of the Royal Academy a letter stating that the Academy had determined to make those alterations in their constitution which the Government deemed to be expedient, with the view to rendering that institution more conducive to the purposes for which it was founded. He should be prepared to lay that communication on the table of the House. The proposals made by the Academy were, he might add, entirely approved by the Government.
 MR. DE GREY  had to apologize to the House for occupying their attention when so many older Members better qualified to discuss this question might more profitably have claimed to be heard; but it was a question in which his constituents took so deep an interest that he felt he should not be justified in remaining altogether silent upon the occasion. As having the honour to represent the great barley growers of West Norfolk, he must claim the indulgence of the House; and as their advocate, he ventured to say that they were entitled to be heard when they claimed justice from Parliament upon a question which they conceived and rightly believed most materially to affect their interest. They asserted that the pressure of this tax was a most serious interference with the arrangements by which their business was carried on. They were prohibited from converting the produce of their land to such purposes as might be most advantageous; and, above all, they justly complained that good faith had not been kept with them, and that the promise made to them by the great apostle of free trade,
 1549 "Not sanguine enough to hope that the agriculturists will be more fortunate during the next fifteen years than they had been during the last." 1550 1551 1552 1553
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  agreed with the hon. and learned Member for Wexford, that the Bill would lead to a vast amount of jobbing. He found the strongest objec-
 1578
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, When the following Cavalry Regiments will return from India: the 7th Hussars and the 2nd and 3rd Dragoon Guards; and what length of time each of these Regiments will have served in India?
 MR. AYRTON  stated his intention to support the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the course it was expected he would pursue, although he did not desire to press upon the right hon. Gentleman the acceptance of the precise terms of the Amendment. If any person, whether a spirit-drinker or a seller of beer, were to ask him what he would do with reference to the repeal of the malt tax, he would be content to give him this short answer, "So long as the House of Commons encourages our present expenditure, the people must bear their share of the taxes, and they must pay them either in meal or in malt; and I think it far better for them that they should pay in malt than in meal." He thought if Gentlemen opposite had as much regard for the agricultural classes in the counties as he thought hon. Members on their side showed for the working classes in the towns, when they gave such an answer as that he had stated, that they would not be so solicitous to obtain the repeal of the malt tax. Throughout the reports of the investigation into the state of the labourers of England made by the Assistant Poor Law Commissioners appeared painful evidences of the effect upon the rural population of the country of the drinking of beer, which was found to be one of the chief causes of the state of degradation into which they had fallen, and he did not deny that such was the case in the towns. If there should be a remission of the duty on malt, it ought to be for the benefit of the consumers; but the people who would be the chief gainers by its repeal would be the farmers. An attempt had been made to draw an analogy between the duty on malt and that formerly imposed on hops, but, in his opinion, it had signally failed.
 1560 s. 1561 1562
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that he had no reason to believe the statement to be correct. Her Majesty's Government had received no intimation to the effect that a treaty had been concludedet ween Prussia and Italy.
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the proposals submitted to the Treasury by the Judge of the Court of Probate for the future regulation of the Salaries and Emoluments of the Clerks and Officers of that Court embraced the District Registries?
 MR. NEATE , while admitting that the
 1522 1523 "That in the present state of the taxation and resources of the Country it is the duty of Parliament to make provision for the systematic reduction of the National Debt, and not to sanction
 1524
 MR. NEATE  said, he would withdraw his Amendment.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  complained of this attack upon himself, and said, that he had considered the Bill carefully, and had not the least apprehension that it would lead to any direful consequences. Precisely the same measure in another form had been introduced by his predecessor, and had received the unanimous sanction of the House. He proposed the Amendments to simplify the Bill and make it more practicable. All that it did was to enable Poor Law guardians to provide coffins for persons who had been in receipt of outdoor relief.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE , in moving certain Amendments to this Bill, said, that his object in so doing was simply to reduce the Bill to the form of the measure which had passed through the House, without opposition, in 1864, but which had failed to pass the House of Lords.
 MR. READ  said, it might seem presumption in him to follow one of the greatest living philosophers (Mr. J. Stuart Mill), but he must trust to his practical knowledge on the subject to make some amends. It did strike him that the learned and eloquent essay they had just heard on coal fields and the National Debt had specially nothing to do with the malt tax. He could not for the life of him understand why, when farmers asked for their fair share of the reductions in taxation which had been so general, they should be met by such an argument now used for the first time. The hon. and learned Member for East Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), in introducing the subject, had spoken of it in such exhaustive terms that it only remained for him to view it in its agricultural aspect. Farmers sought for the repeal of the malt tax to enable them to enjoy some of the advantages of free agriculture which other classes derived from free trade. As a class they had obtained very few of those bene-
 1529 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d. 1530 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., s. d. s. s. 1531 s. d. s. d. s. d. b., 1532 1533 d. d. s. 1534 s.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, the Gentlemen opposite had clearly proved that in the case of an indirect tax there were separate profits charged thereon by the original producer, the middleman, and the retailer, all enhancing the price, and raising it by an amount in excess of that received by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, But the points thus established were not peculiar to the malt tax. They applied to all indirect taxation. Having been for many years a member of the Liverpool Financial Association he rejoiced to hear the principles of that body so clearly enunciated on the other side of the House. The tax was discussed as one affecting the working classes, but many other articles besides beer were consumed by the working classes, remission of taxation with regard to which would be equally or move beneficial to them. The tax upon beer and that upon sugar equally produced about £6,000,000 to the State, and as regarded the burden upon the consumer he could not see that a shadow of difference was made by one article being produced abroad and the other at home. The tax upon malt, like that upon sugar, was about 33 per cent, but the tax upon tobacco and grain whisky was at the rate of 600 per cent; and therefore in the case of tobacco and spirits, the loss to the public through the several profits of producer, middleman, and retailer, was enormously greater than in the case of malt. A pound of tobacco cost about 6 d., s. d. s. d., s. 1554 1555
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, there was a difference of opinion as to the precise effect of this tax. He could not endorse the opinion of the hon. and learned Member that while the amount spent in beer was £60,000,000, £20,000,000 of it were occasioned by the aggravation of the tax; nor could lie agree with the President of the Board of Trade (Mr. Milner Gibson) that the duty on the barrel of beer was only an addition of 12½ per cent to the consumer. The duty on the barrel instead of being only 6 s. s., s. s. s. 1535 "O fortunati nimiùm si bona sua nôrint Agricolæ!" s. s. s., s. s. s. d., s. d., s. d. s. d., s. s. s. 1536 "Firm and erect the Caledonian stood, Prime was his mutton and his claret good; Let him drink port! the wily Saxon cried, He drank the poison, and his spirit died." s. s. 1537 d. d., d. d. 1538
 SIR FITZROY KELLY : Sir, I rise to move—
 "That upon any future remission of indirect taxation, this House will take into consideration the Duty upon Malt with a view to its immediate reduction and ultimate repeal." 1510 "No one can feel a more intimate conviction than I do that, whatever be your financial difficulties or necessities, you must so adapt and adjust your measures as not to bear on the comforts," [still less, he might have said, on the necessaries of life,] "of the labouring classes of society." 1511 1512 d. pari passu, s. d. d. d. d. d. 1513 s. s. The Economist, The Economist; 1514 s. d. s. d., s. d., s. d. d., d., d. s., s., s., s. s. s. d. s. d. The Economist. s., s. s., s. s. 1515 1516 s. s., s. s., s., s., s. s., s. s. d. s. d., s. s. d. d. s. d. d. s. d. s., d. d. 1517 d. d. d. s. d. pari passu 1518 pari passu 1519
 COLONEL FRENCH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether, with reference to the pledge which has been given to this House, that all the public and  bonâ fide
 GENERAL DUNNE  complained of the whole conduct of the Irish Government, which ought to have dealt with this matter, instead of proposing Amendments to the Bill without explaining them. He thought they ought to have some test by which to know that a person was so destitute as to require this assistance.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the greater part of the observations which had been made in opposition to the Motion of his hon. and learned Friend, and certainly the whole of the declamation of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets, might have been spared if the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had only taken the suggestion of his hon. Friend the Member for North Essex (Mr. Du Cane), and substituted a tax on beer for that on malt. The consumers of beer had not called for the repeal of the malt tax, although the tax was indirectly imposed on them, and it would be only consistent with the principles which had guided the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the last ten years to lay this tax on the consumers. The reduction of the tax was imperatively demanded as an act of justice to those who had so long agitated for its repeal. The farmers who produced barley laboured under an intolerable grievance in conducting their business, for they frequently could not sell their produce for malting, because under the present system it could not to the profit of the maltster be converted into malt. The farmer looked on this tax much as a cotton manufacturer would on an import duty on cotton, or a coal owner on an export duty on coal; and so long as the tax remained there would always be an idea of injustice. A tax on beer sold by brewers at the rate of 1 d. 1565
 MR. WHALLEY  did not think separate legislation for Ireland desirable in these cases, as it might be a quiet mode of confiscation or of concession to some party or other.
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for die Home Department, When the Government will introduce their promised measure for the extension of the Factory Acts; and whether the Government has considered the desirability of regulating the employment and education of children who are employed in agriculture?
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, the proposal before the Treasury for a classification of the clerks of the Probate Court applies only to the principal Registry, and has no reference to the District Registries.
 MR. STANSFELD , in reply, said, he could give no definite answer to the Question at present, as the Report of the Commission had not as yet been received by the Government.
 MR. GEORGE  considered the Bill one I of a dangerous description, as it would induce fraudulent misrepresentations, and throw charges upon the poor's rates, which ought not properly to be paid out of them.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that as the malt tax had been in existence for five generations, there was no man living who inherited property except that which was subject to its operation. There was, therefore, no ground for regarding it as a grievance upon individuals. Neither was it a greater upon consumers connected with land, more than on other consumers connected with other industries. On the contrary, he supposed that the swarthy blacksmith of Wolverhampton or Birmingham, or the coal-heaver of the Thames would consume four times as much malt liquor as
 1563 1564
 MR. MAGUIRE  also supported the Bill, but pointed out the difficulty there was at present in providing coffins for the poor.
 MR. J. STUART MILL : In rising to second the Amendment of my hon. Friend the Member for Oxford, I hope I shall not be suspected of any disposition to abuse the indulgence which the House has so recently and so kindly extended to me. But I have for some time felt so serious, I may say so solemn a conviction upon the subject which my hon. Friend has brought forward, that it is almost a matter of conscience with me not to let slip an occasion of endeavouring to impress that conviction on some hon. Members of this House. Not long ago it might not altogether unreasonably be supposed that the unrivalled growth of this country in every kind of wealth—the limits of which it seemed impossible to define—was an excuse to us, and even a justification, for leaving our pecuniary obligations, without any serious attempt to reduce them, to weigh upon posterity, whom we might reasonably expect to be better able to support them than we ourselves are. This, however, was at no time a conclusive argument or a sound excuse, because future generations will have their own exigencies too; and we have had an example of it in the fact that not many years ago two years of war sufficed to re-add to our National Debt nearly as much as had been subtracted from it by the savings of fifty years. But, more recently, facts have been brought to our notice, which have been too much overlooked; showing that the excuse we made to ourselves is not admissible in the case of a nation whose population greatly exceeds that which with the existing resources of science can be supported from its own soil; who are therefore dependent for subsistence on the power of disposing of their goods in foreign markets and whose command over those markets depends upon the continued possession of an exhaustible material. The termination of our coal supplies, though always certain, has always until lately appeared so distant, that it seemed quite unnecessary for the present generation to occupy itself with the question. The reason was that all our calculations were grounded upon the existing rate of consumption; but the fact now is that our consumption of coals increases with such extraordinary rapidity from year to year, that the probable exhaustion of our supplies is no longer a question of centuries, but of generations. I hope there are many
 1525 The Coal Question. 1526 1527 1528
 MR. E. JASPER MORE , in seconding the Motion, said, the constituents of hon. Gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House were not the only persons throughout the country who took an interest in the repeal of the malt tax. On the other hand, he was glad to find that an increasing number of hon. Gentlemen who support the repeal had been returned in the present Parliament to sit on his side of the House. He believed the House had never realized how great an interest was taken in this question in many parts of the country; and perhaps it was impossible for this to be realized in a House in which
 1520 1521
 MR. AYTOUN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill during the present Session for the purpose of granting a new Charter to the Queen's University in Ireland, or of altering the composition of the Senate; and, if so, whether the Bill will be brought in at an early period of the Session?
 MR. KEKEWICH  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Dumfries, Why it is that he has withdrawn the Notice which he had given of his intention to put a Question to the Government in reference to the execution of Mary Ashford? He (Mr. Kekewich) was anxious to know whether it was because the hon. Member had ascertained that he was under a misapprehension as to the facts of the case when he gave the notice, which seemed to cast some imputation on the conduct of the authorities implicated in the matter?
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether in the arrangements of the new Courts of Justice any provision has been contemplated for an increase in the number of Judges?
 MR. W. B. BEAUMONT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has reason to believe the statement to be substantially correct in the  Neues Fremdenblatt The Times
 MR. BEACH  said, that if the Amendment were adopted it would operate against the reduction of any tax unless it could be shown that no diminution of revenue would take place as the result of the remission. He was reminded by the speech of the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. J. Stuart Mill) of the circumstance that at the time of the French Treat) many of the Gentlemen sitting on the Opposition side of the House argued that it was scarcely expedient to sanction the free removal from this country of coal, which was one of our most important products, in exchange for merely foreign luxuries. He was not however one of those who took a vindictive pleasure in the success of prediction when it was not for the benefit of the people, but he could not help being reminded of the arguments that had been used on that occasion. The hon. Member called the plan of Mr. Pitt for reducing the National Debt unfortunate. It was not unfortunate in its conception, for it was cordially approved of by Mr. Fox and the leading statesmen of the time, but in its result—and why? Because the
 1543 s. d. 1544 d., s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 1545 s. d. b. d., "If there were no factitious cause for elevating the price of barley, arising from the direct effect of a duty on foreign barley, or from the indirect effect of duties of other kinds on foreign corn, we should not feel any hesitation in saying that the proper way of dealing with the malt duty would be to reduce it one-half. But nothing, in our opinion, can be more unwise than to reduce duties on articles which are fit subjects for taxation without at the same time taking care to secure the most abundant supply that is possible to be secured of the materials which are necessary for their production." 1546 "If the duty were reduced to one-half, there seems to be reason to expect, provided that a sufficient supply of barley could be obtained, that the reduction weald not be followed ultimately by any loss of revenue."
 MR. W. EWART  said, in reply, that his attention had been drawn to the case by the painful accounts of the execution which had appeared in the public press. He had, in consequence, given notice that he would put a Question to the Secretary of State for the Home Department with the view of ascertaining whether those accounts were correct. He had since, however, ascertained that they were very much exaggerated, the only one of the statements made, he believed, which was perfectly accurate being that the unfortunate woman had been led to execution supported by two men. He had not, under those circumstances, deemed it necessary to act upon the notice which he had given, and he should certainly have stated the reasons which induced him to withdraw it, even though no Question on the subject had been put to him.
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether he has received any communication from the President of the Royal Academy on the subject of changes in the constitution of the Academy, whether that communication has been approved of by the Government; and, whether he will order it to be laid before the House?
 MR. W. R. ORMSBY GORE , while approving the object of the Bill, protested against the words "and other necessaries" after the word "coffin," as those "necessaries" might be taken to mean tobacco, whisky, and all sorts of things.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  could not see why malt had not been dealt with in the same way as other articles, the duties upon which had been repealed during the last twenty-four years. Glass, sugar, timber, soap, wine, paper, ribands, gloves, playing cards, and other things had been the subjects of the repeal of taxation, and it was difficult to say why the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer
 1541 d. d. 1542
 MR. DU CANE  did not rise to discuss the question of how far the support of the Resolutions of the hon. Member for Suffolk would carry out the principles of the Liverpool Financial Reform Association. All he would say was that he was glad to hear that the hon. Member opposite was going to support the Resolutions of his hon. and learned Friend (Sir FitzRoy Kelly); and all he could say further was that he hoped they would be both successful in getting rid of the malt tax, and then there would be time to argue how far they could agree with respect to other matters of taxation. Nor did he rise to follow that able, eloquent, but somewhat discursive speech of the hon. Member for Westminster. We had hitherto been told that the repeal of the malt tax was a subject of the dullest and most prosaic character that could be discussed in the House; but he thought the hon. Member for Westminster had just achieved the highest oratorical triumph which he had as yet gained in the House, for he had managed on the dry and prosaic subject of the malt tax to interpolate an eloquent dissertation on the blessings of posterity from the days of Marathon and Salamis down to those of Leipsic and Waterloo, and he had further managed to connect the subject with the illustrious names of Newton, Locke, and Bacon. But when the hon. Member for Westminster descanted on the gradual deficiency in the supply of the coal-fields of the country he felt that the hon. Member was bringing us down to an era of more recent date than the days of Marathon and Salamis, and he (Mr. Du Cane) was reminded of the days when he took a somewhat leading part in opposing the passing of the French Commercial Treaty—a treaty which, besides placing English beer on an unequal footing with French wine, left the gradual supply of our coal-fields to the tender mercies of the French nation. Every argument which had been adduced by the hon. Member to-night had been then advanced on that (the Opposition) side of the House. But hon. Members opposite, in their zeal for the passing of the French Treaty, did not at that time think of the posterity that was to come after them, and were ready to leave posterity for a few hundred years to come to shiver through the inclemency of an English winter, and cry, "Poor Tom's a cold," whilst they did not by any means bless the memory of their ancestors. He did not
 1556 "Of all our crops, barley is the most friendly to the farmer. It is the shortest time in the ground, is the least exhaustive of soil, is sown at the best season for clearing and cultivation, whilst it affords the best preparation for grass, and is the most suitable to be followed by green crops. Barley promotes good husbandry, and the price of meat in this country must become a matter of increasing importance. The rise in the price of meat during the last ten or fifteen years is equal to nearly £20,000,000 per annum." "The barley farmer can scarcely be a bad farmer. His corn crop is not only, less severe on the land, but is succeeded by green crops and grass. It would be an immense advantage if barley could to a large extent be substituted for wheat." 1557 1558 1559 "When the hurly-burly's done, And the battle's lost or won,"
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE , who could not concur in the expediency of rejecting good measures because their operation would involve expense, had known inconvenience arise from there being no public authority to bury poor people. Subscriptions had been entered into, and far too much had often been subscribed. This amounted to a heavier tax than was proposed by the Bill, while the money raised had not only buried the deceased, but regaled the living.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, he proposed to introduce a Bill the object of which would be to give effect to the intentions of the Government as stated in the letter of the Lord Lieutenant; but he
 1507
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply to the first Question of the hon. Member, that it was not possible at present to fix a day for the introduction of the Bill. The last Report of the Factory Inspectors applied to a variety of trades, and it would require some time as well as much consideration to deal with the various details connected with the subject The process of investigating them with a view to legislation was, however, being carried on with all due despatch. The Government had no intention at present of dealing with the subject of his hon. Friend's second Question.
 MR. BAGGALLAY  thought that the Bill would not do much good, and that it would open the door to fraud; and, therefore, in order to save the pockets of the ratepayers, he would vote against it if there were a division.
 MR. BERESEORD HOPE  said, he must join the hon. Member for East Kent in the commendation he had passed on the very able argument which the hon. and learned Member for Canterbury had used in support of this Bill. The only objection he could make to that argument was that it was one that might carry the House away with it, when the entire case had not been put before it. The case that had been brought forward was that certain frauds existed in the hop trade—frauds in quality, frauds in weight, and frauds of a grosser description—which the buyer, the brewer, and the drinker had a right to arm themselves against. That was, no doubt, true, but while it was very desirable to suppress fraud wherever it existed, it was at the same time necessary to be careful not to inflict or to perpetuate an injury upon any class. The hon. and learned Gentleman proposed to restore an antiquated penal enactment, while professing to deal with principles borrowed from the commercial legislation of late years. Did he lay down a new system—did he propose a new code of hop commerce suitable to the principles of modern commerce and free trade, which happily now prevailed in hops as in other articles? In this Bill were recited certain antiquated Acts of Parliament which were passed at a period when it
 1592 1593
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , while acknowledging the courtesy of his hon. and learned Friend in offering to postpone the discussion upon the Bill for the convenience of the Government, was afraid he could not conscientiously acquiesce in his proposition to postpone this Bill to some future period of the Session, inasmuch as he could not see any prospect of the horizon of public business being any way clearer a month or six weeks hence than it was at present. He was in no degree surprised that his hon. and learned Friend should feel some impatience with reference to the present state of the law of banking in Ireland, and that he should be prepared to resist the dilatory plea that they were too busy just now to deal with the matter. He could, however, assure the hon. and learned Gentleman that the Government, in conjunction with gentlemen who had paid great attention to this subject, had carefully considered the provisions of the Bill before the House. Had it been in their power consistently with their duty to the public to have assented to the Bill they would undoubtedly have done so, but he would proceed to state the reasons which had unfortunately led them to refuse their assent to it. His hon. and learned Friend said he was willing to enter into an engagement either to drop the first portion of the Bill in Committee or to withdraw the Bill altogether, and to introduce a fresh Bill having reference to the second portion only of the Bill. It would, however, undoubtedly be a very objectionable proceeding were the House to assent to the second reading of a Bill with the view of casting out its principal part in Committee. He would briefly state the reasons which he thought were conclusive against both portions of the Bill. In the first place, as to the proposal to make Bank of England notes a legal tender in Ireland, the hon. Baronet said that in order that the Bank should have no just cause of complaint, he did not propose to oblige the Bank of England to open any branches in Ireland, and he thus deprived that Bank of any proprietary or commercial objection to the Bill by which otherwise it might have been seriously affected. But he (the Chancellor of the Exchequer) considered that,
 1604 1605 1606 1607 primâ facie 1608
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  stated that it was not the intention of the Government to offer any opposition to going into Committee on this measure, for there was a great deal in the Bill which might be considered and adopted. At present in all cases of summary conviction the expenses could be certified by the magistrate, and in cases of felony or misdemeanor, triable at assizes or quarter sessions, the expenses were certified by the committing magistrate and forwarded to the Crown Office, and then, if found reasonable, they were allowed. Where, however, a charge was not sufficiently proved to justify a committal, the expenses of witnesses could not, under the present regulations, be allowed Those witnesses might have been brought up from a distance, at great cost, and the case might have been a most proper one for investigation, but the absence of some link in the chain of evidence might cause a dismissal, and it was only just that provision should be made for the payment of expenses in such cases. Then came the question whether the charge should be imposed on the Treasury, The Treasury, in the case of committals, had a security for the case being thoroughly inquired into by the second and final tribunal, and the Judge or Chairman of Quarter Sessions, if satisfied that the expenses had been properly incurred, made an order, and the sum was immediately paid by the Treasury. Where there was no committal the inquiry was far less complete, and there was not the same security for the prosecution having been rightly instituted. The Government, therefore, in assenting to the Bill, did so, on the clear understanding that the charge it involved should not be borne by the Treasury,
 MR. GOODSON  assented to the Amendment, which was agreed to.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that there was much of the measure of which he could not approve. It appeared to him that it afforded no sufficient guarantee for the protection of the rights of the inhabitants of the towns and of the private residences situated along the river. The state of things in the upper part of the river was such that he believed that if something were not done soon the whole thing would revert to a state of nature. A Commission had been inquiring into the state of the river, and they had lately presented a Report, but had not favoured the public with the evidence on which it was founded. The inquiry carried on by the Commission was carried on principally in relation to what was called the pollution of the river, which was a matter not connected with navigation, except so far that they both concerned the river. The Report of the
 1612
 MR. DENMAN  said, that if this Bill should become law it might be found desirable to place fresh power in the hands of the conservators of the river for regulating the traffic on days like that of the University boat race. If this were not done probably some terrible accident would occur, and many lives might be sacrificed, and then perhaps Parliament would be called on to interfere. He found there was no body which had a right to make rules respecting the manner in which steam-boats should proceed along the stream on occasions of great aquatic festivals; for the Thames Conservancy Board had only a right to determine how vessels should be placed at their moorings, and to make minor regulations as to the navigation, The Commissioners had not a right to stop the progress of steamers even for a quarter of an hour. If fresh powers were; to be granted to the Commissioners, he thought it would be well to invest them with authority that might be exercised usefully on an occasion like that he had referred to, and on similar occasions. He thought such a body ought to be competent to deal with a matter of that sort. If a Select Committee were called upon to deal with the question he hoped there would be an instruction to them to frame proper regulations to insure the public safety and convenience.
 MR. AYRTON  thought that the subject referred to by the hon. and learned Gentleman was purely a question of police, and had better be committed to such a body as that proposed for regulating the traffic of the metropolis. The Bill proposing to grant fresh powers to the police to regulate the metropilitan traffic would soon come under consideration, and as there were police on the river, they would be the persons best
 1614
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he would withdraw the Amendment.
 MR. NEATE  said, he should not oppose the second reading of the Bill, although his own judgment told him that this new body would not be found able to discharge the trust it was proposed to impose on them. He objected to the scope of the Bill, which ought to have included not only the navigation but also the management of the Thames. This matter was looked at differently now from what it was sixty or seventy years ago; then the important point was the navigation of the river, and the sewage question had not arisen. Now the important point was the sewage. The upper part of the Thames was not useful at all for the purposes of
 1613
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH , in moving the second reading of this Bill, explained that it was identical with the Bill upon the same subject introduced in the year 1864. That Bill passed the first and second readings, and was sifted in Committee to a single clause, but the third reading was not proceeded with through the Session being so near its close and other causes. There was a clerical error in the title of the present Bill, but that could be rectified in Committee if necessary. The object of the Bill was to correct a certain malversation in the mode of voting in public companies, by extending the powers of the shareholders, and enabling them to vote after they knew what they were voting about instead of before, and its operation was restricted to those companies formed under the Companies Consolidation Act of 1845. Under that Act, shareholders were enabled to vote in one of two ways—either by proxies sent in forty-eight hours previous to the time for the holding of the meeting, or by personally giving their votes. But the shareholders of some of the railway companies numbered many thousands, and there was no room in the country that would contain them if they were disposed to attend. It was obvious, however, that gentlemen conducting large mercantile operations in Manchester or Liverpool would rarely be able to be present at meetings held in the south of England, and it would also be impossible to expect that ladies, who formed a large proportion of railway shareholders, would attend and take part in the proceedings. The other mode of voting—namely, by proxy—was exceedingly reprehensible, seeing that it left the way open to the directors to resort to various artifices in order to secure the
 1581 1582 1583
 MR. GREENE  felt that there was not much sympathy for the brewers in that House, but he thought they had a strong claim on the consideration of the House, inasmuch as they were the payers of the hop duty, which had been transferred by the legislation of the House from the hop-growers to the brewers. A man who understood hops might be able to tell one kind of hop from another; but, at the same time, it was impossible for him to tell on what soil those hops were grown, and that formed the whole gist of the question. Golding hops, for instance, which were grown in Sussex, would not, from the nature of the soil, impart those peculiar qualities either of flavour or of keeping which were essential to the ale for which they were used. None but those engaged in the business knew the disappointment and the loss, both in a pecuniary sense and in credit, which was sustained when brewers sent out a large quantity of beer for summer use, and were deceived in the hops they had used. It was also, in his opinion, due to the grower of the hops, as well as to the buyer and consumer, that they should be marked, for it was not right that a man paying a high rent in East Kent should be liable to competition with the growers of Sussex or the Weald of Kent, who would palm their hops off upon the public in unfair competition with his. The goldings and finer sorts of hops were more delicate and difficult to grow than the coarser qualities, and the grower was more liable to blight and short crops, and that also was a matter which should be taken into consideration. A good deal had been said about another Bill now in the course of discussion being an honest Bill. It might be so, or it might not; but he thought this Bill was essential to make men honest. He had no doubt that in the hop trade there were men engaged who were as honourable as any others in the world, but there were also a vast number who lived by trickery and fraud. The protection of this Bill was needed especially for the small brewers, on whom inferior hops were palmed off,
 1597
 MR. KNIGHT  said, that hops were unlike any other article in this respect, that their comparative value depended on a certain aroma which they derived from the particular place in which they were grown, but which could only be discovered by the taste when they were manufactured into beer. The Sussex growers wished to force their hops upon the market as the best hops, but the growers in all the other districts in England wore opposed to that pretention, and that was the origin of all the contention that had arisen upon the subject.
 MR. CUBITT  must express the cordial approval of his constituents with
 1598
 MR. LOCKE  said, that he represented an interest different from that represented by the Mover and Seconder of the second reading of the Bill. He stood there as the representative of hop merchants and brewers in the Borough, from whom he had presented a petition strongly in favour of the Bill. Hops did not come within the category of other articles of trade, and the principle of  caveat emptor Geo. "An Act to amend Acts 39th and 40th of the reign of His Majesty to prevent Fraud and Abuses in the Trade of Hops." 1594 1595 1596
 MR. LOCKE  said, he, for one, had never entertained an idea that he was one of 800 persons having a voice in the regulation of the river Thames. Now the question had been raised, he thought the right hon. Gentleman would be very wrong to sanction the creation of a divided authority, or to give to persons in the upper districts the power of determining the amount of water supply that should be given to those at the lower extremity when the interests affected were so immeasurably greater. He was himself in favour of placing the whole government of the matter in the hands of the Thames Conservancy Board.
 Mr. PIM  said, it appeared to him that a clear case had been made out for the passing of some such Bill as that under the consideration of the House. He considered the case of hops very similar to the case of the trade-marks which a manufacturer had a right to place on his goods. It was manifestly desirable to know the soil in which the hops were grown, for their quality varied very much in certain districts. The quality could not be known till the article was used. At present great facility was given to fraud, and there was a corresponding necessity for guarding against it. All the security required would be given by the provisions of this Bill.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  was not competent to enter into the controversy between the hopgrowers of Kent and Sussex, but would consider this solely as a question of general policy. For his own part, he must say there was considerable force in the observations of his hon. Friend the Member for Finsbury (Mr. Alderman Lusk), in regard to the compulsory branding or marking of any description of produce or manufacture. Certainly recent legislation had gone in the opposite direction. They had now before them a very able Report from the Fishery Commissioners, recommending the abolition of the branding of herrings. But then his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) said the hop trade was an exceptional one, there was something about hops so peculiar, and the buyer was in such difficulties as to the equality of the article he wished to purchase, that it was necessary for his protection to enact some compulsory system of marking. If that were so, it was a very peculiar case, and he should be the last not to defer to the unanimous opinion of a Committee which was no doubt competent to form a judgment on the question. The Bill contained the provision, that persons should be required to put on marks indicating the place where the hops had been grown, and that if these marks were false there should be a summary mode of enforcing the penalties against persons so deceiving the public. There was no doubt that if the marks were to be compulsory there must be some provisions of that kind to prevent purchasers being misled, and growers being deprived of advantages to which they were entitled. It might be said that the Merchandise Marks Bill already afforded a sufficient remedy, but he found that was not so; and in respect to the necessity of preventing fraud by spurious marks, further legislation would appear in the case of hops to
 1599
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, he looked upon the principle of the measure as salutary and as tending to give shareholders greater power of controlling the proceedings of directors than was conferred under the existing system of proxies. He presumed that the hon. Gentleman proposed to leave the present law with respect to general proxies untouched, and it would, he thought, be expedient to secure that object, to alter the clauses of the Bill, so that those special proxies which, under its operation, would be introduced for the first time, should be subject to the same conditions as those by which the use of general proxies was now regulated. With that Amendment the Bill might very well, he thought, be accepted by the House.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that if any objection had been raised by the Bank of England with regard to this subject it would have taken the form of an official communication from the Governor to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but no such communication had been made. Begging the House to understand that he was only expressing his individual opinion, and without reference to his connection with the Bank of England, he wished to make a few remarks upon some observations offered by the Mover of the Bill. He appeared to have an idea that the Bank of England were rather anxious to evade the kind of responsibility devolving upon them in consequence of the privileges they en-
 1609
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  observed, that it should not be forgotten what was the real state of things they had to provide for. He explained that the Commission found the Thames Commissioners, from no fault of their own, to be an entirely bankrupt body, quite incapable of keeping up the locks and other works on the Upper Thames. Unless the water were kept up by locks the river would revert to its original state—at times, it would be so dry as to enable people to walk over, at others so flooded that a great deal of injury might be sustained by millowners and others, and therefore it was necessary to devise some scheme to do this work. The Commission were asked to find some means of revising this state of things, and their attention was naturally attracted to the Thames Conservancy, who had funds which might be applied to that purpose. The Conservancy Board were themselves very unwilling to take this extra duty upon themselves, and only agreed to do so in the event of their being asked. Under these circumstances, he thought the best plan was to place the control of the upper waters in the hands of a well-known body, who had well and economically managed the river as far as Staines.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  was sorry at any time to differ from his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Southwark, but he should like to know why hops should not stand on their own merits just like any other article of merchandise. Suppose he went into Mincing Lane to buy tea, did he find that article branded by the Government? No; he was left to judge for himself. And why should there be special legislation in a case of this sort? Why ask the Government to brand hops in any particular way? Why not leave the trade to stand on its own merits? and, if a buyer had not sufficient capacity to understand the trade, let him give place to some one else who had. This was a kind of retrograde legislation, which he could not approve. What was wanted was a good supply of hops. Let a fair chance be given to every county. Let them produce a good article. Let that article stand on its own merits in the market, and there would be no occasion for any brand.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  seconded the Motion, and thanked the hon. and learned Gentleman for the able and lucid manner in which he had introduced the question to the House. All who had heard the hon. and learned Gentleman on that occasion would no doubt join with him (Sir Brook Bridges) in expressing a desire that he would turn his attention to other subjects as well as that which he had handled in so able a manner that day. Living in a district where the best hops were produced, he (Sir Brook Bridges) felt himself fully justified in placing his name on the back of that Bill. He believed that all persons would be anxious to prevent such frauds, and the question was, were they such as to justify exceptional legislation. He was aware that there were those who would say, leave it to the buyers, and the expression  caveat emptor 1591
 SIR WENTWORTH DILKE  had reason to believe that those who were especially interested in the subject were perfectly satisfied with the Bill, with the exception of one point, and that was relating to the number of Commissioners, which they did not consider to be sufficient.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, that after the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he should not proceed further with the Bill.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN , in moving the second reading of this Bill, observed, that although it was not a large and comprehensive measure it was one which to some extent affected the prosperity of the country. The banking interest in Ireland was subject to very improper and unfair restrictions, and this fact supplied one mode of explaining why the resources of Ireland had not been properly developed. It was calculated that in England, with a population of about 20,000,000, the issue of bank notes was about £26,000,000, and in addition there was a large circulation of gold, amounting to at least one sovereign for every head in the kingdom. In Scot-
 1600 s. 1601 d 1602 * 1603
 SIR FRANCIS GOLDSMID  said, that he also did not feel inclined to join in the
 1615
 MR. HUDDLESTON , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, that as a new and inexperienced Member of the House, he almost wished that the measure had fallen under the care of an older Member; but as it interested materially the constituency which he represented, he had felt bound to give his best consideration to the question. He would shortly state to the House the object proposed to be attained by this Bill, in which no new principle was involved. The clauses of the Bill had been drawn up for the purpose of carrying out the intentions of the Legislature, and to adapt the regulations to the exigencies of the present day. The frauds it was sought to prevent were the substitution and sale of a poor quality of hops for those of a superior character, and to prevent the system well known in the trade of false packing, which consisted of inserting, along with hops of a good class, hops of an inferior and unmerchantable quality, as well as foreign substances which could not be described as hops. These practices had continued for a long time, and it had been found almost impossible to repress them. The temptation to resort to them was very great. It arose from the difference in the price which different qualities of hops would fetch in the market. The superior quality, for instance, grown in East Kent, where the soil was favourable to their cultivation, and where great attention was shown in rearing them, and the supply of which was sometimes scanty and varying, fetched £9 or £9 9 s. s. 1585 1586 Geo. Geo. 1587 1588 Geo. 1589 "That any person who shall fraudulently pack, or suffer to be packed, hops of different qualities or value in the same bag or pocket shall be liable to a penalty." flagrante delicto. 1590 Vict.
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, When the statistics relating to the County Franchise moved for by Mr. Banks Stanhope on March 16th, and also those moved for by himself on March 21st, will be presented to the House?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the Medical Officer of the Privy Council was cognizant of the conduct of the illustrious personages in question, whose courage and humanity on that occasion had excited such general admiration. He was also aware of the daring experiments made by M. Girard, to prove the non-infectious nature of cholera. That gentleman had placed upon his tongue the moisture from the brow and the fur from the tongue of a man who had died of cholera without suffering any ill consequences. But, in the first place, such an experiment only proved the insusceptibility to that disease of M. Girard, and by no means proved that the experiment might be tried with equal
 1645
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I have to state, Sir, that the clerks of the works and engineers' clerks do receive at home a modified lodging allowance, and that when abroad they receive the allowance due to their relative rank. The pay and allowances which those officers now receive is found to be sufficient to attract to the service as large a number of persona as are required for the performance of the duties which they have to discharge, and the scheme of re-organization to which my hon. Friend refers does not propose to give any increase of pay to the great body of those officers. We, however, contemplate the employment of some of them as surveyors, at a higher rate of pay.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, in reply, that the proposal on the subject which had been made to the Admiralty on behalf of the widows of Engineers was under consideration. He must, however, guard himself against being supposed to give any pledge that their petition would be granted.
 MR. COWEN  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What are the peculiar circumstances connected with the Treaty of Commerce between this Country and France which disincline Her Majesty's Government to claim from the French Government the same commercial privileges as those which have been accorded to Monaco?
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he wished to ask, Whether the Government propose to bring in separate Bills for the re-distribution of seats for the three Kingdoms; and, if so, whether the pledge given by them to place the Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats in England and Wales on the table of the House before going into Committee on the Franchise Bill applies, also, to the cases of Scotland and Ireland?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As far, Sir, as I can judge, I cannot say that I think such a division as that which the hon. and gallant Gentleman indicates would be necessary with respect to the Reform measures for Scotland and Ireland. The pledge, however, which the Government have given with regard to the English Bill would apply to the subject-matter of their proposals for
 1648
 MR. BRIGHT : I do not know whether I am in order, but I may be allowed to say there is not a word of truth in what the noble Lord has uttered.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  had no intention of making such a charge against the hon. Member.
 LORD ELCHO : I can only say this, that I have tried in vain to get a copy. [Mr. BRIGHT: So have I.] But if the pamphlet has been so popular that only shows the necessity of still greater caution. As regards the Church, the policy of that section is the severance of Church and State; and on questions of taxation—let capitalists as well as others mark this—it is the putting of taxation on realized property and relieving other classes of taxpayers. Well, if that is the programme of the extreme section of the Liberal party, I should like to know whether it is the programme of the large majority which have hitherto followed the leading of Lord Palmerston and Lord Russell in this House. I believe the policy of the Government leads in that direction. My noble Friend (Earl Grosvenor) has raised a standard in order to rally those who feel this is not the policy which will conduce to the eventual prosperity of this country, and that it is subversive of the present state of things. He has raised that standard. By so doing he has laid himself open to much obloquy and abuse; but, if he should succeed, as I conscientiously believe he will, in carrying his Amendment, I am certain of this—a very short time will elapse after his success before those very men who now give a faltering allegiance to the Government will thank him for what he has been doing, and say he has been the means of saving what is so necessary and desirable in this House—the existence of the moderate Liberal party. Therefore, in concluding, I would make an appeal to these Gentlemen, and in doing so I would slightly paraphrase words which I have heard in this House. I would appeal to them not to support a policy which tends to Americanize our institutions, and to
 1680
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Graham) has asked the House whether they regard the hon. Member for Glasgow as a dangerous man. Now, Sir, I do not of course know what the opinion of the House may be on that subject; but, as far as I have been able to judge of the hon. Gentleman, I believe him to be a most amiable man, but I should also regard him as a most dangerous supporter of any measure which I might bring forward. I shall not follow the hon. Gentleman through many of the points in his speech, because in the remarks I am about to address to the House I shall have to touch upon questions cognate to some of those to which he referred; nor shall I, indeed, offer any opinion upon the questions raised by the hon. Gentleman as to the virtue of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the legitimacy of the Bill which his right hon. Friend has introduced. The hon. Gentleman has characterized this Bill as just in principle, moderate in scope, eminently judicious in form, and pregnant with good. It is this opinion I shall venture to dispute, and if the House will hear them, I purpose stating the grounds for the opinions which I entertain. The hon. Gentleman has further said that the Bill will receive the adherence of the great body of the Liberal party, with the exception of that "fraction" which, he says, "drives him mad." Now, I should be very sorry, as one of that fraction, to contribute in any way to reducing the hon. Gentleman to that unhappy mental condition, the more so as I see that the Scotch Members are summoned by the Lord Advocate for to-morrow night to the consideration of some new Lunacy Bill. In deal-
 1661 1662 "I inquired of a gentleman I considered well informed whether Lord Elcho intended to pro-
 1663 1664 Cries of "We are not pledged to, and we do not intend to ask, the support of the country as the advocates of a great measure of Parliamentary Reform.… We are not prepared to go to the country as the advocates of a measure of Parliamentary Reform without reserving to ourselves a discretion to act upon that matter, as upon all others, as the interests of the country may require."—[3  Hansard, "Lord Palmerston had fully redeemed the pledges they made on taking office, and the reason why they had not pressed a Reform Bill upon Parliament Session after Session was the disinclination of that body to deal with the question and the apathy of the country with regard to it. He held that it was not the duty of a Government to propose organic changes in the Constitution without a fair prospect of carrying the matter to
 1665 Leeds Mercury. 1666 per se, 1667 "There were two modes in which Reform might be approached. The one was to consider the right of voting as a personal privilege possessed by every man of sound mind and of years of discretion as an inherent, inalienable right belonging to him as a member of a free country. According to this theory the votes of the whole male adult population form the only basis of legitimate Government. Other political writers and eminent statesmen acknowledge no personal right of voting as inalienable and essential. They consider that the purpose to be attained is good government, the freedom of the people within the State and their security from without, and that the best mode of attaining these ends is the problem to be solved. It seemed to me that these last reasoners were in the right." 1668 "In all countries there is a majority of poor, a minority who, in contradistinction, may be termed rich. Between these two classes, on many questions there is complete opposition of apparent interest. We will suppose the majority to be sufficiently intelligent to be aware that it is not for their advantage to weaken the security of property, and that it would be weakened by any act of arbitrary spoliation. But is there not a considerable danger that they should throw upon the possessors of what is called realized property, and upon the larger incomes an unfair share, or even the whole of the burden of taxation, and, having done so, add to the amount without scruple, expending the proceeds in modes supposed to conduce to the profit and advantage of the labouring classes. Suppose, again, a minority of skilled labourers, a majority of unskilled. The experience of many trade unions, unless they are greatly calumniated, justifies the apprehension that equality of earnings might be imposed as an obligation, and that piece work, payment by the hour, and all practices which enable superior industry or abilities to gain a superior reward, might be put down." 1669 "The noble Lord the Member for Haddington-shire has recently passed some few days of his life in a state of alarm at the prospects of the country, lie would not in the least tremble to meet a French invasion, but the idea of an invasion of his own fellow-citizens, desirous of obtaining the
 1670 1671 1672 "The extension of the borough franchise in England and Wales to 'every male person of full age and not subject to any legal incapacity' who shall occupy, as owner or tenant in part or whole, any premises within the boroughs which are rated for the relief of the poor." "But while we give this recommendation [to support the Bill] we protest emphatically, for the reasons already assigned, against this Bill, should it become law, being regarded as a settlement of
 1673 1674 Cries of 1675 "But if I profess all this impolitic stubbornness, I may chance never to be elected to Parliament. It is certainly not very pleasing to be put out of the public service. But I wish to be a Member of Parliament to have my share of doing good and resisting evil. It would, therefore, be absurd to renounce my objects in order to retain my seat. I deceive myself, indeed, most grossly if I had not much rather pass the remainder of my life hidden in the recesses of the deepest obscurity, feeding my mind even with the visions and imaginations of such things, than to be placed on the most splendid Throne of the universe, tantalized with a denial of the practice of all which can make the greatest situation any other than the greatest curse." 1676 1677 "I recognize no greater danger to free institutions than that blind tyranny which the habitual fanaticism of partisanship, whether of a faction or a small segment, pretends to exercise in the name of Liberal ideas. Are you a staunch advocate for constitutional Government and political guarantees? Do you wish to live and act in co-operation with the party which hoists this standard? Renounce at once your judgment, and independence. In that party you will find on all questions and under all circumstances opinions ready formed and resolutions settled beforehand, which assume the right of your entire control. Self-evident facts are in open contradiction to these opinions; you are forbidden to see them. Powerful obstacles oppose these resolutions; you are not allowed to think of them. Equity and prudence suggest circumspection; you must east it aside. You are in the presence of superstitious Credo and a popular passion. Do not argue; you would no longer be a Liberal. Do not oppose; you would be looked upon as a mutineer. Obey, advance, no matter at what pace you are urged or in what road. If you cease to be a slave, you instantly become a deserter. My clear judgment and natural pride revolted invincibly against such a yoke." 1678 "The Liberal party has consisted over since the abrogation of the Corn Laws of a majority who make a loud profession and it minority who hold a great principle, and the profession is made to cover the principle, not for the purpose of nourishing, but of destroying it. Let. Lord John Russell remain where he is to carry his little Oaths Bill and to resist the abolition of church rates. Let Lord Palmerston move under his false colours, until his supporters are disgusted with his hollow pretentions. They have still to carry a Reform Bill. That done, separation from Church and State will then be ready as a basis for the party of progress, and once more we shall have earnest politicians, ennobling warfare, and in the end, we doubt not, glorious victories." The Nonconformist 1679
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  accepted the disclaimer of his right hon. Friend, and would at once proceed to address himself to the question before the House. He had listened to this debate with great interest; he had heard able speeches on the other side which threw more or less light upon the question—he might particularly refer to the able and logical speech—though, as he would endeavour to show, questionable in its premises—of the hon. Member for Westminster; but there was one quarter from which he looked for light and found only dense darkness—the Treasury Bench. With the exception of what fell from the hon. Member for Bradford, who was a practical man and an employer of labour, and therefore made a practical speech, he had heard nothing but angry declamation, strong invective, and sentimental appeals. He must correct himself, however—he had heard from one Member of the Government (Mr. Layard) that he regarded the hon. Member for Birmingham as "Snug, the joiner." Now, in the fashionable language of the day, "joiner" was called "cabinetmaker," and, perhaps, the hon. Gentleman intended delicately to convey the idea that the Member for Birmingham was a maker of Cabinets. Whether the Under Secretary thought that the rest of the worshipful company, Flute, Quince, Snout, and Bottom were also present in the Cabinet he could not tell; but he thought that the country would perhaps be of the opinion of the wise King of Athens in the  Midsummer Night's Dream, 1685 1686 1687 élite 1688 Times, Spectator, Reynolds, 1689 "All trust in Constitutions is grounded on the assurance they may afford, not that the depositaries of power will not, but that they cannot, misemploy it. Democracy is not literally the best form of government unless this weak side of it can be strengthened, unless it can he so organized that no class, not even the most numerous"— "Shall be able to reduce all but itself to political insignificance, and direct the course of legislation and administration by its exclusive class interests." 1690 1691 1692 1693 bonâ fide 1694 1695 émeute 1696 1697 primâ facie ex parte primâ facie 1698 1699 1700
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that he should studiously refrain from importing any personalities into the discussion, although there was no one who would have more—not excuse, but palliation—for doing so, as he was one of the two Members to whom his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in his speech at Liverpool—it might have been unintentionally—had imputed that he regarded the working classes as an invading army. [The Chancellor of the Exchequer made a gesture of dissent.] The charge of the right hon. Gentleman was made in such a manner as to include himself in the natural and literal interpretation of the words.
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, it was well known that, by the 17th Article of the Treaty of Vienna, this country, in conjunction with Austria, France, and Russia, had guaranteed to Prussia that part of Saxony to which the question of his hon. Friend referred. In the event of war breaking out, it might be the duty of Her Majesty's Government to consult the Governments of the three Powers with whom they were united in the guarantee, with the view of ascertaining what course they proposed to take in the matter. He could not inform the hon. Baronet what the result might be of that consultation. There was not, he might add, a word of truth in the statement made in the papers of that day in reference to the despatch to which his hon. Friend had alluded.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS , in reply, said, he could not say at what time those Returns would be made. They had to be made from 600 unions, and only 164 had, as yet, been received. The time required was as long as that which was taken to make the Government Returns with respect to the counties, which was from the latter end of November till the end of January. The clerks of the unions were not bound to make these Returns, and unless there was some remuneration given for the labour occasioned, it was not very certain when they would be laid on the table; but he knew of no unnecessary delay that had taken place.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that towards the end of last Session he had introduced a Bill for the amendment of the Poor Law in several respects, and among other provisions in the Bill were clauses affecting the religious rights of the inmates of workhouses. That Bill was withdrawn owing to the lateness of the Session, but it was his intention to reintroduce it containing clauses having the effect of those in the former Bill. Due notice of its introduction would be
 1644
 MR. DOULTON  said, he had found it somewhat difficult to bring himself to believe that his hon. Friend and Colleague (Mr. T. Hughes) had been speaking about the Reform Bill:—so far as he could see, the remarks of his hon. Friend had nothing whatever to do with what he conceived to be the main principle involved in this debate, and contained in the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for Chester. He was glad that his hon. Colleague had not adopted the course pursued by preceding speakers throughout the debate, and especially by the hon. Gentleman the Member for Glasgow (Mr. Graham), by starting with the assumption that those who did not feel it their duty to support the Government by voting for the second reading of the Bill must necessarily be entirely opposed to all Reform. ["Hear!"] He would remind those who cheered this sentiment evening after evening that those to whom it was applied could afford to hear the insinuation, coming as it did from Gentlemen whose virgin enthusiasm for Reform had never yet borne the test either of experience or sacrifice. For himself he utterly denied the insinuation, and he should feel inclined to adopt in reference to those who uttered it the quotation so
 1711 "These lies are like the father that begot them—Gross as a mountain, open, palpable." 1712 1713 1714 1715 "Repudiate without mercy any Bill that any Government whatever may introduce, whatever its seeming concessions may be, if it does not redistribute the seats that are obtained from the extinction of small boroughs amongst the large towns. The question of re-distribution is the soul of the question of Reform, and unless you watch that you will be deceived." 1716
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY : The right hon. Gentleman who has just concluded his animated and eloquent speech has shown that he is a man of very sanguine temperament. He believes that the Bill which he has been enforcing on our attention is one that will become law. The right hon. Gentleman said also that when the Bill was introduced he was confident it would not be opposed on the second reading. I think his prediction as to the final result in this case will be found very much in the same category as his confidence in respect to no opposition at the present stage. But the right hon. Gentleman who expected that this Bill would be received without opposition said my right hon. Friend in a manifesto which he sent forth to the country last year announced his intention of standing by the £10 franchise. Therefore, how are the two things reconcilable? How could the right hon. Gentleman suppose that a Bill lowering the franchise to the extent which that of the Government does would receive the cordial support of the whole House, when he knew my right hon. Friend had issued a manifesto in which he said that our support would not be given to such a proposition? The right hon. Gentleman has, no doubt unintentionally, misrepresented in
 1730 1731 1732 1733 1734 1735 1736 1737 "A man who does not care whether he votes is not likely to care which way he votes, and he who is in that state of mind has no moral right to vote at all," 1738 1739 1740 "These, therefore, were the reasons upon which I determined, not without advice and concurrence, to proceed with a Resolution. I looked to my old Friend Sir James Graham, who had been united with me in preparing the Bill of 1831. I consulted Lord Palmerston, to whom that respect was due, and whose opinion is of the utmost value. I consulted Mr. Sidney Herbert, who wished to see a good Reform Bill, and at the same time did not like to appear in opposition to the Government upon other than fair and reasonable grounds. I consulted Mr. Bright, a politician of another class, whose opinions in many respects differed from mine, but who is as hearty and sincere a Reformer, and who agreed with me as to the defects of Lord Derby's Bill, and as to the manner in which it ought to be rejected—treated I would rather say, because if the Government had accepted the spirit of the Resolution, the Bill need not finally have been rejected. I thought it right in my position to get as much concurrence of opinion as possible. I have been charged with combination and intrigue, and my conduct has been characterized by other hard names; but I think concert among men for a great public object, having nothing in view but what is for the public good, is honourable to all those who can concur in such agreement." "It was not difficult to frame a measure which would have been supported by a great majority of the present House of Commons, and which would not have been the subject of differences when it went into Committee. That would have insured the passing of a Reform Bill in the present year; and mind, when you say a 'Reform Bill,' I am not speaking in the sense of many Members of the House of Commons, who said, 'The essential thing is to pass a Bill,' and who went no further. Those Gentlemen said, 'Let us pass a Bill,' without inquiring whether it should be a good Bill or a bad Bill—a Bill that would last twenty years, or five years, or only one year. I think that was a most irrational proposition. What I wish is to see a Bill upon which the people of this country can rest." 1741 1742 "If the suffrage is extended on the principles hitherto received, access to the House will be rendered more difficult than ever to intelligence and independence, and Members will more and more become the delegates of petty local interests, and of temporary popular feeling; but under Mr. Hare's plan, every opinion would be represented." "The little interest taken even by sincere Reformers in the approaching (1860) Reform Bill is a matter of general remark, while many Liberals, in addition to the whole body of Conservatives, regard it with more or less alarm. Why is then this listless indifference chequered with dread? Not surely because it is supposed our representative system cannot be improved. Its serious defects are manifest to the most careless observer, but Reform is little cared for by the Re-
 1743 "I think it is a good Bill in itself, and is calculated to do so much good that I am prepared to accept it as it stands, and leave the question of the re-distribution of seats to be dealt with by a future Parliament." "In a good half measure of Reform"—I suppose this would be considered such a measure—"there are at least two essential requisites. In the first place, it should be aimed at the really worst features of the existing system. Secondly, it should be conceived with an eye to the future changes which may be expected hereafter. The first condition will be in a considerable degree fulfilled by any measure which clears away the small constituencies. The most peccant element in the present state of the representation is not the small number of electors taken in the aggregate." 1744 1745 1746 "Where a nation modifies the electoral qualification, it may easily he foreseen that sooner or later that qualification will he entirely abolished, There is no more invariable rule in the history of society." "The country, once on the incline of gradual extension of the suffrage, will soon have descended that incline to the end—that is to say, to universal suffrage. That is what those who hold to the past thoroughly understand, and what alarms them. It is certain that universal suffrage in England would displace so much more surely and earnestly the present power, as it would introduce into the political arena a class which, independently of the strength resulting from numbers, would bring to it that of a ready-made organization. The trades unions have given the working class such habits of discipline that it could in given circumstances move as one man, and one may conceive that the partisans of things as they are grow pale at the notion of an election conducted like a strike." 1747 1748 vice versâ; 1749 "To hear you from your palace yard by might, And put your noble person in a fright; This, since you take it ill, I must repent, The' Heaven can witness with no bad intent, I practised it to make you taste your cheer, With double pleasure, first prepared by fear."
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he rose to ask, Why the Civil Officers of the Royal Engineers' Department are denied the advantages of Lodging and Servants' Allowances granted to other Civil Officers of the War Department of similar
 1646
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If it has been proposed or is intended to carry the Metropolitan District Railway along the whole or any part of the Thames Embankment between Westminster and Blackfriars Bridges, in an open cutting instead of a tunnel or covered way underground?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, by the Metropolitan District Railway Act a large portion of the railway between Westminster and Blackfriars Bridges is required to be constructed through a tunnel. According to Mr. Fowler, the engineer of the line, out of the whole length—one mile and a quarter—only about one-eighth of a mile can be made in open cutting. The Board of Trade are not aware of any proposal having been made since the passing of that Act to obtain authority for the company to alter its provisions regarding this portion of railway.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that there were no circumstances connected with the Treaty of Commerce between this country and France which disinclined Her Majesty's Government to claim from the French Government the same commercial privileges which had been granted to Monaco. But it had been thought by Her Majesty's Government that to make any formal representation such as that to which the hon. Gentleman referred would be an extreme assertion of our rights, and as the Question had little practical importance, Her Majesty's Government had not considered it expedient to make such a representation.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, I cannot take exception to the vote which the hon. Member for Lambeth (Mr. Doulton) is about to give on the second reading of this Bill, If he could be sure there was to be a Re-distribution Bill laid on the table, he would have no objection to vote for the second reading of this Bill; but having no confidence whatever in the statements of the head of the Administration, and not believing that my noble Friend honourably intends to fulfil the promise he has made, of course the hon. Member for Lambeth is right with the views he entertains. But I am surprised with the difficulties the hon. Member now feels as to fragmentary legislation. If he thinks no Bill for the extension of the franchise, unaccompanied by protection to the voter—by which I suppose he meant the ballot—and unaccompanied by a great re-distribution of seats is worth acceptance by this House, I am surprised that the hon. Member voted last year for the Bill of the hon. Member for Leeds—which certainly deserved the title—if any measure ever did—of a fragmentary part of Reform. I was certainly one of those who believed it possible that when this measure was proposed by the Government it might pass the second reading without a division. I felt a conviction, after all that has passed on the question of Reform, that there does not exist that sort of mortal fear of the extension of popular rights which existed in 1832, when the great Reform Act was passed. I was well aware, from my own personal knowledge, that many of the Conservative party entertained Liberal views with regard to the extension of the franchise. I felt confident that the Conservatives of 1866 were not the same as the Tories of 1832; and I also had a strong impression that if ever there was a measure which would command the general support of the whole Liberal party it was a moderate extension of the borough and county franchises when proposed by the Government, and accompanied by a repeal of the ratepaying clauses. Well, Sir, that measure has been for years a sort of fundamental principle with, I believe, the great bulk of the Liberal Members, and I had a certain conviction that when a measure of this kind was proposed by the Government it would meet with the general acceptance of that party. But, Sir, I have been deceived. I was too
 1717 sine, quâ non 1718 "The attacks upon the State, never conducted with so much energy, have nevertheless been more prolonged, and it was only a few nights ago when the House of Commons, impatient of protracted mystification, reflected the candour of the community, and declared by a vast majority that the franchise in boroughs should not be lowered, and that the principle on which Lord Derby wished to extend it was the just one." 1719 Cheers, Counter-cheers, laughter. 1720 "We have never, in any of the arrangements which we shall propose to Parliament to adopt, considered for a moment whether they would increase or whether they would diminish the constituent body. Our sole object has been to confer the franchise on all of those to whom we thought that privilege might be safely intrusted."—[3  Hansard, "It is said why should a man who lives in a £10 house be more fitted for the suffrage than a man who lives in a £9 house? That appears to me to be no argument; it is a mere sophism and cavil. If it be an argument it is an argument against all tests and not in favour of a £9 qualification; but the £10 qualification was intended
 1721 Hansard, 1722 1723 1724 1725 1726 1727 1728 Laughter. Renewed laughter. Ironical cheers 1729
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  said, he rose to give the best support in his power to the Government on this Franchise Bill. Before proceeding to explain his reasons for giving them that support—which he tendered very heartily—he was sure he should not say an unpleasant thing to the House when he stated that it was not his intention to quote the opinions of any hon. Members and to show that they had in any way changed them on the great subject of Parliamentary Reform. He thought that in the times in which we lived—times in which the faith of men, whether religious, political, or social, was being winnowed in a manner which was evidence of a very remarkable crisis in the world's history—it was often not a proof of strength, but of weakness, for a man to hold on to the same opinions, or, as they might be called, prejudices; and to call it consistency. It was desirable that a man in early life should have fixed principles and should adhere to them; but to hold on to mere opinions on such subjects as Reform was, he repeated, frequently an indication of weakness. The strong man knew that he needed not to care about preserving one opinion, because he was aware that he had principles in his mind to go to from which he could get other opinions as good or better; but the weak man, if he lost one set of opinions, did not know, having no principle in his mind, where to go for another set. He gave his support to the Bill exactly and precisely for the same reasons that induced the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire to oppose it. The noble Lord opposed the Bill because it was merely a Franchise Bill, and the right hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) asked what was the meaning of the Government in bringing in the Bill at all? He (Mr. T. Hughes) apprehended the meaning of it was precisely this—that the advanced or extreme Liberal party, as it was called, of whom he was a humble member, had at last found a Government who said, "The really important question, the one import-
 1701 1702 1703 1704 1705 s. s. s. d. s. 1706 s. Self Help, 1707 1708 1709 1710
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Why the widows of engineers in the Royal Navy are not entitled to pensions equally with the widows of Assistant Surgeons, considering that the Engineers do not enter the service as boys and receive an education like officers of the same rank, including Second Masters and Assistant Paymasters?
 MR. GRAHAM  said: I feel that there is no slight presumption in one so little entitled to attention as myself occupying the time of the House when there are doubtless many hon. Members of weight and authority whom it desires to hear on this great question; nor is the responsibility a light one of speaking and voting upon it. But I have observed upon so many occasions, and I have myself indeed experienced the great indulgence which it is the habit of the House to extend to those who have recently been admitted to its deliberations, that I am emboldened to do so, while I feel that I should be untrue to my convictions and unfaithful to my duty did I not raise my voice and record my vote on behalf of the measure of my hon. Friend. Although susceptible of improvement, by the omission of provisions for disenfranchising Government  employés, 1649 1650 feux de joie 1651 "I agree that unfitness ought to prevent the exercise of the suffrage, but it by no means follows that because there is fitness there should be right." "In proposing to confer the franchise on those who do not possess it we ought to look to their fitness." "But it appears to me that founding a recommendation to extend the suffrage merely on considerations of numbers is an unsafe and shallow proceeding." 1652 "I say that if, instead of 257,000, there had been 557,000 men who, in the opinion of the House, are fit for the suffrage, the suffrage ought to be given them." "As soon after the English Bill has been read a second time as the pressure of public business will admit, it is our intention to introduce a Scotch Reform Bill. At present we contemplate introducing it before Easter, and I think that the House will agree with me that it will be much more convenient that a general statement of its provisions should then be made than that on the present occasion we should give any partial information which might lead to very great misconceptions."—[3  Hansard, 1653 "Multiplication is vexation," "Division is as bad," "The rule of three perplexes me," "And fractions drive me mad." 1654 1655 Primâ facie, 1656 primâ facie 1657 1658 fata morgana 1659 1660
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the British Government has guaranteed to Prussia the portion of Saxony united to her dominions by the Treaty of Vienna; and whether, in case Prussia should now engage in war, that guarantee would be upheld? He should also like to know whether there is any truth in the report contained in the papers of that morning, as to a Despatch which was said to be a reply to one addressed to the Court of Vienna by Earl Russell on the German Question?
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he rose to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether the attention of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council has been directed to a statement in  The Morning Star
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, Whether it is his intention, and, if so, when, to introduce a Bill into Parliament, founded on the recommendations of the Select Committee on Poor Relief, in reference to the religious rights of inmates of workhouses; and further, if such be his intention, to ask that he will give sufficient notice of the same for Boards of Guardians, Unions, and Parishes to have the opportunity of expressing their opinions upon such an important measure?
 SIR WILLIAM HUTT  said, he did not complain of the acrimonious manner in which the noble Lord had stepped out of his way to attack him, nor of the lecture which the noble Lord, conscious of his own superior patriotism and virtue, had thought proper to read him on the authority of Mr. Burke. On the contrary, he could assure the noble Lord that he felt towards him nothing but thankfulness, because he had given him (Sir William Hutt) an opportunity of defending himself in the presence of the House from those injurious criticisms and gross misrepresentations to which he had been exposed. The noble Lord had indulged in all the license of what he called fanatical partizanship, and had assailed him in a spirit that he ought to be ashamed of. But he turned from him to the right hon. and gallant General (General Peel) who had also attacked him, though with better taste and feeling, and would give an explanation to the right hon. and gallant Member which he disdained to offer to the noble Lord. The right hon. and gallant General (General Peel) had on a former evening described him as taking up a hostile position in the rear of the Government. He could assure the right hon. and gallant General that he had never made a more incorrect statement. The position which he (Sir William Hutt) had taken up was in no sense whatever a hostile position; and he made that statement confidently in the presence of Members of the Government, the leader of which in that House could contradict him if he was stating what was erroneous. He appealed to his right hon. Friend whether he ever understood his position as a hostile one, as one of attack or obstruction? He had not dealt, to use the military phraseology of the right lion, and gallant Member, either with blank or with ball cartridge; his only object was to reconcile the Franchise Bill with the feelings of those who were anxious that a complete scheme of Parliamentary Reform should, be brought forward. That was the only object of the
 1681 1682 1683 1684
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  wished, as a Member of that House, to ask the Speaker, Whether he had not a right to put a question upon a matter affecting the privilege of the Members. In the course of the debate during the last two or three days Gentlemen had come in the House at about twenty minutes to four o'clock, and, after putting tickets in the backs of the seats, they had placed their hats in the seats they wished to occupy for the remainder of the evening. During their absence an Officer of the House, with great courtesy he would say, had taken those hats away, and left their owners to seek for them in the lobby. He wished to ask, whether this course had been pursued in consequence of the orders of the Speaker, and whether it was right that Members of the House of Commons should be treated in that way?
 MR. LOCKE KING  likewise complained of the inconvenience to which he had been subjected by the infringement of this rule of the House.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the practice had hitherto been that chaplains in the army should draw their pay in the same manner as staff officers did, when their pay was three months in arrear. In February this year it was arranged that chaplains in the army should, if they thought proper, receive their pay when one month was in arrear. It had always been the system that staff officers should draw their pay in arrear instead of in advance, and there did not seem to him to be any grievance in that respect. The only objection to remove the ground of complaint was that to do so it would be necessary to provide in some one year a larger sum of money.
 LORD BURGHLEY  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council, By whose authority the German Ship  Hertha, 1770 Hertha, Hertha;
 MR. H. A. BRUCE : Sir, the  Hertha Hertha Hertha 1771 Hertha.
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bath, When the purchase is likely to be completed by the Metropolitan Board of Works of the 250 acres of land they were empowered to buy and appropriate for Finsbury Park by the Act of 1857; and whether they have agreed to sell, for building purposes, twenty acres out of the 120 acres now possessed by them, contrary to the intention of the Act referred to?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that it was the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill for amending the Public Health Acts very shortly; but it would not deal with the pollution of rivers. The Commissioners only presented their Report on the Thames River a few days ago. The more difficult inquiry into the waters of the
 1772
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could assure the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire that every effort would be made by the Government to insure the Returns being laid upon the table of the House within a reasonable time The right hon. Gentleman was mistaken in his assumption that the answer of his right hon. Friend contained anything like a pledge that the progress of the Bill would in any way depend upon the time when the Returns were made. But he hoped that no such difficulty would arise and that a complete Return, or a Return as nearly complete as circumstances would permit, would be made. He also wished to demur to the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Northamptonshire, as one likely to lead to dangerous consequences if it were supposed that whenever the House had or dered a Return to be made on the Motion of a private Member it must be considered pledged to remunerate those engaged in making such Returns. In his opinion each particular ease must stand upon its own merits, and no general rule should be adopted in the matter. It had been the practice for the House to order from public officers of many classes Returns which were not subjects of special remuneration, and which were yet not subjects of statutory obligation. That might be considered a customary right exercised in the public interests, and he did not think that they should be justified in altogether changing the custom, as otherwise no Return could be ordered on the Motion of a private Member until its cost had been estimated. The right hon. Gentleman concluded by withdrawing his Motion for going into Committee of Supply.
 HON. F. LEVESON GOWER  said, he did not often trouble the House, and would not detain them long on the present occasion, but having, ever since he had enjoyed the honour of a seat in that House, always professed himself out of doors in favour of an extension of the franchise, brought about by the reduction of the electoral qualification, and having never spoken upon the subject in that House, he was unwilling to let this discussion close without taking some part in it. Nothing had so impressed him throughout it as the inadequate manner in which the Amendment of his noble Friend (Earl Grosvenor) represented the views of those who supported it; and in fact the measure of the Government had formed the chief subject of the discussion, Hon. Members in succession had denounced the measure in the strongest terms, it had been pointed out as the first step in the down-
 1779 "Does not even express disapproval of the provisions of this Bill, if the opportunity had been given of dealing with the question as a whole." seriatim 1780 1781 1782 1783 1784
 MR. GREGORY  said, that in spite of the resolute and dashing speech of his right hon. Friend the President of the Board of Trade delivered last night, and in spite of the extremely sensible and thoughtful speech to which hon. Members had just listened, he was very much afraid the verdict of the country would be that the battle was going sorely against the Government. Many admirable and brilliant speeches had been made during the debate; but to the two speeches delivered on the other side of the House, one by the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley), and the other by the hon. Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) he contended that no answer had yet been given. The reason probably was that no answer could be given to them. Their heavy fire had so completely silenced the fire of their antagonists, that the House had heard nothing since but wild, erratic discharges against everybody and everything except the Amendment that was before them. Therefore he might, perhaps, be allowed to ask hon. Gentlemen opposite, whether it was altogether judicious in them to prevent hon. Gentlemen on the Ministerial side of the House from discharging their firearms—if he might be permitted to say so without offence—by such a constant volley of after-dinner grape shot as that with which they had saluted his hon. Friend the Member for Southwark (Mr. Layard). That hon. Gentleman said that
 1785 1786 1787 1788 élite 1789 1790 1791 élite 1792 "In democracies statesmen are poor and have their fortunes to make. The consequence is, that in aristocratic states the rulers are rarely accessible to corruption, and have very little craving for money, while the reverse is the case with democratic nations." New York Times, "The open purchase of votes has been a remarkable feature of the day. The voters, when led up to the ballot-box, would with one hand drop the ticket, and with the other receive the bribe. The negro vote rated high, some coloured brethren receiving $50 each. Individuals of comparative wealth declined to vote unless paid to do so. Voters publicly put themselves up for purchase. Bids would commence at $10 and run up to $50. Great good humour and merriment prevailed all day. The announcement of Padel-ford's unsuccessful attempt to bribe the town-clerk of Cranstone undoubtedly lost him a large vote." "In other towns wholesale bribery was even more open and outrageous. … Good order has been maintained throughout. Everybody drinks, but everybody appears to be used to it." 1793 New York Times, New York Times "Most of the American people are stolidly indifferent to the proofs of corruption on the part of their representatives. It seems to be taken for granted; and to whatever extent it may be carried, it excites no astonishment and arouses no special indignation." 1794 résumé s. d. 1795 1796 "In love, if love be love, and love be ours, Faith and unfaith can ne'er be equal powers; Unfaith in aught is want of faith in all." Tom Jones, 1797 "When I speak of religion, I speak of the Christian religion; and when I speak of the Christian religion, I speak of the Protestant religion; and when I speak of the Protestant religion, I speak of the religion of the Church of England; and when I speak of the Church of England religion, I speak of that branch of the Church of England to which I myself belong, and the opinions of which I am determined to enforce," Rab and his Friends. 1798 1799 toto cœlo, 1800 1801 1802 pari passu. 1803
 THE SOLICITOR-GENERAL FOR SCOTLAND (Mr. YOUNG)  entreated the indulgence of the House while he stated, with as much brevity as he could command, the opinions he humbly entertained with respect to the measure before them, and while he attempted to give the answer which occurred to him to some of the objections urged against it. He would not be understood as wishing to imply that the Bill under discussion was not of sufficient magnitude to merit, and indeed demand, their earnest and anxious consideration; or that the principles which it involved, and the arguments by which it was supported, ought not to be subjected to the closest examination and the sharpest criticism. Yet he could not help thinking, that those who had spoken against the measure, looking to the asperity of their hostility to it, had hardly given enough weight to the moderation of its provisions. The scope and tenour of the Bill might be stated in a single sentence: It proposed to reduce the occupation franchise in boroughs to £7 and in counties to £14; and that it offended the political opinions of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that was the extent of its offending. Regarding it from a Conservative point of view, and with reference to the mere extent of the changes it proposed, it contrasted favourably in respect to the county franchise with the measure intro-
 1804 1805 1806 1807 1808 1809 1810 1811 1812 1813 1814 1815 "I think the greatest insult that can be offered to the working classes is offered by those who write and speak to them as if they were a class of people who ignored argument and did not appreciate moderation; as if they were persons to be driven and incited by words of the kind I have read."
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I am sorry, Sir, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who last spoke has left the House, because I should have been glad to express in his presence the sense which I sincerely entertain of the obligation under which he has laid us all by the speech to which we have just listened. It was impossible to listen to that speech without a feeling of congratulation that the subject was in his hands. He has treated it in a manner worthy of its importance, and we have listened to a speech that
 1816 1817 1818 1819 1820 1821 1822 1823 1824 1825 1826 1827 1828 1829 1830 Sat cito si sat bene.
 Mr. COLERIDGE : I, Sir, am very unwilling to intrude into this great debate, and I think I can undertake to promise the House that I will not intrude for very long. But I am desirous to say a few words to explain how it is that some of us Liberal Members, sitting upon these benches, at whose heads the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Hertfordshire (Sir Bulwer-Lytton) was kind enough not to discharge the book which lay before him on the table, although we may feel strongly the force of many of the objections made to the course taken by the Government; and although, whatever we may feel about individual Members of the Government, we are, perhaps, not very passionately enamoured either of the Government itself or of the Bill which it has proposed, are yet determined to support the Bill and steadfastly to maintain the cause of the Government against the Amendment moved by the noble Earl (Earl Grosvenor). And it is the more important that we should do this, since the somewhat remarkable address made to this House last night by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire (Lord Elcho). As far as the noble Lord was content in defending himself against accusations which, as far as I know anything about those with whom I am in the habit of acting, have been made against him neither in this House nor out of this House, he was perfectly entitled, if he thought those accusations had really been made, to defend himself against them. And it is no business of mine to interfere for a single moment with the serene moral
 1831 1832 1833 bonâ fide, 1834 Opposition Cheers. 1835 1836 1837 1838 "Burleigh-house by Stamford town," Cries of 1839 1840 1841 1842
 MR. HORSMAN : I have listened, in common with every Member of this House, to the speech we have just heard from the hon. and learned Gentleman, with attention, with interest, and with admiration. There has been throughout that speech an earnestness of tone and a clearness of reasoning, combined with a frankness and generosity of spirit, which must constrain even those who do not agree with the opinions of the hon. and learned Gentleman to acknowledge the ability and force with which he has expressed himself; but, at the same time, I must express my disappointment to perceive throughout the speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman a condensation merely of the uniform argument which has marked the addresses of the supporters of the Government measure from the first day of the discussion until now. If, it is reiterated, you are not a supporter of the Government Bill, you are not a true Reformer. Now I protest against the particular Bill of any Government being put forward as a test of a man's sincerity on Reform. I thought we were living in an age and under an administration which was opposed to all arbitrary and intolerant tests; and I object to any Minister taking a Bill out of his box, and saying, "Here is my standard of liberality; every man who conforms to it I embrace as a brother and true believer, and every man who rejects it I excommunicate as a
 1843 1844 s. 1845 1846 Spectator "There are indications in various parts of the country that the Russell declaration will bring forth good fruit. The council of the Political Union of Birmingham, we understand,
 1847 1848 1849 1850 1851 "What would you say to the architect who proposed to build for you a single room of a house without letting you see the plan or estimate for the whole building? Your reply would of course be, 'But I must see both the plan and the estimate before you proceed.' And what would you think if the architect then turned round on you and said, 'You can't be sincere; you don't intend to build at all?" "Why should you deal with Reform on a different principle from that on which you deal with finance? Why should you take a part of a scheme, and ask any one to agree to that without seeing the whole?" 1852 "These are attempts to commit the House to conclusions while the House has not in its possession the means of judgment; and their only effect can be to fetter the future action of the House, and create embarrassment and disappointment among those who may have fair claims on the public exchequer." 1853 "Another point which had been very strongly urged was this—that it might be very well to
 1854 "When the hon. Member for the West Riding brought forward a motion consistent with all the views which he had entertained and professed in his public life, was he to be deterred from asking the support of his friends because Members of the Conservative party, forsooth, would support it?" "He had been told that there had been a meeting of the Liberal party lately at the residence of the noble Lord. He had read the report in the public newspapers; for it seemed now to be the fashion to publish in the journals reports of these private political meetings. That meeting was remarkable more for the absence of certain distinguished men than for the presence of those who attended it. He read over the names, and he must say that it was the first time he ever recollected a meeting of the Liberal party being held without the name of Lord John Russell appearing among those who attended it. There were other distinguished names which were not to be found in the list of those present at that meeting. He should like to know what the noble Lord at the head of the Government said to his hon. Friend who attended the meeting? What pledges were given, what inducements were held out? When sufficient inducements were held out on such occasions, many a Member, for the purpose of saving a Ministry in danger, gave a vote that was not exactly according to his convictions. He felt at liberty to make these statements, for he could assure the House that the pressure—the disagreeable pressure—that was put upon hon. Gentlemen to induce them to change their votes upon this important question was of a character that could only be equalled by the pressure put upon voters at a small provincial contested election, in order to compel them to vote in this or that direction. Now, hon. Gentlemen were at liberty, with a due regard to the public interests, and without being in the least afraid of the deluge, coming upon them, if the Government should
 1855 "He was sorry to hear the cry which was always raised on occasions similar to this, that there had been a conspiracy. He would only say that he never came to a vote with more personal pain, or after more anxious and earnest inquiry; and he never gave a vote in that House with a clearer conscience. If the time had to come again, and it was to be the last vote which he was to give in that House, he would give it with the utmost cordiality." 1856 1857 1858 1859 1860
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : We have arrived so nearly at the hour of midnight, that I do not think we ought to press any one who wishes to address the House to speak tonight. [ Cries of A Cry of
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, I am willing to use any influence I may be presumed to possess towards the regulation of a protracted debate like this upon an important subject. I have always sincerely desired to keep in view two objects: the one was, to secure, as far as I could for both sides of the House, a fair and free discussion; and the other was, when that discussion was obtained, to facilitate the progress of public business, even if I disapproved of the measures of the Government. Now, there is no doubt that the discussion upon the Amendment of the noble Lord has been protracted for a considerable period; but I am sure that the Chancellor of the Exchequer will admit that the subject is one of vast importance; and though not wishing to say anything the least discourteous to the right hon. Gentleman, I must remind him that there is in this debate a peculiarity which has given it this protracted character, and may probably be extended beyond that period which was at first anticipated. The House will recollect, and it is but fair to the
 1861
 MR. CRAUFURD  called attention to that provision in the Bill which would prevent the members of the Audit Board sitting in that House. Those gentlemen were the Officers of the House of Commons, as against the Government of the day, and it would be most useful to have them in the House, in order to assist the House in exercising the necessary control over the Executive.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  could not agree with the hon. Gentleman that it was desirable that the Members of the Audit Board should have seats in the House of Commons. It would be an innovation on our present law, and not useful one. He was always under the impression that it was through an oversight that the Controller of the Exchequer was not excluded from the House of Lords. The sitting of those gentlemen in the Mouse would be only attended with confusion. It would be much the same in principle as if the permanent Under Secretary to the Treasury were admitted to a seat in the House; but the proposal of his hon. Friend was still more objectionable, because the members of the Audit Board had to proceed with judicial impartiality and entire independence, and nothing could be more detrimental to that character than to place those gentlemen in a position where a conscientious expression of their views might bring them into collision with the Government of the day or with partizans or opponents on either side.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that irrespective of the question whether the members of the Board ought to be admitted
 1863
 MR. AYRTON  hoped that the Government would not sanction the admission of the Officer belonging to this Department into the House.
 MR. HENLEY  believed that the result of the Controller having a seat in the House would be an injury to the public business. The only way to render that Officer perfectly useless would be to give him a seat.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the power of the Audit Office had greatly increased of late years. He quite concurred in the opinion expressed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxfordshire that the object for which the Controller was appointed would be entirely frustrated by his having a seat in Parliament. He therefore proposed the insertion of words which would provide against such a contingency.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE , as a Member of the Committee, had no objection to the insertion of the words proposed, although the question was not specifically brought under the notice of the Committee.
 MR. CRAUFURD  urged that pensions should be payable after shorter periods of service.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was impracticable to make arrangements for paying pensions on retirement after five years' or one year's service; that if the pensions were in proportion to short periods of service they would be ridiculously small, and that there might be circumstances under which such pensions would offer a dangerous inducement to persons to pass through the office merely for the sake of the pensions.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, that as all the clerks were to be paid by that House, it was desirable that some Member of the Government who had a seat in the House should be made responsible for the appointment.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that if his Amendment were agreed to the Treasury would still have the power of settling the number and salaries of the  personnel,
 MR. CHILDERS  concurred with the hon. Member for Peterborough that some Minister ought to be responsible for the appointments made.
 MR. CRAUFURD  did not see why the Audit Board should not have the initiative in the appointments, even if such appointments were to be subject to the approval of the Treasury.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home
 1769
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council, Whether the Government have any intention to introduce a Bill to amend the Public Health Acts, and whether it will contain any Clauses which deal with the pollution of rivers, in accordance with the recent Report of the Commissioners?
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, the Conference at Paris on the subject of the Danubian provinces had not broken up. They continued to sit from time to time, and while they did so it would be obviously improper to lay on the table any Papers relating to the proceedings of the Conference.
 MR. LAYARD  said, it was obvious that a question affecting a matter in which so many European Powers had a right to take part could not be answered on the part of the British Government alone; but he might say that the treaties on this subject bound the great Powers of Europe, in conjunction with Turkey, to provide for the election of a native prince.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that very great anxiety existed throughout the country generally in reference to these Returns, as it was believed that the alterations in the county suffrage proposed by the Franchise Bill were more considerable than those to be made in the borough franchise. As Government had supplied full information with regard to the electoral statistics of boroughs, perhaps they would not think it an unreasonable request that further information should be given with regard to the electoral statistics of counties. He was perfectly satisfied with the explanation given by the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board, as he understood from his statement that the Government had made up their minds that, before the House went into Committee upon the Franchise Bill—if they ever did arrive at that stage of the Bill—the fullest statistical information should be laid upon
 1777
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  repudiated the idea that he had intended by the answer he gave last night to throw out a suggestion to the clerks of unions to delay the Returns. His statement last night was identical with that which he had made on two previous occasions—namely, that the parochial officers were under no obligation to make these Returns, which had no bearing upon, nor connection with, their official duties, and the only reason they had been asked to draw them up was because they happened accidentally to have in their possession the particular books from which the Returns were obtained. When Government desired the Returns which had already been laid upon the table to be made, some remuneration was given, in order to accelerate their progress. As he had already informed the hon. Gentleman during the evening, he had inquired whether there was any precedent for the House voting money for Returns moved for by a private Member, and he had found a precedent for such a proceeding. He had also told the hon. Member that so far from there having been any unnecessary delay in the production of these Returns, 164 of them had been made already. In reply to the Question of the hon. Gentleman, he would now say that an arrangement would be made with the clerks of the unions to remunerate them for their labour in the matter on the same scale as that given in the case of the Government Returns.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is the intention of the British Government to oppose the desire which has been manifested by the people of Roumania, to elect Prince Charles of Hohenzollern Sigmaringen as their ruling prince? The question was one which affected the happiness of a kingdom and the tranquillity of Europe. Some time before Easter he had called the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the part the right hon. Gentleman took in 1858, in regard to the future prosperity of these people, then called Wallachians and Moldavians, but now designated by a more generic name. At that time, before his attention was occupied with more pressing matters, the right hon. Gentleman had succeeded by his intervention in procuring the suppression of the arrangement for the separation of the two provinces, which was
 1775
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the Building intended for the Records of Ireland has been finished, and when they will be placed there; and further, what measures was to be taken by the Government for editing and publishing such Records, and to move for a Copy of the Treasury Minute on the subject? He urged the propriety of removing to Ireland all Records properly belonging to that country, and pointed out that but a small sum had been expended on Irish Records compared with that expended in England and Scotland.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, Why the instalment of the Delhi Prize Money which has been last distributed in India has not also been distributed to the Troops in this Country?
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, If it be true that the Chaplains in the Army are not paid until their pay is three months in arrear; and, if so, why they are subject to an inconvenience to which no other class of Officers is subject, and if a promise which it is said has been made to remove it will be carried into effect, and when?
 MR. HUNT  stated, that previous to the present Session he had always understood that it was a rule of the House that papers or cards might not be left by Members on the Benches in order to preserve certain seats, but if they left their hats, it was sufficient evidence that they were in or about the House. That being the case, hon. Members were allowed to retain the places where the hats were left provided they were taken up just previous to the time of prayers. That day he had had the misfortune to be serving on a Committee upstairs, and being anxious to secure a seat he had come down and placed his hat, in the shape of a representative, on the seat which he usually occupied. Having done that, he returned to his duties, and about twenty minutes before four o'clock he came to the House in time for prayers, intending to take his hat and his seat, and found, to his great astonishment, his hat in the possession of the Doorkeeper, and another Gentleman in his place. Now, if the old rule were to be infringed upon and hon. Members serving upon Committees could not leave anything in the House by which they could preserve their seats, it would come to this, that the idlers of the House would be able to obtain seats during the debates, while the working men would be debarred from doing so. He could not believe that that would be the wish of the House, and he also thought that some courtesy should be shown to those who spent a great part of their time in the Committee-rooms upstairs. If that rule should not be adhered to, Members would not be willing to serve on Committees.
 MR. HUNT  said, he wished to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, When the Returns moved for by the hon. Member for Lincolnshire will be laid upon the table of the House? The order for making the Returns which related to the electoral statistics of counties was made on the 16th and 21st of last month. The right hon. Gentleman the President of the Poor Law Board was asked last night when the Returns would be ready, and he was reported to have said that the clerks of the unions were not obliged to make those Returns, and that unless some remuneration were given for the extra labour it was not very certain when they would be laid upon the table. It appeared to him that the remarks of the right hon. Gentleman would act as a direct suggestion to the clerks of the unions to take their time in preparing the Returns. He was sure that the Returns would contain much valuable information without which it was impossible fairly to discuss the Franchise Bill. In his opinion, when the House ordered Returns of this kind to be made it pledged itself to vote any money that might be required to insure their being made within a reasonable time, and under such circumstances he did not think it would be unreasonable that some remuneration should be given to the clerks of unions who were engaged in making up the Returns asked for. He therefore wished to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whether he would promise to
 1776
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Conference at Paris on the subject of the Danubian Provinces has been broken up, and for what reason; and if the Government will lay upon the table of the House the Papers relating to the proceedings of the Conference?
 MR. SANDFORD  complained that he left his hat on a seat that day, while he went to the table to get a card for the back of his seat, and when he returned from the table he found that his hat had been removed. He thought if such directions as had been complained of had been given by the Serjeant-at-Arms he was guilty of a great dereliction of duty—and that some further instructions ought to be given to the Serjeant-at-Arms to prevent the recurrence of such a thing.
 MR. CHILDERS , in reply, said, the Irish Record buildings had just been completed at a cost of £36,000, The architect of the Board of Works had had the advantage of seeing the arrangements at the Record Office in Chancery Lane, and it was believed that the Board of Works had availed themselves fully of every suggestion which the experience of the Record officers there had enabled them to offer, both as regards security and facility of reference. The space provided in the building would afford ample accommodation for all the public Records now dispersed over different offices in Dublin, with a due allowance for their increase in future years. These were first the legal Records in charge of the Master of the Rolls, and appertaining to the Courts of Chancery and Common Law, the Prerogative, Probate, and Admiralty Courts—they were now for the most part in the Four Court Buildings; secondly, the State papers and public Records, such as those of the Irish Parliament and Privy Council—these were now in the Birmingham Tower at the Castle; thirdly, the Landed Property Records—these were now in the lower part of the Custom
 1774
 MR. SPEAKER : Some years ago the House made an Order to the effect that the only mode of securing a seat for the evening should be for Members to be in attendance at the time of Prayers. It was found that great inconvenience resulted from leaving a glove or a book in order to secure a place, because it might be removed inadvertently, or by accident, and the consequence was disagreeable discussions between hon. Members. The Order of the House is that the only way to secure a seat shall be by attendance at prayers, and that then a card shall be placed at the back of the seat. I have given no further order or direction upon the subject. Ques-
 1766
 MR. WALPOLE  said, that some years ago provision was made for the compulsory absence of the Speaker by a Resolution
 1764
 MR. MONSELL  said, in reply, that when the rolls for the third distribution of the Delhi prize money arrived at the India Office they were immediately sent to the Prize Court, where they arrived on the 5th of April, and without delay were sent to the Committee to investigate claims and distribute the money.
 MR. TITE , in reply, said, the Metropolitan Board of Works had purchased 120 acres, at a sum of £24,000, for the purposes of the Act. With respect to the disposal of that land, they had not parted with any portion of it whatever or in any manner. No such arrangement as stated had been come to with respect to the twenty acres referred to by his hon. Friend.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the attention of the Government, in common with most other persons, has been directed to the alleged rapid exhaustion of our coalfields, and the statements made with regard to the probable time of their duration. But the Government is not in possession of any accurate information on the subject. I am not aware that any person is in possession of information which may be called certain and accurate, but the Geological Survey Department has furnished a good deal of information on the subject, and upon this information I believe some of the statements which have been made are founded. The Government are not at present aware that any advantage would be derived from instituting an inquiry independent of the Geological Survey Department.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, I have addressed a circular letter to some of the largest towns in the Kingdom with reference to the subject which my right hon. Friend brought before the House. The result of the answers which I have received is that in every one of those towns in different parts of the country there is power on the part of the local authorities to prevent the nuisance arising from the smoke of furnaces, but there is a great diversity in the mode in which the law is enforced? [Sir ROBERT PEEL: What law?] The law requiring the consumption of smoke or preventing nuisances arising from smoke. There is a great laxity in the course possessed by some of the authorities in the institution of prosecutions against persons violating the law. I shall lay on the table a copy of that circular letter, and I may add that a Bill is in preparation by my right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Council, one of the objects of which will be to provide some sum-
 1773
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that the statement made by the President of the Poor Law Board last night was to the effect that unless some remuneration were given to the parochial officers it was very doubtful when the Returns would be made. He thought that in a case of such importance as the present, where the votes of some hon. Members might be determined by the result of the Returns, the Government should make it their business to procure the information as speedily as possible, and to award the remuneration that might be found necessary to insure the result. The Government had granted remuneration from the public purse in the case of the
 1778
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  stated that, under the present arrangements, it was really impossible for Members to secure seats in the House when engaged upon Committees. The accommodation was inadequate. Now that the House was about to enter on what appeared likely to be a long series of debates, it was important that the Representatives of larger and important interests should be enabled to hear, and, if they desired it, to take part in them. Various important suggestions had been made on the point, but the reply generally was that so large a sum of money had been expended on the inconvenient House in which they were sitting that the outlay necessary to make further alterations in it could not be afforded. He thought it better, however, that it should be at once acknowledged that an error in the construction of the House had been committed, and that it was expedient it should in some way be so enlarged as to furnish a decent amount of space for the accommodation of Members.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department a Question with reference to the pledge given by him before the Easter recess as to the introduction of a Bill on the subject of the nuisance resulting from the Smoke of Furnaces in Towns and Country districts?
 MR. BRIGHT : Mr. Speaker—Before I address myself to the question which is before the House there are two matters of a personal character which I wish to dispose of. The right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), on the first night of this debate, made a complaint that, in a speech out of this House, I had imputed to him, or quoted as from him, words which he had not uttered. The right hon. Gentleman was quite right to make that complaint if he thought it worth while to make it, because there is no doubt—and I am sorry it so happened—that some three or four words which he had not spoken in that connection were added to the passage which he had spoken. I regret the inaccuracy very much. I
 1875 1876 1877 1878 1879 1880 1881 1882 1883 "If one thing can be more destructive to our Constitution than another it will be to have a Reform Bill every few years; and that will be the case if you cannot settle your system upon such grounds that you can reasonably hope that it will stand, I do not say for a long time—finality is out of the question—but for a decent number of years. If you cannot do that, you will lay the foundation for revolution." 1884 "Were you to allow this question, which the Sovereign had three times announced, was one that ought to be dealt with, which three Prime Ministers, among the most skilful and authoritative of our statesmen, had declared it was their intention to deal with, to remain in abeyance." 1885 1886 1887 1888 1889 "A most dangerous innovation, by giving to temporary and fluctuating occupations a preponderating influence over property and intelligence, while it throws large masses into the constituencies who are almost exempt from direct taxation." "The measure which the Cabinet are prepared to recommend (and in which he did not, as you know, concur) is one which we should all of us have strongly opposed if either Lord Palmerston or Lord Russell had ventured to bring it forward." 1890 "I believe that identity of suffrage, which is the principle of the Government Bill, is fatal to the constitution of this country." "Ever since the Reform Act of 832 the working people have been having a less and less share in the representation. They had considerable representation before 1832 through the scot and lot voters and the free men. They are gradually dying out." "I ask my hon. Friends near me to consider if they draw a hard line, and leave the working people behind it, how long they think it will stand?" 1891 1892 1893 1894 "Though we are willing to admit poverty and passion into the franchise, we are not willing to give poverty and passion the lion's share of political power over capital and knowledge." "I am he Have measured all the shires of England over, For to these savages I was addicted To search their nature and make odd discoveries." 1895 "He kicked them downstairs with such a sweet grace, They may think he was handing them up." "The operatives of Rochdale having been left thus free to mature uncorrupted their self-guiding power, would now, I grant, be strong enough to resist such temptation. To artizans of that kind, whatever their political creed, I am willing to grant the franchise. Willing, do I say? That word is much too cold. I wish that, like some old commonwealth of Greece, we might admit them to the franchise by acclamation, too proud of such fellow-citizens to ask what rent they pay for their houses." 1896 "The society now comprises 5,500 members, chiefly heads of families. It has a capital of £85,000, and is selling goods and receiving money at the rate of £230,000 per annum." 1897 "The writer has seen members of the Pioneer Society who had scarcely any work or income for their families during the cotton famine come for 5 s. s. "This does not agree with the Lowe theory. What is taking place in the Rochdale societies is occurring in a greater or less degree in all the societies, of which there are five hundred or six hundred throughout the country." 1898 1899 1900 1901 1902 1903 1904
 MR. WHITESIDE : The hon. Gentleman has made an explanation to the House of a certain matter which affected him personally. Now, I think, Sir, there was another subject with which he might have graciously dealt. He might have explained, if indeed he could explain, the language which he has used towards this House, of which he has the honour of being a Member. I could have expected from one of his nice and critical taste, and of his sensitive feelings, that if inadvertently he had made use of language which his calm judgment might disapprove, affecting the character and dignity of this House, he would have seized the first opportunity which presented itself to explain and apologize to the House for that language. But he has not thought fit so to do, and there I let the matter rest. If I agreed with him that this Parliament was unfavourable to every good measure, and was composed of men who were deadly enemies of the cause of freedom, I would pursue the same course as the hon. Gentleman, and would endeavour to overturn the authority of an odious Assembly. But I believe that Assembly to be the very reverse of what the hon. Gentleman has represented it to be. I believe that it is an ancient, a noble, and a popular Assembly, which rarely passes a bad measure, and generally advocates good ones. For many years what measure had been passed that was deserving of the language of the hon. Member for Birmingham? I wonder, indeed, that the sentiment he expressed should have gained even the temporary approval of hon. Gentlemen opposite. The hon. Gentleman has indulged to-night in a peculiar style of oratory. Some orators speak to persuade, some to delight, and some to convince; others speak in order to abuse, terrify, and denounce. The hon. Gentleman commenced his oration this evening by calling
 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 "Another point to which he wished to call attention was that, up to the present time, the House had not had the slightest indication of the intention of the Government, and the inference he drew was, that no Reform Bill for those countries had been prepared." 1912 s. "The comparative number of voters in counties in Ireland was much greater than in England. Comparing the amount of property, of education, and of intelligence in the counties of England and Ireland respectively with the number of voters which they contain, the disproportion is very striking." "When the multitude prevail the meaner sort are upon the upper hand, and those (generally ignorant) cannot judge of persons nor times, but being for the most part led by faction or affection, rather than by right understanding, and their elections, and thereby the general council of the nation, less generous and noble." s. 1913 1914 s. s. s. s. 1915 "It may be said with respect to the origin of this question, that it is emphatically the work of Parliament. Let me remind the House of what happened in the beginning of the year 1851; and I must say that the event which then occurred was of a nature to saddle the responsibility connected with the introduction of this question, in a high and peculiar sense, not on one or another Government, but upon the body of the House of Commons. It was an independent Member (my hon. Friend, the Member for East Surrey, Mr. L. King), who on the 20th of February, 1851, moved for leave to bring in a Bill to grant £10 occupation franchise to counties. The sole opponent of the motion was my noble Friend now at the head of the Government. There was no discussion, and every other authority in the House either approved or was silent on the occasion. The Government were beaten by a majority of 21. The minority consisted of 52 Members, and among those 52 there were not, I think, more than 12 or 15 who sat on the benches of the party opposite. So that it cannot, I think, be denied, that the first initiation of this subject in the form in which it now comes before us—having begun as a question of the county franchise only—but it being perfectly well known that a change in that must draw a change in the borough franchise along with it; the initiation of this subject, I say, was, in a peculiar sense, the work of the House of Commons." "What I omitted to state, which, at any rate, greatly strengthens the case, was this—that the House gave that vote and expressed that determination in favour of the introduction of the Bill even after my noble Friend then, as now, at the head of the Government, had stated that the Government would give their attention to the subject, and in the ensuing Session submit a measure to its consideration. And yet, in the very face and teeth of that pledge given by my noble Friend, the House of Commons took on itself the responsibility of forcing a vote in favour of the introduction of the Bill. But I am told that the Bill was subsequently thrown out. No doubt; and under what circumstances was it thrown out? The introduction of the Bill was followed by the resignation of the Ministers." 1916 "But, on the 20th of February, a motion was made in reference to a certain question of Parliamentary Reform, and on that question, and in a thin House of little more than 150 Members, the Government was beaten by a majority of nearly two to one. Now, observe, that if that had occurred in ordinary circumstances, I might have thought it owing to the hour and to the thinness of the House, that those in favour of the motion should have attended, and that those who were not in favour of it were not present; but that, on the second reading of the Bill, which the House then gave leave to introduce, the latter would attend and make a majority, in accordance with the view taken by Government on this subject. But, in the actual circumstances in which we were placed, I did consider that, although hon. Members might have voted entirely with reference to that particular question which was before them, and not at all upon any general views of policy, I did not think, that although that might have been their intention, yet that, in effect, having the whole of the financial and other measures of the Government before us, and having a probability, which I was inclined to believe in, that on other measures and on other incidental questions, we might meet with similar defeats, I came to the conclusion that the Government was not in a position to conduct satisfactorily the business of the country in this House during the forthcoming Session. I thought it was for the public interest that, if this were the case, the House should not enter into discussions on financial measures, and be led to form opinions on those questions when it was not so probable that the Government should be able successfully to go through the Session. I thought, likewise, that it was a very dangerous, and that it was a very disadvantageous, thing for the country that the Government should continue liable to defeats from time to time, and, therefore, carrying on a kind of lingering existence during a great part of the Session." Annual Register "The resignation of the Whig Government was not attributed to any single or definite cause, though the recent defeat of the Government on the motion of Mr. Locke King, and, still more, the very unfavourable reception of the Budget, were surmised to have had much to do with it. But the chief cause was declared to be, in general terms, the loss of Parliamentary confidence, the exhibition in many quarters of a resolute hostility to the Government, and, on the part of its usual auxiliaries, an irresolute and distrustful support. With many delicate questions pressing on the attention of Parliament, and with a Cabinet which had been gradually becoming more feeble, and resting more and more on a narrow basis, it was felt on all hands that the strength of the Executive was inadequate to the
 1917 "Mr. Locke King's motion for an extensive alteration of the Parliamentary franchise was earned by above 100 votes to 54. Of these 54 votes, 17 were votes of what I will call, for shortness sake, the Protectionist party, and 27 more were votes of official men; and exclusively of those bound by official ties, the Ministry brought to their support 10 independent Members, and no more. I ventured to state these facts to Her Majesty; and I stated that, small as was the number of my Friends who voted on that measure, I believed their numbers would have been much greater but for an impression that prevailed, 'that your Majesty's Ministers were not honestly exercising their influence to defeat the measure.' I believe that; and my Friends and the House of Commons believed it; and although, if they had believed in the earnest determination of the Government to act upon their own principles, they would have given them a generous and disinterested support, they did not feel themselves bound to attend in large numbers for the purpose of enabling the Government to defeat the measure, while it permitted so many of its own supporters to be absent." "The Bill would have had the effect of spotting the country with little boroughs to be tied together—a system which, if it had been adopted,
 1918 "I think, however, the greatest caution should be used by Parliament with regard to any measure to be adopted upon the subject. I think the genuine distribution of the Reform Bill has produced a fair representation of the intelligence, wishes, and interests of the people, and I should regret any change in the representation which deprived the House of Commons of those Conservative elements which ought to belong to it. I cannot conceive that a House of Commons merely representing numbers would act in harmony with monarchy, the hereditary House of Lords, and an Established Church." "Every Member of this House is bound to watch carefully, and to judge cautiously with respect to any measure that may be produced." 1919 "He thought these further reforms in Parliament most dangerous. He believed that if this question were to be agitated every ten or twenty years, the quiet and sensible part of the people would imbibe a great indifference to the popular franchise. He believed that if these changes were to be introduced, a very large section of the community would be of opinion that it would be much better to live under a mild and tranquil despotism. Well, he did not say all of the people, but a very considerable portion of them, would prefer living under a mild and tranquil despotism, than to have these incessant discussions upon constitutional rights and the constant change of those rights." "I agree with the noble Lord that so much having been conceded, and so large an extension of popular privilege and democratic influence introduced into the Constitution, it is necessary, in order that the balance of the Constitution may be preserved and the existing form of Government upheld, that there should be a great caution in the next advance." 1920 "But, Sir, much as I abhor war, much as I deprecate the evils given, I confess I do not view a war with Russia with that apprehension with which some Gentlemen seem to regard it." 1921 "Such a Bill, intended to touch many seats, could not be carried unless there existed such a feeling out of doors as would act like steam upon a locomotive, and force the House to do something it would not otherwise do." "It was a conundrum and mystification, and the people of this country did not like conundrums and mystifications." 1922 1923 "I think Lord John's resolution highly objectionable. If a settlement of the question is the object they have in view, I cannot understand how the party opposed to the Government can doubt that they ought to agree to the second eading of the Bill that has been introduced." 1924 "But it contains provisions for creating new rights of voting, for partially disfranchising some places that now return Members to Parliament, and for enfranchising others. These principles, applied more or less extensively, are those on which any possible Reform Bill must be founded." "Suppose that a majority in favour of this resolution led to Lord John being himself raised to the office of Prime Minister, either before or after a new Parliamentary election, is there the slightest chance that he would be more fortunate than his predecessors in finding a concurrence of opinion in favour of his own views?" "I contend, with respect to a great portion of the working people, though many are well fitted to take part in the political questions of the day, they are liable to be misled by delusions; and if they should be totally indifferent, that circumstance would give rise to a great venality in our elections; not that these men have any bad intentions; but there are men among them who would consider it not of much importance to themselves whether there existed protection or free trade, religious liberty or persecution, and they would give their votes according to their own immediate interests."—[3  Hansard, "I am one of those who for many years have held the opinion that it would be much better to have this question of Reform approached by successive steps. … I took the liberty of recommending the noble Lord, I suppose, one year and a half ago, and have done it since repeatedly and publicly, that the Reform Bill that should be introduced should be a Bill that should only settle the question of the suffrage, and that it should do it simply and generously. … I regard the Bill simply as it is—a Bill for the extension of the suffrage in boroughs and counties. It does not touch more than just the outside of the question of disfranchisement. … I have considered the question of a transfer of
 1925 Hansard, 1926 Homer, 1927 "I am anxious before the House comes to a division to state, in a very few words, the reasons for the vote which I intend to give. I cannot vote against the Bill of my hon. Friend, because that might warrant the supposition that I am indisposed to any change in the county franchise. Undoubtedly, I am of opinion that there might be some change effected. At the same time it is but fair and candid to my hon. Friend and to the House to say, that I cannot vote for the £10 franchise proposed by the Bill. It appears to me that the object we ought all to have in view is to form a legislative machine in which all interests in the country shall be fairly represented. The two leading interests of this country are, on the one hand, the trading and the commercial interests, and, on the other, the agricultural interest; and any alteration of our system which tends to introduce too largely the trading and commercial, or the town, element into the agricultural, or county element, would, I think, injuriously disturb the balance which it is essential for the interests of the country that we should maintain. That is the view which I take of the measure of my hon. Friend, and therefore, if it should go into committee, I shall not be prepared to vote for the particular franchise which he proposes to introduce."—[3  Hansard, "I venture to differ from my hon. Friend as to the expediency of the course which he has
 1928 Ibid. "There are also other considerations connected with external affairs which have tended to allay the desire for organic changes; I mean considerations arising from the events which have occurred in other countries, and which are attributable, in a great measure, to the influence of organic arrangements in those countries. Those examples seem to indicate danger from interfering with the organic system of the country, and have rendered us less anxious for changes that might possibly approximate to such a state of things as now exists abroad."—[ Ibid. 1929 onus probandi 1930 "I ask, is there any Gentleman on either side of the House who, having heard that speech, has any idea what that policy is to be except a policy which I never expected to hear from any Treasury Bench, and still less from the present one—namely, that the policy would be regulated by their interest in the Government?" 1931 s. "For instance, Oldham will have an estimated number of working class electors of 3,091, so that their total rental is £30,910, while the total rental of the borough is £450,407, so that one-fifteenth part of the total rental will govern the remaining fourteen-fifteenths. Coventry gives £36,660 rental to the working class electors out of £139,134, so that in that borough one-fourth of the rental will govern the remaining three-fourths. The total of the 57 boroughs in which the working classes have a majority is as follows:—Working-class electors' rental, £1,446,642,—total borough rental, £11,958,125; so that one-eighth of the rental will govern the remaining seven-eighths. We may carry the inquiry one step further. When they reach 400,000 votes, the working classes will have a considerable majority of the whole borough constituency. The rental of these voters will be represented by £4,000,000, while the gross estimated rental of all the boroughs of England and Wales is £41,000,000. So that rental paying poor-rate on an assessment of £41,000,000 will be governed and taxed by rental paying only on 4,000,000, or less than one-tenth of its amount." 1932 s. 1933 "The wisdom of a learned man cometh by opportunity of leisure, and he that hath little business shall become wise. How can he get wisdom that holdeth the plough, and is occupied in their labours, and whose talk is of bullocks? He giveth his mind to make furrows, and is diligent to give the kine fodder. So every carpenter and workmaster that laboureth night and day, and they that cut and grave seals and are diligent to make great variety, and give themselves to counterfeit imagery, and watch to finish a work. The smith, also, sitting by the anvil, and considering the iron-work, the vapour, and the fire, wasteth his flesh, and he fighteth with
 1934 1935 "Whenever a Reform Bill is brought into the House of Commons by any Government, be as watchful as you like on the subject of the franchise, but never take your eyes for one moment from the distribution of the Members; for, if you do, you will have to fight your battle over again the day after it passes." "And the Foreign Office of this country to the temples of the Egyptians. We are told by those who pass up and down the Nile, that you perceive on its banks temples, with stately statues and massive and lofty columns, statues each one of which would appear to have exhausted a quarry in its production. You have further vast chambers and gloomy passages; and some innermost recess, some holy of holies, in which, when you arrive at it, you find some loathsome reptile which a nation reverenced and revered and bowed itself down to worship." 1936 simpliciter "Well, then, you observe that there is not very much discussion at this moment on the question of the franchise; the discussion now turns upon the mode in which I have endeavoured to arrange the distribution of Members after having disfranchised a certain number of boroughs, and obtained a certain number of seats." 1937 The Times "I stated in the House of Commons, as a kind of challenge, what I hoped would be repelled with eagerness and indignation. I said to some Gentlemen who were discussing this subject, 'You seem to treat the working men who are to be admitted to the Constitution as an invading army.' To my great astonishment, to my great pain, that imputation, which I had hoped would be indignantly repelled, was warmly accepted as a perfectly true description of the view taken by them." The Times, 1938 "Their reward was that, by doing no harm, they were not hated as other privileged classes sometimes bad been. But was that all the Legislature of this country could offer to the people? Were they to be content, with only undoing the mischief which they and their predecessors had done in former times?" 1939
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he could assure the House that, warned by example, he would endeavour to be brief; and that if he had occasion to make any citations out of  "Hansard," "Hansard" 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946
 MR. WALPOLE : Sir, in rising, as I do, under a sense of deep anxiety, to address the House, the calm and serene spirit which the hon. Member for Birmingham says that my right hon. Friend the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) and myself have exhibited in connexion with this very question of Parliamentary Reform will, at all events, be some guarantee of sincerity in the statement I am about to offer. The question which has been discussed now for six nights has ranged over such a variety of topics that I will endeavour, if I can, to bring myself, at least, if not the House, back to the short though prominent and important issue raised in this debate. That issue, raised by the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Chester to the second reading of the Bill moved by the Government, is, whether, admitting the necessity of Parliamentary Reform, you ought to settle that question on a full review of the whole subject, or according to the proposition contained in the Bill, you are to look at a part of the subject in the first instance, and decide that part before you are in possession of the other portion. Now, Sir, notwithstanding the observations made by the hon. Member for Birmingham to-night, notwithstanding the efforts which both he and the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Torrens M'Cullagh) have made to refute and confute the calm, and I must add the candid and honest, observations of my noble Friend the Member for King's Lynn, that argument of my noble Friend was so cogent, so clear, so complete, and so concise, that, if the debate had not been continued for six consecutive nights. I should have thought there would have been absolutely an end of the question on the first evening that the issue was raised.
 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 Parliamentary Reform, Thoughts on Parliamentary Reform, 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 pari passu 1957 1958 1959
 Mr. GOSCHEN : Sir, after the many interesting and able speeches which have been made, I must ask for myself the kind indulgence of the House. It might
 1960 1961 1962 "The question of Reform was revived on Lord Palmerston's death, and, as I believe, against the wishes and feelings of the country." "What would have been our position if Lord Palmerston had lived—would we now be discussing a Reform Bill? I do not believe it." "It is evident the whole scheme cannot be passed this year; and the best way, in my opinion, is to suspend the whole question until 1867." 1963 "My noble Friend supports the Amendment because the Government bring in a Bill in halves, knowing that the whole cannot be carried. Schedules are elastic. A guarantee," he adds, "is wanted, that the same body shall decide both questions. Anomalies of inequality are increasing. Government will have more influence with new constituencies. To judge of future balance of power, it is necessary to know the effect of Government Bills." 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 "You cannot encounter arguments against the reduction of the franchise by sentimental assertions of the good qualities of the working classes. The greater their good qualities the greater the danger." 1970 1971
 LORD ELCHO  said, that before the Motion was put, he desired to offer one word in explanation. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Duchy (Mr. Goschen) had put expressions in his mouth to the effect that he had a respect for the personal honour, but none for the political honour, of the Government. He begged to state that, to the best of his knowledge and belief, no such words had fallen from him.
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, the noble Lord was under a mistake. He had ascribed the expression in question, not to the noble Lord, but to the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon (General Peel).
 MR. ONSLOW  rose to second the Motion, and was proceeding to make some remarks favourable to the conduct of the Government, when he was met by cries of "Order!"
 MR. YORKE  also rose to complain of the length of the speeches, and the difficulty new Members had of obtaining a hearing. During the two last nights of the debate, twenty-two hours had been occupied by thirteen Members, and four Members had exhausted eight hours. He
 1972
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY  wished to address a respectful appeal to the Speaker. He should be the last man in the House to impute to that right hon. Gentleman any political or party bias; but he thought Mr. Speaker would more conform to the wishes of the independent Members generally, and more also to the spirit as well as to the letter of the Standing Orders, if he would not so exclusively concentrate his eyes upon the front Benches, and if he would not give his right ear to the hon. Member for Lewes (Mr. Brand), and his left ear to the hon, and gallant Member for the county of Dublin (Colonel Taylor). About 130 Members had taken their seats for the first time this Session, and as there might be a considerable amount of latent talent in them, it would be only fair to give that undeveloped talent an opportunity of showing itself. A flood of eloquence, unparalleled in his Parliamentary experience, had been poured forth by past, present, and future placemen. It would be invidious to ascribe their speeches to their foreseeing at no distant day a disorganization and re-construction of political parties, and their consequent anxiety to put forward their various claims, and he was therefore willing to assume that they were all influenced by the purest and most patriotic motives. He certainly was not actuated by any personal feelings, as he had not attempted to address the House, nor did he intend to do so. He merely spoke on behalf of a large class of new Members, who no doubt desired to address the House.
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, that at the pace at which the debate bad proceeded it would not conclude before this time ten years, and feeling certain that the Reform question would not be settled by that time, he was himself in no hurry. He made this calculation because thirty or forty Gentlemen, it was understood, had signified their wish to address the House; only four, five or six rose every night, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given twelve nights as the limit of time this Session. It was evident, therefore, that no Member under fifty years of age, not being a Cabinet Minister, could expect to have the opportunity of speaking, and though he was a young Member, and could wait, it was rather hard on middle-
 1973
 MR. HIBBERT  asked "the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether it was not possible that the debate could be adjourned from day to day, so as to give Members below the gangway, representing large constituencies, the advantage of addressing the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am afraid that as regards the adjournment of the debate to to-morrow we have no choice, in consequence of the decision of the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan), who is unwilling to give way to-morrow, as other Members are. He compels the adjournment of the debate till Thursday. I confess I think that is very inconvenient. Then: is very great advantage in continuing debates of this kind from evening to evening without any intermission at all; but still am not aware that any one has the remedy against, the hon. Gentleman, who is completely master of the situation. The course this evening has been rather peculiar, It is not for me to notice the moment of a Member rising or sitting down, particularly as I myself am obliged sometimes to be a great offender in that respect-but undoubtedly I do hope that on Thursday, if we adjourn till then, it may be found practicable, from the course of the discussion that evening, for a number of Members, who are now waiting the opportunity of addressing the House, to do their duty. As far as the Government are concerned, I am sure they have shown no indications of impatience—and whatever takes place it is not for us to interpose, especially as the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) has somewhat pathetically stated that the six-speeches I have delivered created some difficulties in the way of his friends—and that it required several nights of additional debate to counteract their effect.
 MR. DISRAELI : So far as I can form an opinion there seems a fair prospect, with some forbearance and management, of bringing this debate to a conclusion this week. I should have been very glad if to-morrow had been devoted to the discussion, So far as I am concerned, I
 1974
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he trusted that the Instruction would not prevent the Committee from going straight through the inquiry as regarded China and Japan before they came to Australia.
 MR. CRAWFORD  said, that Australia and the Mauritius would only be considered incidentally until the other portion of the inquiry was completed. It had, however, been doubted whether, under the original Order of Reference, the Committee were justified in hearing evidence even incidentally with respect to Australia.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not know of any case of application on the subject to the British Government by the French Government for a considerable time back. He thought that the last occasion on which an application was made was in 1856. Various representations with respect to these monies had been made by individuals, but not by either of the two Governments, sometimes to the effect that a sum of £1,000,000, or more, was due from England to the French Government, and other times to the effect that £2,000,000 or £3,000,000 were due to the English Government by the French Government; but upon the whole the Government did not attach much weight to these representations, and he thought that the transactions under the Convention had closed long ago, according to the intentions of the contracting parties. Therefore, to his knowledge, no communications answering the description given by the hon. Baronet had taken place within the time referred to, or for a long time before.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE,  in reply, said, the subject of the appointment of two legal assessors to the Poor Law Board in Edinburgh, in order to save expense, was under consideration, but he believed the statements of the expenses had been much exaggerated.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he will lay upon the table of the House any information furnished to the Government by the Geological Survey Department on the supply of Coal in England?
 MR. H. BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether he would be disposed to introduce a Bill to authorize the appointment of two legal assessors to the Poor Law Board in Edinburgh, to decide all cases relating to the administration
 1873
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  replied, that if he postponed the Motion of which he had given notice, and which stood for to-morrow, he should have very little chance of bringing the subject forward before the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced his Budget. Even if the Reform debate concluded on Thursday, he should have very little chance of bringing on his Motion on Friday, as an Amendment in Supply; for an important Amendment connected with Ireland had precedence. If, therefore, he did not persevere with his Motion to-morrow he should very much peril its success. He
 1874
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Dudley, Whether it is his intention to bring on his Motion on the subject of Fire Insurances? He understood that the hon. Member for Greenwich would postpone his Motion, which stood first on the paper, in order that the debate on the Reform. Bill might be proceeded with.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he would beg to a9k Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether any demand has been made within the last four mouths by the French Government on the British Government relative to the re-payment by the latter Government to the former of an alleged surplus of the monies provided by France, and paid to the English Government, in pursuance of the Convention of Paris (1815–18), to indemnify British subjects for their losses by confiscation during the Revolutionary Government; or whether any communications on the above subject have been passed between the Governments of the two countries; and, if so, whether there is any objection to lay such communications upon the table of the House?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the Geological Survey Department had collected a large amount of information relative to the exhaustion of the coalfields. If the papers were laid before Parliament in their present shape, he feared they would not be intelligible; but he would communicate with the Department, and with their assistance he thought there would be no difficulty in extracting a considerable amount of information connected with the subject, which he would lay on the table of the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, there could be no doubt as to the importance of the question now raised, particularly after what had been said by the hon. Member for the University of Oxford. He said, "We admit our liability to local taxation by the provisional arrangement which now subsists." [Mr. GATHORNE HARDY: Not our liability, but the justice of the claim.] He was bound to say that the observation just made reflected upon another point of the speech of the hon. Member, which was not quite accurate. The hon. Member observed that the question was not a great change in the law; but, in point of fact, it was a very great change in the law which was now the question—in as much as, by law, up to the present moment, the whole of the property of the Crown for purposes of rating was entirely exempt from taxation. He inferred, however, from the tone of his hon. Friend, and the general tone of the House, that, owing to a want of information on the subject, it was not now possible to come to any conclusion upon it. Perhaps, however, the House would allow him to bring into view one or two topics which it was very necessary to bear in mind in discussing the question. In the first place, it was necessary to bear in mind that, whilst Gentlemen appeared there as the advocates of particular parishes which had Government works within their limits, the great majority of the parishes in the Kingdom had no such works. In passing, he would relieve the mind of the hon. Member for Devonport, who seemed to labour under great anxiety with regard to the borough he represented. He seemed to think that his fate was trembling in the scales; but there would be no betrayal of confidence if he were to state that the Government had not the slightest intention of proposing the disfranchisement of the borough of Devonport. [Mr. FERRAND: Will the right hon. Gentleman omit Clause 10?] He would limit his answer to the question which was first put to him, and he replied that there was no intention to disfranchise the borough of Devonport. As he understood the matter before the House, there were four great classes of exemptions from rates in the country; but it was the double character of the exemptions which he wished to impress upon the mind of the House. Besides the question
 2000 s. 2001 quasi
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was glad to hear the hon. Gentleman who made the Motion say that he did not expect his Motion would be at once adopted by the House, and probably, therefore, the hon. Gentleman did not intend to press it upon the attention of the House, his object being that the principle contained in his Resolution should be considered by the House. The moderate course pursued by the hon. Gentleman relieved them from much difficulty, because it would enable them to discuss the question raised without prejudice, and it was very desirable that the attention of the Government and of hon. Gentlemen should be directed to the subject, in order that a clear conclusion might be arrived at as to the best mode in which local charges should be provided for. He might say that he was one of those who did not think that these transfers of local charges to the Consolidated Fund were things in themselves politic and advisable, and in his opinion no such transfer should take place, except for some very strong and definite object of public policy connected with the immediate matter. The hon. Gentleman mentioned various precedents in favour of his proposal, referring to the police rate and the medical and educational expenses connected with the administration of the Poor Law, and he might also have referred to the greatest instance of all—the constabulary expenses in Ireland. With regard to the police rate, the reason why the Consolidated Fund was saddled with one-fourth of the expense was simply to secure a great object of public policy in the establishment of an efficient police. So with regard to the medical and educational expenses, one great object in view was to bring up the administration of the Poor Law to the point which it was deemed requisite that it should attain. In
 2005 2006
 MR. HENLEY  said, that the clause, in the way he read it, unless amended would bring things to a dead lock, and the result would probably be that the House
 2010
 MR. HENLEY  could not vote for the Amendment, the effect of which, taken in conjunction with the eighth clause, would be that the Controller General might leave the Report to be made by the Assistant Controller alone. The House, in that event, would only get a Report from the less responsible officer.
 MR. DENMAN  wished to illustrate the hardship of the present state of the law, by a case in which he had been professionally concerned. Formerly, property vested in the old East India Company was rateable; but it was decided some short time since that, from the time the Act of Parliament passed transferring the government of India to the Crown, the same property when invested in Her Majesty for the purposes of India was exempted. The consequences of this was, especially in one instance—of the parish of Lambeth—that when the Crown possessed large property, the burden of heavy poor rates was thrown upon those who, from their own poverty, could ill afford to support it.
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether Her Majesty's Government have received any intelligence of an attack made or threatened by the Fenians on any of our North American Colonies; and, if he will communicate the purport of it to the House?
 MAJOR DICKSON  denied that the Government works at Dover were any attraction to strangers, and contended that the land which was employed for the safety of
 1999
 MR. AYRTON  called attention to its language, according to which, he said, Ways and Means were to be granted by Resolution without an Act of Parliament. The clause would allow the Treasury without the sanction of Parliament, to take possession of money and dispose of it as they liked.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he wished to know, Whether the private information conveyed to him has been confirmed by any information in possession of the Government, to the effect that the French Government do not intend to press for the renewal of the Treaty permitting the exportation of Coolies from the East Indies to the French Colonies?
 MR. LAYARD  said, he regretted that he could not give a satisfactory answer to the question of the hon. Member. The time for giving notice had been prolonged, and he was not certain what course the French Government would pursue. When he received information on the subject he would take care to communicate it to the hon. Member.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, What reply the Government have made to Addresses from New Zealand for separation of the two islands under distinct Governments?
 MR. SELWYN  said, he wished to know-when the Bill to which the right hon. Gentleman referred would be introduced?
 MR. SELWYN  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether the Bishopric of Nelson, New Zealand, had not continued vacant for many months in consequence of the refusal of Her Majesty's Government to assent to the consecration of a successor, although such successor has been nominated by the Bishop of London, at the request and with the subsequent approval of the Synod of the diocese, and whether such assent has not been requested by the Archbishop of Canterbury and by the Bishops and other members of the Church in New Zealand, without asking for any Patent, or for the grant of any temporal dignity or coercive authority. He also wished to ask, whether the assent of the Crown has not been given in a similar case in reference to Rupert's Land?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS,  in rising to bring forward the Motion on this subject of which he had given notice, observed, that he would most willingly have given way to allow the important debate on the second reading of the Representation of the People Bill to be proceeded with; but, as the House was aware, the hon. Member for Dudley (Mr. H. B. Sheridan) declined to accede to the suggestion which had been made to him to do so. He, therefore, hoped the House would give him a patient hearing while introducing to their notice a subject which was one of considerable national importance, and in which his con-
 1991 1992 s. s., s. 1993 "That, in the opinion of this House, Her Majesty's Government should consider the expediency of recommending to Parliament that all lands and buildings used and occupied for public purposes ought to be liable to local rates in the same manner as other property, and pay rates accordingly."
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  expressed his satisfaction at the turn the discussion had taken, and with the understanding that the subject would not be lost sight of, but be thoroughly investigated at an early day, he begged leave to withdraw his Motion.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that he had received no account of any attack made by the Fenians on any part of the British North American Provinces. With regard to attacks threatened, it had been known to the House and the country for some time past that rumours of such threatened attacks had given rise to a great manifestation of loyal feeling among the people of the Provinces, and that precautions against such attacks had been adopted both by the Imperial and Colonial authorities. He had received no further account of the proceedings to which the noble Lord, alluded, except that at the departure of the last mail from Halifax a body of Fenians was stated to be assembling on the eastern boundary of the United States, but he had the strongest expectation that the precautions taken would prevent any attack that might be contemplated.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, in reply, that the answer which the Governor of New Zealand had been directed to return to the addresses was, that the British Government were not prepared to encourage any expectation that they would be able to advise the concurrence of the Crown in the separation. At the same time, as it was stated that the Governor had expressed an opinion in favour of some change of Go-
 1990
 MR. CARDWELL  said, he would take an early opportunity of giving notice on the subject.
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that it was quite true the succession to the Bishopric of Nelson had remained vacant for some time in consequence of the inability of the Crown to give a sanction to the appointment of a successor in the usual way; that inability having been occasioned by the difficulties which had arisen in law in consequence of the decision of the Privy Council in the case of Natal. The Bishops of New Zealand had presented a memorial to the Crown, in which they prayed that they might be permitted to surrender their Letters Patent, and that their successors should be appointed without Letters Patent. They further prayed they might be permitted to fill up vacancies in their own body by their own inherent right, without Letters Patent or Royal Mandate. That memorial from the Bishops of New Zealand was accompanied by a minute from the Ministers of New Zealand, objecting to the creating of corporations within the colony by the act of the Crown without their advice, and objecting to any arrangement by which any  quasi- 1989
 MR. E. CRAUFURD  objected to the Controller being made co-ordinate with the other officer, and stated that there was a possibility of there being a divided opinion in the Report the clause directed should be presented to the House. He thought justice had not been done to the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Childers) for the way in which he had watched over the great principle of the Bill, which enabled the House to stop the supplies whenever circumstances required the adoption of such a course; and the House owed him a great debt of gratitude for the attention he had given to the subject.
 MR. E. CRAUFURD  said, his object was that, though the whole responsibility rested upon the Controller General, the Assistant Controller would be brought in upon equal terms with him when the Report was made to the House. He therefore moved the omission of the words "the Assistant Controller and Auditor."
 MR. WARNER  seconded the Motion; and said the expense of taking care of the sick in workhouses and the hospitals ought
 2004
 MR. WARNER  stated that the anomalies which had been brought forward that night had been very much aggravated during the last year or two. If there were to be exemptions, they should be founded on some fixed principle. According to the decision of Lord Westbury, charitable institutions—which formerly, by a kind of
 2002
 MR. KNIGHT,  in moving a Resolution on this subject, said, that for nearly throe centuries each parish had provided the money for relieving its own poor, and directed the way in which the money was to be expended. The tendency of modern legislation, however, had been very much to change this order of things. The agitation for the extension of the area of rating bad been confined to very few places, and it was got up chiefly by the action of the Poor Law Board. The law of Elizabeth laid it down that everybody ought to be rated according to his ability, but it was very difficult in parochial rating to ascertain the ability of a person to pay. The matter was at last settled in 1839 by a distinct decision that stock-in-trade was absolutely rateable, but it was afterwards found necessary to excuse it from rating. Be that as it might, the state of the law was now altogether changed. Modern legislation had since 1839 laid down many new precedents, and it had been in repeated instances acknowledged that it was unfair that the whole of the local rates should be paid by real property. A portion of the county rate, he might add, for certain local purposes, a portion of the police, the salaries of the masters and mistresses of union workhouses, the stipends of pupil-teachers, part of the expenses for medical officers, and some other
 2003 "That, in the opinion of this House, it is expedient that all items of Poor Law expenditure throughout the United Kingdom, not being in-maintenance or out-relief, or otherwise under the immediate control and direction of Boards of Guardians or Parishes officers, should become a National charge."
 MR. KNIGHT,  in reply, said, that the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would have been more appropriate if it had been delivered before the passing of the Act of last Session, when the Government threw the whole adjustment of the question previously existing to the winds, and substituted an entirely new state of things. The ratepayers were greatly grieved by the operation of that Act, because in many parishes property was one-eighth less in value now than it was before the passing of the Act.
 2007
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY  observed, that the Government already paid rates in some instances, and, therefore, they to a certain extent admitted that there was some claim upon them for rates in respect of their property. It did not seem unjust that when all other property paid rates Govern-
 1998
 MR. WHALLEY  was of opinion that, as the clause now stood, the difficulty anticipated by the hon. Gentleman could not possibly arise. The clause did not say that the Controller General and the Assistant Auditor were to report unanimously. They might, therefore, as it appeared to him, express their separate opinions in the Report.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, that no statement had been made as to the scope or origin of this Bill. It seemed to be the co-relative measure of the Bill respecting the Roman Catholic oath. That measure was called a Bill for unmuzzling Roman Catholics, whilst the present Bill might be
 2008
 MR. HODGKINSON  appealed to the hon. Member for Dudley not to proceed with his Motion relative to the further reduction of the fire insurance duty. Considering the excitement which prevailed in the House, and in the public mind at the present time with reference to another subject, he thought the hon. Gentleman would best consult the interests of the cause which he had at heart by postponing his Motion, and leaving the subject for the present in the hands of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that if he had been present on the previous night when the discussion took place between the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the right hon. Gentleman the leader of the Opposition, he should certainly have announced his intention of withdrawing his Motion to-night. So many representations had been made to him in the course of the afternoon that it would be better to postpone this question, at all events for the Session, leaving the matter in the hands of the right hon. Gentleman, who had already made large concessions, that he thought his best course would probably be to withdraw the Motion of which he had given notice and wait patiently to see what the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to do with reference to the subject.
 MR. CHILDERS  would first state what the proposition of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Greenwich was, and then what was the exact state of things with regard to the rating of Government property at the present time. The proposal made by the hon. Gentleman was that all public property should be rated, and that, not according to its then value, but according to what its value would be if it were built upon by private speculators. The annual amount at present paid by Government for rates upon public property in different parts of the country was about £27,000, but what they would have to pay were the property to be rated as if it were built upon—for instance, in Chelsea—he could not even guess at. Therefore, in the interest of the general taxpayers of the country, he trusted the House would hesitate before they acceded to the proposition of the hon. Member. The state of things as regarded the payments made by Government on account of local rates was this—It had been supposed that the law made a distinction between property said to be beneficially occupied and that not so occupied; and that the latter was not subject to local rates. That appeared to have been the received doctrine on the subject until the decision in the House of Lords in July last, which laid down the rule that all property whether beneficially occupied or not was subject to the payment of rates, but that as the Crown was not expressly mentioned in the statute, Government property was generally exempt. Until 1861 no payment whatever was made by Government on account of rates upon public property, but in 1858 there was an inquiry into the subject by a Committee of that House, and the result was that a Bill was introduced to render Government property liable generally to poor rates. That Bill was not proceeded with beyond the second reading, but the late Sir George Cornewall Lewis took the opportunity of entering fully into the question, and eventually an arrangement was come to whereby all Government
 1996 1997
 MR. CHILDERS  replied that this was the state of things at present, and practically it was the only possible state of things.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he could not take credit for all that the hon. Member for Ayr had said regarding the preservation of the great principle of the Bill. It was true that the Bill when originally proposed did not contemplate the aid of the Assistant Controller in the matter; but after a full inquiry it was deemed advisable to follow the example of public companies, and appoint two auditors. In discussing the subject a variety of questions arose, and, as it was believed that no work would be done unless the responsibility were fixed upon one individual, it was agreed that a head officer should be appointed in whom the Parliament could place confidence, and that he should be well paid and have power to make rules for the discipline of his office. There would, however, be no objection to introduce the words proposed by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Oxford-shire, and with that Amendment he trusted the clause would be agreed to.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would take care that words should be inserted in order to prevent the possibility, in case of a dif-
 2011
 MR. BRADY  gave his decided opposition to the Motion, on the ground that the inhabitants of the places where Government property was situated derived advantage in other ways from its being in their neighbourhood.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  (Rochester)  remarked that in the case of St. Margaret's, Rochester, the grievance was even greater than that complained of in Chelsea, as the Government refused to make any contribution to the local burdens, although, in addition to their military prison or hospital, they kept a large part of the parish under grass, and rendered some of the best building sites useless on account of
 1995
 MR. FERRAND  thought that the hon. Member who had brought forward this subject had by so doing done good service to many persons who at present suffered considerably. He was almost afraid to refer to the injustice which the present state of things inflicted upon the inhabitants of his own constituency (Devonport), lest the Chancellor of the Exchequer, instead of confining himself to the disfranchisement of the dockyard men, who were to lose their power of voting in consequence of their Members having made known their grievances, should introduce a clause into the Reform Bill disfranchising the whole of the borough. He must, however, so far perform his duty as to state that the exemption of Government property in Devonport from rating was a great injustice to the ratepayers, and constituted another reason, arising from the additional taxation, why the dockyard men were entitled to the increase of wages which they had petitioned for.
 MR. TITE,  in seconding the Motion, said, that by way of illustrating the grievances which now existed, he would take the parish of Chelsea, in which he was a resident, and acted as one of the overseers of
 1994 s. d. s.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  did not see how, in certain circumstances, the Report could be made a joint Report from the officers named in the clause. The Bill stated that there was to be a Report made and signed by two officers; but if they were to differ in opinion he did not see how this could be done.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, there had been some misunderstanding as to whether this Bill would be brought on to-night, and therefore he begged to withdraw his Motion for the second reading.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, there certainly had been some misunderstanding upon the subject, and therefore it would be better to postpone the second reading for a fortnight.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge had maintained that all that Dissenters and those who did not agree with the Church of England could desire was given by the foundation of the University of London. Now, although he had pursued his studies at that University, and bore towards it the same affection which most men bore towards their  Alma Mater, 2044 2045
 LORD HENLEY,  who had acted on the two Committees that had sat upon the subject, thought that the House and the public were under some obligation to the hon. Member for Peterborough for the care he had taken in preparing the Bill, some parts of which, however, were almost impracticable. The subject was one that Parliament ought to take into serious consideration, and the Government had been very slow in dealing with it. The system of turnpike trusts was most expensive, and cost more than it ought to do, and it was therefore a wise policy to annihilate the trusts; but they were being abolished so slowly that their diminution was scarcely perceptible. In 1854 there were 1,112; in 1860, 1,095; and in 1864, 1,085. There were a number that were actually out of debt, and those might be dealt with much more easily than others, because the expense of maintaining the roads would be thrown upon the rates of the parish or district, although there would be injustice in throwing the interest or the principal of the debt upon the rates. But the Government had scarcely even dealt with the trusts that were out of debt. In 1860 there were 153 that were free of debt; and in 1865 there were 160; but in the latter year only eleven were annihilated. The system would never come to an end if
 2064
 MR. BARING  could not at all agree in the opinion which had been expressed, that the Government had been remiss in this matter. If the House would refer to the Report alluded to by the hon. Member for Peterborough, they would see that the Government had acted on the practical recommendations of the Committee, and had acted on them with vigour. It was assumed that the Committee bad recommended some system by which tolls would be abolished, and that some area of rating should be adopted. That was far from being the case. There wore three several proposals made to the Committee. The first was that if turnpike trusts were abolished, the expenses should be thrown on the highway districts. That proposal was negatived by the Committee. The next proposal was, that the expenses should be thrown on the parishes. That, again, was negatived by the Committee. The last proposal was, that the expenses should be thrown on the county rate, and the Committee likewise negatived that proposal. Now, he would ask the hon. Baronet what course he would recommend. The hon. Baronet had himself pointed out how unjust it would be to throw the expenses of the maintenance of roads forming long lines of communication between largo towns on the parishes in which the roads were situated. That was the main difficulty in this matter. If the highway districts were to be taken as the area of taxation, it would be necessary first to make the adoption of the Highway Act compulsory, and it might be advisable to consider if in all cases proper districts had been formed. He objected to this Bill because it dealt with all trusts together, and did not consider the circumstances of each, so that if it were to pass, it would inflict great injury upon ratepayers in many instances. Some progress had been made in the abolition of the trusts. In 1863, 92 miles of turn pike road had been thrown open; in 1864, 63 miles; and in 1865, 219 miles, including those important trusts on the south
 2066
 COLONEL DOUGLAS PENNANT  said, that the cost of the collection of tolls at the turnpike gates was equal to the interest of the debt, there being 1,100 trusts, having an average of four gates, each costing at least £25 a year. The best course would be to withdraw the Bill with a view to the further consideration of the subject by those best acquainted with it, and the introduction of a Bill to effect a considerable improvement of the present system.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE,  in reply, said, he had no doubt that before a very long time the question of the oaths taken by Roman Catholics in connection with the holding of offices by persons of the Roman Catholic religion would occupy the attention of Parliament, and that subject was a much wider one than the question with which the present Bill proposed to deal. But he hoped his Roman Catholic friends would not for a moment suppose that he
 2060
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : Sir, I do not propose to occupy the attention of the House at any great length, having on former occasions stated the circumstances which appeared to me to render such a measure as this desirable. The House will be good enough to bear in mind that this Bill does not touch the question of the Universities in any degree whatever. It can only indirectly affect the Universities, inasmuch as by modern practice nobody can be a member of them unless he be also a member of one of the Colleges. In ancient times, as is well known to those who are familiar with these subjects, the Colleges were mere offshoots of the University, and had no direct and immediate connection with it, except as far as these were places where members of the University lived. But in modern times the Colleges have established a complete monopoly, and no one now can be a member of the University except he be also a member of a College. The Bill, therefore, only affects the Universities indirectly, its direct object having reference to those corporations—the Colleges—included within the two Universities. The position of Cambridge and of Oxford with respect to the subject-matter of the Bill differs somewhat, and I will state shortly what the present position is. As regards Oxford, as everybody will be aware from the discussion which took place the other day upon the Bill of my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Exeter, religious tests are still imposed in the case of all degrees except that of bachelor. Under the Oxford University Act there was an express prohibition of any religious tests being imposed in taking bachelor's degrees in arts, music, or medicine; but, as regards masters of arts, doctors of music, doctors of medicine, theological degrees, and so forth—with regard to all these, the ancient tests are still retained. That is to say, a candidate, before the degree is conferred, is required to sign the Thirty nine Articles and the 36th Canon, by which, in effect, he declares his adhesion to the Church of England. Unless, therefore, the Bill of my hon. Friend the Member for Exeter becomes law, this Bill, as I shall presently explain, can have no direct and immediate operation in the Colleges
 2014 bonô fide 2015 2016 2017 2018 Principia, Moral Philosophy and Evidences 2019 fas aut nefas, Kennet's Register 2020 2021 2022
 MR. AYRTON  had observed that he did not see the absolute necessity of stopping the discussion at that moment, when—
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  congratulated the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett) on the eloquence, earnestness, and sincerity, which had characterized his speech, abounding, as it did, with an enthusiasm and gush of feeling which was rarely met with in that House. He was sure that they all heartily sympathized with the feelings which prompted the speech, though they might not all agree in the views laid down. The first part of that speech, though less forcibly argued than the second, was the portion which would tell most sensibly on his hearers. Accustomed to hard calculating views on the questions which came before them, they were naturally apt to be carried away when a Member burst through the conventionalities of debate with a genuine gush of nature. More, therefore, was the reason that they should be on their guard to act under such a contingency by reason and not by impulse. He referred to that part of the hon. Member's speech in which he argued that there was a strong undercurrent of feeling against the petitions presented on this subject from the University, evinced by the declarations of various fellows of Colleges, and especially of the twenty-eight fellows of Trinity College. These twenty-eight names included persons for whom he had the highest respect, and who were among his most intimate personal friends. They belonged to that illustrious College of which it was his own privilege—one of his greatest privileges, as he always felt—himself to be a member. But, after all, what did it prove? It merely proved that those eminent fellows of Trinity were no more than men. The College had been deprived of the services of such men as Mr. Stirling and Mr. Aldis, who had been trained under their eye and their care for the honours they had gained, and he sympathized alike with the College on its loss, and with those gentlemen on the high and conscientious feelings which led them to renounce the prizes which their ability and perseverance would under other circum-
 2038 2039 2040 2041 2042 2043
 MR. NEATE  said, that much stress had been laid upon the objection that the Colleges were so far private property that the State was not at liberty, without departing from the principles upon which all property rested, to modify those institutions in the way proposed by the Bill now before the House. Now, he was not surprised to hear such a preposterous notion coming from the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent. That hon. Gentleman had intimated that the Church of England was a great corporation holding its property by a title independent of the State, and that it was at the same time at liberty at any time to renounce its connection with the State, and yet to retain its property. He confessed that he was not surprised to hear such a notion from the hon. Member for Stoke-upon-Trent, but he was surprised to hear his right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge so far forgetting those legal studies in which they once took common part as to lose sight of the great principle that whatever was given in the way of charitable endowments was given to the State upon the condition of public utility. He did not suppose that there was any lawyer in the House who would venture to contradict this principle. The real state of the case was that the State in the first instance had to judge of the utility, and if the endowments were accepted, the Attorney General on behalf of the State was called in to settle the mode in which it should be administered. If, in the course of time, abuses crept in, the action of the State would be required, and the intervention of the Attorney General. He did not mean to say that it was desirable or right that the State should
 2048 2049
 MR. SCHREIBER  observed, that having been for ten years resident at the University of Cambridge he naturally took an interest in this subject of the debate—and this circumstance placed him in a position in which hon. Members trespassed with most confidence upon the indulgence of the House—namely, when their acquaintance with the subject under discussion was not altogether speculative. The Bill before the House proposed to remedy a grievance, but he denied the existence of a grievance. It had not befallen him in the course of his University career to have, as far as he was aware of, a Jew or 8 Nonconformist for a competitor. Had it been so, he was free to confess, that it would not have been without regret that he would have parted company with him upon the threshold of a fellowship or a Master of Arts degree. But it would have been with something of surprise that he would have heard from his friend that he had anything to complain of, and those who had a practical acquaintance with the rivalry of the University would understand what he meant by this observation. That friend would have entered on the competition with a full knowledge of the conditions connected with it; he would have received all the educational advantages of the University course, and, what was beyond all price, he would have imbibed the spirit and shared the associations of the place. That was his answer to his hon. Friend the Member for Brighton (Mr. Fawcett); although, perhaps, to have shared those associations and imbibed that spirit would not altogether satisfy those whose cause the hon. Gentleman pleaded. As a man of spirit, proud of the principles which he professed, he would have thought that the first impulse of a Nonconformist would have been to resent the officious interference of friends who were anxious, as hon. Gentlemen appeared to be in this matter, to make things pleasant for him. How was it in life, and how was it in that
 2046 2047
 MR. SELWYN  observed, that the hon. Gentleman who last spoke had ventured to assert, in reference to one of his propositions, that no lawyer would dissent from his views; he, however, would be rash enough to do so. The hon. Gentleman had asserted that whenever the times and circumstances of the case had changed, and the Attorney General had been called in, the courts had considered themselves at liberty to alter the laws and constitution of charitable or educational foundations; but he had entirely overlooked the principle upon which the courts so acted, and upon which the Attorney General was called in with respect to the questions raised in connection with those foundations. The will of the founder, if clearly expressed, was the one distinct rule from which the courts would never depart. This fact would be admitted by the hon. Gentleman if he referred, even for one moment, to the elementary principles of those legal studies which he stated that he had once pursued. If the instrument of the foundation did not clearly express itself on the matter in dispute, the circumstances under which the foundation was made might be taken into account; and these were often sufficient to lead to a correct estimate of the will of the founder with reference to the altered circumstances of the times. This was not a doctrine insisted upon for the exclusive benefit of the Church of England, In proof of that fact he need only refer to the familiar case of Lady Hewley's charity, where the same principle and doctrine were insisted upon by the Nonconformists, and where in accordance with such principle a Trustee, otherwise unobjectionable, was ejected from the governing body of that charitable institution solely on the ground that he was a member of the Church
 2050 2051 "That he was a decided advocate for the claims of the Dissenters; but that when the power of obtaining degrees was given to them they had received all they had a right to ask. They had no right to complain of being excluded from fellowships. These were founded for members of the Established Church, and those who were not members of the Established Church had no more right to claim to participate in the pecuniary advantages which belonged to that Church than any member of the Church of England had a right to share in the endowments founded at Highbury, Maynooth, or Stoneyhurst, or any other dissenting College. The individuals who bestowed the funds from which fellowships were derived had a right to prescribe any restriction they chose upon the disposal of them, and the Dissenters had no more ground to complain of their exclusion from these emoluments than they had to admission into any private charity."—[3  Hansard, Cries of 2052 2053 Blackstone's Commentaries 2054
 MR. CLIVE  also hoped that the Secretary of State would be induced another year to consider whether something could not be done, and stated that Sir George Cornewall Lewis had a Bill in the course of preparation when he left the Home Office. This Bill did not propose to throw additional burdens on the rates. He did not think there was any difficulty in this matter which the Government might not overcome.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he could not accede to the suggestion. [ Cries of
 MR. WHALLEY,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that the turnpike system of England and Wales involved an expenditure of about £1,000,000 a year, and as far as he could form an estimate, not having been able to obtain the Returns which he had moved for, the debts amounted to some three or four millions. Therefore, so far as the turnpike system was maintained for the purpose of paying debts incurred, the only question which the House would have to consider was in what way they were to meet a charge of about £150,000 a year in payment of an existing debt, which being disposed of, he ventured to say there would be no pretence whatever for keeping up a single turnpike road in England and Wales. In the turn pike Acts passed from time to time, the object in all cases being either to make a new road or improve an old one, the toll authorized to be levied had been applied not only to the purpose of the payment of the debt, but likewise to the repair of the roads. That, from the first, was a great stretch of power for Parliament to grant, for it was a transfer, by express legislation, of the common law liability of keeping the road in repair from the land to the public generally. Now, the term during which tolls could he levied for making a new or improving an old road had been always limited, but there was scarcely a single case in which the condition with respect to time had been complied with. As long ago as 1836 a Committee of that House had declared almost unanimously that this tax was the most vexatious and most injurious to every interest of the community that could possibly be levied, and that opinion had been confirmed by the Report of another Committee in 1864, Notwithstanding that, there had been a continual violation of the contract between the managers of the
 2062
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he was anxious to make a few remarks upon the subject under discussion, as from his long connection with the University, he was thoroughly acquainted with all the details of the administration of Colleges, and because he trusted he should be able to interpret fairly and candidly the opinions of those gentlemen who, like himself, appealed to Parliament to remove a restriction which they believed acted prejudicially against the best interests of the Universities. He thought he should be able to show the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University (Mr. Walpole) that he did not quite understand the feeling of the University with regard to open fellowships. It was quite true that each University, as a University, had petitioned against this Bill, and that in the case that had been alluded to in this debate the fellows agreed not to oppose the petition from Cambridge, and for this reason—any one in the University who was not resident could vote, and consequently those who formed the residential body were swamped by men who were not resident, and came from all parts of the country, and therefore they thought it better to refrain from voting on the matter. Three or four years since the right hon. Gentleman who had already spoken on the question presented a petition in favour of open fellowships, signed by seventy-four fellows, including many most distinguished ornaments, not only of the University, but of the Church. That was a public petition circulated in every commination room, and was emphatically a fellows petition. The right hon. Member for the University had said they did not repeat that petition, and therefore threw out the insinuation that the same feeling did not now exist in the University; but the reason why they did not repeat the petition was that every one who signed that petition had not altered his opinions; on the contrary, his convictions were strengthened. If the value of a petition was to be estimated by the names
 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037
 Mr. J. STUART MILL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Inclosure Commissioners have finally signed and sealed their award for the Inclosure of the newly-created Common set out for the ratepayers of the parish of Chigwell; if he is aware that the timber on the fifty acres of recreation ground granted by Parliament in 1862 for the use of the Metropolitan public is being cut down, thereby destroying the forestal appearance of the spot, which the intention of the Legislature was to keep uninclosed and preserved in its natural wildness; and if the destruction of the timber has been sanctioned by the Inclosure Commissioners?
 MR. WALPOLE : I think, Sir, if my right hon. Friend had remembered the fact that my hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford presented a petition the other night, which has been ordered to be printed by the Petitions Committee, under the corporate seal of that University, and had he borne in mind the further fact that I myself, just before he commenced his speech, presented a petition under the corporate seal of the University of Cambridge, he would hardly have made the remark which elicited cheers from the other side—that we were the representatives in this House of the clergy and not of the two Universities. The petition which I have had the honour to present on behalf of the University of Cambridge expresses so clearly, so briefly, and so justly the objections to this Bill, that I hardly know whether I can do anything better than call the attention of my right hon. Friend to it as furnishing a complete answer to the statement which he has just made to the House. The petition begins by stating that everything connected with the government, studies, and religious training of the Universities was referred, as the right hon. Gentleman well knows, to a Royal Commission, among whom there were many persons familiarly acquainted with the constitution of the Universities, and also with the religious education carried on in the separate Colleges. It then goes on to state that those members of the University of Cambridge, to whom I have
 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Cheers from the Ministerial side of the House. 2028 2029 2030 2031
 SIR MICHAEL BEACH  said, he thought the thanks of the House were due to the hon. Member for Peterborough, not for his Bill, which would rather lead to the inference that he was in favour of, than opposed to the present system, but for drawing the attention of the House to this subject. The principle of levying this amount by rate instead of toll, and over a larger area, was, he believed, gaining ground. Farmers were anxious that some change should take place, and the subject was to be taken into consideration at the next quarter sessions of Gloucester. They should take care that nothing unfair was done, by throwing on small parishes the cost of maintaining roads which were almost exclusively used for the purposes of manufacturers and miners who contributed nothing to them, otherwise great injustice would be done to parishes bordering large towns, and to agricultural interests. He also contended that legislation on this subject should not be retrospective in its operation, but if it was possible to extend the area of turnpike roads beyond the area of parishes, it would be desirable. That course was recommended by the Committee of 1864, and he hoped that the Government would introduce a Bill to accomplish this object, and which would deal finally with this subject.
 Sir GEORGE GREY : Sir, the Inclosure Commissioners have not finally signed and sealed their award for this inclosure. The appeal meeting was held only on the 17th of this month, and they have not yet received the Report of their Assistant Commissioner on that meeting. With regard to the latter part of the Question of the hon. Member, the Commissioners have no knowledge of the timber on these fifty acres being cut down, and if it is so it is entirely without their sanction. The timber, they believe, belongs to the lady of the manor within which the fifty acres are situated.
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  was surprised to hear from the hon. and learned Gentleman who had just sat down an argument which he considered to be fatal to the position which the hon. and learned Gentleman wished to maintain—namely, that Dissenters having been admitted to the office of teacher at the Universities ought to be satisfied with that concession. It seemed to be forgotten by those who urged that argument that Oxford and Cambridge were places of education; that those who acted there as teachers filled positions at once the most responsible and important; and that the fair inference to be drawn from the fact that Dissenters were allowed to occupy such positions was that no good ground any longer existed for refusing to them the further slight concession which the Bill proposed to grant. A fallacy, he might add, pervaded the great majority of the speeches in which I such a concession was opposed. It was assumed that the various Colleges at the Universities were founded for the purpose of maintaining the Established Church in this country; and, no doubt, the recital of the Act of Charles II. plainly showed that at the time when it was passed the Established Church had determined, as it were, to take possession of the whole mind of the nation in the matter of education. The provisions embodied in five-sixths of that recital had, however, been since repealed, because a different state of things had arisen and Parliament had come to the conclusion that all attempts to take possession of the mind of the country in that way, on the part of one body, however respectable, were prejudicial to the religious as well as to the literary and intellectual welfare of the nation. That being so, his right hon. Friend the Member for Kilmarnock merely asked the House to repeal the last portion of the Act of Charles II., the result of the operation of which Act had been to reduce the Church and the country at the expiration of 100
 2055 2056
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  said, that they had heard two remarkable speeches in this debate which he thought must have left no doubt in the minds of hon. Members as to what was meant to be the effect of this Bill. Nothing of that effect was to be discovered in the cautious speech of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock, or in the speech of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for the city of Oxford. But the hon. Member for Brighton had told them distinctly that what he had in view in supporting the Bill was that Dissenters should share in the endowments of the Colleges, carrying with them not merely pecuniary advantages, but the high duty of governing the University and leading the minds of a great part of England
 2057 2058 2059
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  solicited an opinion from the Government as to the desirability of passing the Bill, when so
 2063
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  stated, in reply, that the retiring allowances of the quartermasters of militia were not provided by regulation, but by the Annual Pay and Clothing Act, and when that was introduced he would state whether he was prepared to propose any additional allowance.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that clauses had been prepared for the purpose of embodying in a formal shape the suggestions which he had submitted to the House in an informal manner upon the second reading of the Church Rates Bill; but he should wish to have a very few days more to enable himself and his Colleagues to judge what prospect there might be of attaining a useful purpose by the production of those clauses as a Government measure, either in the form of clauses, or in the form of
 2073
 MR. BRIGHT  said, he wished to know, whether the clauses have been prepared in consultation with the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmund's (Mr. Hardcastle), or whether the Government intend to propose them without reference to the Mover of the measure?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that it was his first endeavour to get the clauses into form, and then to submit them to his Colleagues, and he certainly should wish to have the opinion of the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmund's before committing himself by taking any steps in the House with reference to them.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am sorry to be obliged to apply in this instance a rule which it has been found necessary to apply in others. I think it would be premature, and only lead to inconvenience and confusion, if at this time, before the second reading of the Franchise Bill, I were to give any answer with respect to any particular clause. But I there is the less occasion for doing that in this particular instance, as two hon. Members—if I am not mistaken, the hon. Member for Portsmouth (Mr. Serjeant Gaselee) and the hon. Member for Chatham (Mr. Otway)—have both been so far beforehand with the hon. Gentleman that they have given notice to raise this question at a very early stage. I would say, however, that I am extremely glad to infer from the Question of the hon. Gentleman what appears to be the natural construction of it, that if we would withdraw that clause alluded to he would have no remaining objection to vote for the second reading.
 MR. YORKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he is aware that the Capitation Allowances for 1864 still remain unpaid to several companies of the 1st Administrative Battalion of the Gloucestershire Rifle Volunteers; and whether he will state who is responsible for the non-payment of these arrears,
 2075
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the reason why the capitation allowances for 1864 to several companies of the administrative battalion of this force had remained unpaid was on account of some discrepancy as to the amount which had been calculated.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I beg, Sir, to thank the hon.
 2077
 MR. YORKE  said, it appeared to be the tactics of the other side of the House to represent the Conservatives as enemies of the working classes, and to invent sounding phrases disparaging to the working classes, and to impute them to the Conservatives. He (Mr. Yorke) utterly repudiated such imputations. It was said they altogether objected to the enfranchisement of the working classes. Now, although they objected to their admission on conditions which were inexpedient, it did not follow that they were opposed to their admission on proper and sufficient grounds. It seemed to be thought by some that Parliament had not done its duty towards the working classes, because it had not fed, housed, and educated them; but he agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) that, whatever could be fairly expected of the Legislature had been done; and as to what had been said by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill), and by the hon. Member for Lambeth and the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, as to the necessity that the wants and interests of the working classes should be directly represented in that House, he thought the eloquent speech of the right hon. Gentleman had given them a sufficient answer. Nor did he think that any modification of the franchise would be followed by any perceptible alteration in that respect. There was no
 2123 2124 The Times, 2125 Representative Government, "All trust in Constitutions is grounded on the assurance they may afford, not that the depositories of power will not, but that they cannot mis-employ it. Democracy is not the ideally best form of Government, unless this weak side of it can be strengthened, unless it can be so organized that no class, not even the most numerous, shall be able to reduce all but itself to political insignificance, and direct the course of legislation and administration by its exclusive class interest."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to dissent, and to explain that he had said he should have no fear if that class were in a majority in the boroughs.
 MR. YORKE  said, that such a majority seemed to be much the same thing as a preponderance; but he had no desire to misquote the right hon. Gentleman. But in the passage to which he had just referred, the hon. Member for Westminster continued—
 "The problem is to find the means of preventing this abuse without sacrificing the characteristic advantages of popular Government," "Legislative attempts to raise wages, limitation of competition in the labour-market, taxes or restrictions on machinery, and on improvements of all kinds tending to dispense with any of the existing labour, even, perhaps, protection of the home produce against foreign industry, are very natural (I do not venture to say whether probable) results of a feeling of class interest in a governing majority of manual labourers." 2126 Parliamentary Reform "There are few points in which the English as a people are entitled to the moral pre-eminence with which they are accustomed to compliment themselves at the expense of other nations; but of these points perhaps the one of greatest importance is that the higher classes do not lie, and the lower classes, though mostly habitual liars, are ashamed of lying." Northumberland,
 MR. OTWAY  said, he should have been content to give a silent vote on the present occasion, but that the constituency which he had the honour to represent (Chatham) was injuriously affected by its 10th clause; and if he did not succeed in securing the rejection of that clause in Committee, if the Bill even reached that stage, the Motion for the third reading of the Bill would have his most strenuous and determined opposition. The noble Lord the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor) had been careful to announce that his Amendment did not proceed from Tory hands, but would the noble Lord say that he did not count on Tory support? On the contrary, it seemed to him that the Amendment had been concocted with a view to gain the support of the greatest number of persons professing the most diverse opinions possible, and to combine them in one common opposition to the Bill; and the result had shown that those who wished for an extreme measure and those who wished for no measure at all, were all alike willing to support him. The Motion suited those
 2139 "It is one of my gravest charges that they have deceived their friends, falsified their pledges, and libelled the people of England." "I will go even further, and say not only is it the duty of the Government to refrain from a perverse opposition to public opinion, but that they are unable to read the signs of the times and unfit to be intrusted with the Government of the country if they cannot perceive that by the permission of Divine Providence the evident tendency of this country is towards democracy." 2140 2141 2142
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE,  in rising to move the adjournment of the debate, said, he must protest against the elaborate misconstruction [ Cries of
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  protested against this important debate being adjourned at twelve o'clock. On Monday night the debate was adjourned at half past eleven; on that occasion an hon. Member protested against the sort of Herodian principle of the "Massacre of the Innocents" which was adhered to. The debate was to close tomorrow, and at every opportunity the side of the House on which he sat rose almost to a man; and therefore he could not see how the great majority of those anxious to speak upon the subject could attain their object if the debate was to close at so early an hour. On the occasion of the Repeal of the Corn Laws they sat until three or four o'clock in the morning, and he did not see that the Members of the present House of Commons were more degenerate than those who sat there twenty or thirty years ago. He, therefore, hoped that the debate would not be adjourned at so early an hour.
 CAPTAIN GROSVENOR  also protested against the debate being closed at so early an hour.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was not any part of the duty of Government to take upon themselves to say whether or not the debate should be adjourned at that hour. That was a matter for the House to judge of. The right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had apparently expressed the general feeling of the House in the remarks he had made, which came from him with greater propriety than they would have done from any Member of the Government. He agreed in the fullest manner with the hon. Members who had just spoken that it was a great hardship—but an unavoidable hardship—that so many Gentlemen who were desirous to address the House should not have an opportunity of doing so in the course of this protracted debate. As far as the Government were concerned he begged the House to notice that the Secretary to the Treasury, instead of speaking immediately after the right hon. Member for Calne, did not rise until a late hour, so that the greater portion of that evening had been at the disposal of hon. Members. Of course, it could scarcely be expected that the Government would permit the speech of the right hon. Gentleman to pass unanswered. Under any other circumstances the Government would have op-
 2174
 MR. AYRTON  said, that two years ago he opposed the Bill brought forward by the Government, because while that measure ministered to vice, it made no provision for the reclamation of the unfortunate women who were to be made subject to the operation of the Act. He was glad to find that the Government had profited by his advice, and that many of those unfortunate women hail been reclaimed and restored to their friends. He objected, however, strongly to the appointment of stipendiary officers, who were by this measure to grant certificates of health to immoral women, and thus to sanction and promote the practices of debauchery in the towns which wore to be favoured by the protection afforded by the Act, among which he noticed were the names of Windsor and Eton. He attributed the present measure entirely to the action of the medical officers of the army and navy, who strongly objected to the present mode of inspection. He proposed to amend the clause which related to women submitting themselves voluntarily to periodical medical examination by requiring them to make a declaration that they were persons which the law recognizes only to punish.
 LORD CLARENCE PAGET  said, he should decline to follow the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, who appeared to be ignorant of the care taken to preserve the health of the men in both services. He protested against the statement that there was anything in the Bill which could be tortured to mean that women were to be certificated.
 MR. HENLEY  seriously asked the Home Secretary why the Bill, which was very different from the last, was not to be general in its application? If it was to be extended to Windsor, why not to Westminster? [Sir GEORGE GREY: There are troops at Windsor.] There were troops in Westminster, which also contained a public school, and he asked for a certain explanation.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the only question for the Committee was, whether the existence of disease in the services justified exceptional legislation, that the Bill applied to places where either of the services constituted a considerable portion
 2178
 MR. HENLEY  instanced Staines and Egham as within five miles of Windsor, and not containing soldiers or sailors.
 MR. PERCY WYNDHAM  said, he had understood that the Bill was not to be publicly discussed—a decision which would not have been creditable to the modesty or common sense of the House. He had understood that it was to be referred to a Select Committee. The hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets had made statements which ought not to be allowed to go uncontradicted. It must be clear to everyone that the effect of the operation of the Bill would be to diminish expenditure considerably by reducing the number of men in hospital.
 MR. OTWAY  expressed a hope that the police of those boroughs to which the Bill applied would be ordered to exercise extreme caution; and that any laxity on their part would be visited with the severest punishment.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, that there was one consideration which ho thought ought not to be lost sight of, and that was the health of the Speaker. Many hon. Gentlemen were anxious to speak on this debate, but many of them must be contented to forego the temptation. The country must not be kept in suspense for an unlimited time in order that hon. Members might indulge their private feelings. He saw himself a whole "covey" of hon. Members get up during the evening, both below and above the gangway, each one endeavouring to catch the Speaker's eye. Well, those hon. Members must content themselves with waiting for another opportunity of addressing the House in a future stage of the Bill. He trusted that in any case the House would not be prevented from coming to a conclusion on the following night.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he has prepared Amendments to the Bill for the Abolition of Church rates; and, if so, when he proposes to lay them on the table of the House?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  would not undertake to lay down any rule, but would simply appeal to the Speaker to say whether his noble Friend was out of order or not. There was, however, no practical question at issue, for as far as he understood, the Government had no serious intention of precluding his noble Friend from speaking to-morrow evening. He presumed that the House would not feel inclined to adopt the
 2176
 MR. GRANT  rose to protest against the way in which the debate had been conducted. There were 180 new Members in the present House of Commons, only four or five of whom had addressed the House. It seemed to be understood that the debate was to close to-morrow night, and he supposed that none but official speakers would address the House to-morrow. Some hon. Members had addressed the House for two or three hours at a stretch, and this was not treating fairly those independent Members who had an equal right to express their sentiments.
 MR. LAYARD  replied that the Government had no reason to believe that there was any truth in the report of a raid of Italian volunteers on the Austrian territory, nor had they any reason to believe that the Emperor of Austria had refused to receive Count Arese and Signor Venosta.
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he did not see how, under the present arrangement, he should have an opportunity of addressing the House, as he desired to do. He would take that opportunity of preventing an erroneous impression which his Colleague had unfortunately created with respect to the conduct of both. The hon. Member had said that such would be the effect of this Bill upon the constituencies they represented that if it passed they would retire. It was perfectly true that the leasehold clause would create 5,000 new electors in the county, and the reduction of the franchise would add 3,500 to a constituency of 6,700. No doubt that was a large addition; but having so long represented North Warwickshire, and having polled a majority in Birmingham, he was not prepared to endorse the observation of his Colleague. He should certainly present himself for re-election.
 MR. SCHREIBER  said, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had added a new terror to the task, already sufficiently formidable, of those who ventured to address the House on the subject of Reform. Speaking at the Liberal banquet at Liverpool the right hon. Gentleman had described those hon. Members who, sitting on that side the House, had taken part in the discussion on the first reading, as either most ungovernable, or as being the most exuberant spirits from Ireland. He hoped the Irish Members would appreciate the compliment, and recognize the superior self-respect which was given by a Scotch extraction. He merely mentioned it in order that he might establish some claim to the attention of the House. Next to the portentous length of the speeches in this debate, nothing had struck, him so much as the unanimity with which all hon. Gentlemen desired in the vexed and weary question of Parliamentary Reform a comprehensive and equitable settlement as between the various interests and classes of the country. He trusted, therefore, it was not too much to hope that the majority of the House would be equally agreed in rejecting a measure which unsettled everything, which was fragmentary in its form, and which he should endeavour to prove would be most inequitable in its effects. As long as the boroughs of England and Wales returned a clear majority of the House of Commons, the chief interest of Reform must centre in the borough franchise. He might, perhaps, be permitted to offer the tribute of his humble admiration to the ingenuity which could devise a fresh act of injustice to the counties. With a larger population, with more numerous constituencies and a greater rental, they returned to this House less than half the number of the borough Members. It was now proposed to subject still further the rural to the urban interests, and then, in the scramble for the re-distribution of seats, to leave the counties dependent upon the charity of the towns. In this matter the counties seemed to be experiencing the proverbial treatment of the man who "has no friends." This Bill had been recommended by Her Majesty's Government and supported by the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. J. Stuart Mill) on the ground of its being a measure of working man enfranchisement. Now, he begged to call attention to the area of its operations. In the first place, Her Majesty's Government deliberately excluded from the scope of the
 2152 2153 2154 2155 "Just experience tells in every soil That those who think must govern those who toil; And all that Freedom's highest aims can reach Is but to lay proportioned load on each."
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that the Government, after consulting the Law Officers of the Crown, had come to the decision that the vacancy should not be filled up; and his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland thought it his duty, two months ago, to communicate his opinion that, in the event of a vacancy occurring, it should not be filled up.
 MR. JAMES  said, that considering the constituency he represented (Manchester), and the course he had adopted with regard to this Bill, he could not refrain from justifying himself in the eyes of the House and of his constituents. He had, on a previous occasion, made observations unfavourable to the course which it had pleased Her Majesty's Ministers to adopt with respect to the Reform measure, and he had clone so because it seemed to him that the course adopted was not likely to promote the interests of the country or to settle this question. Not that; he was unfavourable to Reform—much the other way. Manchester was, perhaps, as warmly interested in the passing of the Reform Bill as any other constituency in the country; and with the fact before him that a petition signed, or alleged to have been signed, by upwards of 70,000 persons in that city, in favour of this measure had been presented to the House, it might seem strange that he, the representative of a populous constituency, should have expressed such opinions. His right hon. and learned Friend the Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) in referring the other night to the opinion of Manchester ought to have appealed to his hon. Colleague in the representation of that city, from whom he would doubtless receive a more positive answer than he was in a position to give,
 2147 2148 2149 2150 Cheers and Laughter. pari passu,
 MR. MACEVOY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he is aware that the Midland Railway Company, having obtained an Act (27 & 28  Vict.
 MR. MACEVOY,  who had a notice of Motion on the paper for to-morrow relative to the payment of Medical Officers of Unions in Ireland, on going into Committee of Supply, stated his readiness to give way, in the hope that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would give him another day.
 MR. HUNT  thought it a great compliment to his noble Friend (Viscount Cranbourne) that the Treasury Bench appeared to be so exceedingly anxious to shut out his speech.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, as one of those to whom pertained the promises made to new Members the other evening, he asked the indulgence of the House while he stated the reasons which would induce him to give his support to the second reading of the Bill. In return for that indulgence, and in consideration for other new Members who were also desirous to address the House, he would promise to observe the utmost possible brevity. He had listened with close attention to all the speeches of hon. and right hon. Gentlemen, and the only conclusion to which he could arrive was that the object of the Amendment moved by the noble Lord (Earl Grosvenor) was clearly to shunt the question of Reform off the main line altogether, and to land it in a siding somewhere between Chester and King's Lynn. He had listened with pleasure to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne that night; but he was old enough to remember the passing of the Reform Bill of 1832, and he was struck with the similarity of the arguments of the right hon. Gentleman with those which were then put forward by Lord Eldon and other noble Lords who foresaw in a franchise of £10 the destruction of the Monarchy, the House of Lords, and the Church, and all the other evils which the vivid imagination of the right hon. Gentleman had conjured up against the present Bill. Let them consider the class of persons who would be practically enfranchised by the measure. Hon. Gentlemen need not alarm themselves that it would have the effect of enfranchising the class of persons whom they saw at the corners of the streets of the Seven Dials; nor the stalwart navvies with red handkerchiefs and nailed boots who made our railways; nor the miners of Cornwall, Stafford, and Durham; nor the hordes of Irish labourers who were to be found on the quays of Liverpool and Glasgow, and in all the great seaports and towns; nor, in a word, any of that class which, in common Parliamentary language, was designated as the dangerous class. On the contrary, it would admit the best of the skilled workmen—men who had distinguished themselves by great ingenuity, by great skill, by the most unshaken loyalty to the Throne, by the greatest self-command under circumstances of deprivation and distress, but who, in point of fact, had not existed at the passing of the Reform Bill of 1832. He asked the House to consider for a moment the extraordinary
 2128 2129 2130
 MR. SANDFORD  would remind the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the rules of debate were not laid down by him, but by the right hon. Gentleman in the chair. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought proper to say that his noble Friend (Viscount Cranbourne) had no right to speak again, because he had
 2175 Cries of
 MR. HODGKINSON  said, that if the Amendment moved by the noble Lord the Member for Chester were judged of simply by its natural meaning, it might be presumed to proceed from a section of the advanced Liberal party, disappointed to find that the Government Bill only embraced one branch of the subject; but judging from the arguments by which it was supported, the conclusion seemed irresistible that it had been cunningly framed for the purpose of catching the votes of the waverers, and likewise of that class of Reformers who obtained seats in Parliament on the faith of their pledges with respect to this question, but yet who were so lukewarm in their allegiance that they were perfectly prepared to "break the word of promise to the hope" if any means could be devised by which they could "keep it to the ear." He could, nevertheless, tell this latter class of persons that, however much they might compound with their consciences and delude themselves, they
 2119 2120 2121 2122
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If Her Majesty's Government have received any information with regard to the alleged raid of Italian Volunteers on the Austrian territory; and whether this fact has anything to do with the temporary refusal of the Emperor of Austria to receive Count Arese and Signor Venosta?
 MR. CHILDERS  stated, with reference to the property required for the extension of the Post Office, that it was necessary to acquire the freehold within a limited period after the passing of the Act, but it was not necessary to acquire minor interests at once.
 MR. CHILDERS : I hope that I need not apologize to the House for intruding myself upon them in the present discussion. I have only once previously spoken upon questions of popular representation, but I may, I think be excused if I do so in the present instance; because not only the county from which I come, and where I represent a borough (Ponte-fract), containing a considerable number of the working classes, has expressed itself more strongly, I believe, than any other county on the subject, but also because I spent several years of my life in one of the most flourishing of our colonies—I mean Victoria—which has been alluded to both this evening and in previous debates. I trust that, as one who took some share in the Government of that colony, and who had a part in the preparation of the Constitutional Act under which her Government is now regulated, I may be allowed to set the House right with respect to some erroneous statements which have never yet received an answer. I shall have to speak of the Australian colonies generally, but I wish to allude specially to the colony of Victoria, of which I have the
 2156 "So determined are they In Victoria to maintain a protective system that they would not allow a Bill to pass intended to remedy the inequality of the sexes;" 2157 "You know what sort of men Haines, Sladen, Farie, Sturt, Stawell, Macknight, and others of the same stamp are. Well, under vote by ballot and universal suffrage there is not one of these, except Haines (and some men always get in), that would have a ghost of a chance with the lowest ruffian, and he appealed to the hon. Member for Salisbury whether that was a correct representation of the facts. [Mr. MARSH: Hear, hear!]" "In Australia it is sought to have the rules of I trade enforced by law. Recent intelligence stated that a deputation from the iron trade had urged upon the Government the desirability of adopting the eight hours' movement among those engaged in that trade at Melbourne. …. Looking, on the other hand, to Australia, where he had many very dear friends, with a beautiful country and an unrivalled climate, what did he find to be the case? Corruption of the grossest kind prevailed in the political system. At one time certain persons in the colony wished to carry a particular point, they accordingly raised a large sum and wont round to those Members of the Assembly who they heard were determined to I vote against the project, and to some of them they gave £10, while the greatest patriot of all found his patriotism oozing out of his fingers'
 2158 2159 2160 2161 2162 "After the citizens of Sydney had done him the honour to elect him as their representative, he had stated that he should always be ready to seek for an extension of the franchise …. He could not bring his mind to the belief that universal suffrage would be beneficial …. They (the meeting) did not ask for universal suffrage, and in all that they did ask he most cordially agreed, for he thought their demands very moderate. They did not even go so far as what was asked by their fellow-countrymen at home. A great and growing feeling in favour of household suffrage was spreading in Great Britain, and was warmly advocated in Parliament by Hume and Cobden, and by many other Members of great weight and influence …. When he was elected he told them that he wished to see the working class powerful …. If he thought that the franchise could enable the working classes to saddle any of their burdens on the necks of the people at large he would oppose it …. He should say nothing about the effect of universal suffrage in France, although he could not agree that universal suffrage had altogether failed in France. The disasters which had befallen France had not arisen from universal suffrage …. He wished to give all classes power to make each dependent on the other, so that they might work together for the common good." 2163 "… He could respect the feeling which induced such a remark, but he could not agree with it. He would not ask them to be rash, but he must remind them that they were in the beginning of a great struggle, and, in order that they should go through that struggle successfuly, he would have the example of America constantly in their minds. The injustice that was forced on the Americans was not half so great as that forced on this colony, and he, therefore, felt it his duty to tell them, if they would succeed at all, they must assure the Colonial Office continually that they had the example of America before them." "The parade of military protection was kept up, because it provided berths for the sons and dependents of great men at home." "It was the  vis inertiœ 2164 2165 "They think that if two measures were brought forward at the same time, one of two things would happen—that the scheme for the re-distribution of seats, through not being sufficiently comprehensive, would disappoint and disgust some of the warmest supporters of the Government, and make them indifferent to the fate of the whole Bill; or, that if the scheme for disfranchisement were a large one, the Members of those constituencies affected by it would be inclined to vote against both divisions of the Bill, and thus the whole measure might be defeated." "For my part, I only wonder that a device so transparent should have been deemed to be worth the trouble of adopting. It seems to me to be, after all, very artless art." "I am not going to enter upon the argument whether these small boroughs (fifty, sixty, seventy, or eighty), whatever incidental advantages they may possess, ought or ought not to form a permanent part of our political system. I admit that it appears to me difficult, if not impossible, to defend them on grounds of principle as part of our Constitution. But I look at the matter in a
 2166 "was not to make the best Bill that could be framed, but the best that had a chance of passing this House, I contend that that fact is in itself a sufficient vindication of the course we have followed." "But there is another point of view from which the question of identical suffrage in counties and boroughs may be considered. By adopting it as a principle the disfranchisement of small and decayed boroughs—ultimately inevitable as new towns arise to be represented—becomes at once less important and less difficult. Under a system of uniform suffrage the only result of disfranchisement is to transfer the votes of the boroughs disfranchised into the county. Both the demand for enfranchisement would be greatly diminished and the fear of disfranchisement greatly decreased, and thus a partial solution would be offered of a question which has given, and may again give, rise to a great deal of agitation." 2167 2168 2169 "He objected to the Bill because of its democratic tendency; for if once it were carried into effect, they would have a King by name with less influence than a President of the United States; and a House of Lords so intimidated as that they would lose the whole of that wholesome influence to which their rank, their wealth, and inheritance so justly entitled them. When the Peerage once lost its influence, then would a democracy decidedly prevail." "If the Bill were allowed to become law then the present form of Government could not long exist, it must necessarily pass, and that by hasty strides, into a republic, and the transit would be accompanied with the most calamitous consequences to the country. Year after year you would have some new inroad—first on the Church, then property, then the funds. How could you get law officers? A man of such a mind could not stoop to the artifices of the hustings. How could he engage in an unpopular prosecution?" "If this Bill passed into law, it would destroy the landed interest entirely, and with the landed interest it would destroy also the interest of the Church." "The House of Commons to be elected by the new measure would possess prerogatives without power and privileges, without daring So exercise them. Sovereignty would be an empty name; good order and Government, and an organized state of society unmeaning sounds." "A preponderating influence in the election of the House of Commons is conferred upon the lowest class of inhabitants in towns … The metropolis is virtually consigned to universal suffrage …. The Government cannot fail to become a mere democracy—or if the name and form of a monarchy be preserved, all that could give independence to the Sovereign, or protection to the subject, will be really excluded." 2170 "Its great defect, in my opinion, is this—that it severs all connection between the lower classes of the community and the direct representation in this House. I think it a fatal objection that every link between the representative and the constituent body should be separated as far as regards the lower classes. What will be the effect of cutting off altogether the communication between this House and all that class of society which is above pauperism and below the arbitrary and impassable line of £10 rental? Even if you were establishing a perfectly new system of representation, and were unfettered by the recollections of the past, and by existing modes of society, would it be wise to exclude altogether the sympathy of this class? To subject a great, powerful, jealous, and intelligent mass of your population to the injury, aye, and to the stigma of exclusion." 2171 Sat cito si sat bene 2172 Bis dat qui cito dat.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether,
 2076
 MR. WYLD,  as one of the Members whose boroughs were scheduled in every
 2173
 MR. SPEAKER : Reference having been made to myself, I may be permitted to say that I am extremely obliged to the House for its consideration; but my health is now so much restored that I am perfectly ready to go on with the debate if that should be the wish of the House.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether his attention has been called to the fact that the wreck of the  City of New York, City of New York
 MR. J. STUART MILL  said: I wish to correct the last assertion of my right hon. Friend. I never imputed to hon. Gentlemen in this House, or to the landed interest, that they were wilfully wrong.
 MR. R. W. DUFF  said, he thought that those Members sitting on the Ministerial side of the House who, like himself, did; not intend to support the Government on the second reading of this Bill, owed it to their constituents, and after what had taken place in the course of the debate owed it to themselves, that they should state the reasons which induced them to adopt that line of conduct. The Government had introduced a Franchise Bill, and the noble Lord the Member for Chester had proposed an Amendment to the effect that it was not expedient to deal with that question by instalments. Under those circumstances it appeared to him that the point they had to consider was, not the amount of Reform they should sanction, but the manner in which they were asked to deal with the subject. The Government had announced that if the House agreed to the Amendment they would treat such an expression of opinion as a Vote of Want of Confidence in the present Administration. He was sorry that they had come to that conclusion,
 2143 from the Treasury Bench. from the Treasury Bench. 2144 "Upon an argument used by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), that a Member who makes pledges on the hustings to his constituents, if, on coming to Parliament, he finds the promises he has given prejudicial to the public good, ought not to feel bound by those pledges." "That a person was returned as representing a certain set of principles, and if he deserted those principles it must have a mischievous and demoralizing effect upon the country, and must lower the confidence and trust the constituencies ought to have in their representatives in Parliament." 2145 "It appears to mo that the object we ought all to have in view is to form a legislative machine in which all interests in the country shall be fairly represented. The two leading interests of this country are, on the one hand, the trading and the commercial interests, and on the other the agricultural interest; and any alteration of our system which tends to introduce too largely the trading and commercial, or the town, element into the agricultural, or country element, would, I think, injuriously disturb the balance which it is essential for the interests of the country that we should maintain. … It is plain to every man, I think, who attends at all to the indications of public opinion in this House and in the country, that there does not exist at the present moment in this House or out of it the same interest in such changes as existed some time since. The fact is that organic changes have been looked to not as a mere end so much as a means to an end. They were looked to as a means of effecting great alterations and improvements in our internal system, our commercial system, our laws, procedure, and other matters. Many of those improvements have been made. Commerce has been freed from its shackles, the industry of the country has been encouraged by liberty, and many of those alterations and improvements which were to be the result of organic changes have been accomplished by the Legislature as it stands; and therefore there is a less ardent desire for change than existed before those improvements were made."—[3  Hansard, 2146
 MR. LOWE : I may remark that I suppose no one in this House would have any objection to working men coming here if the constituencies wished to send them. They can do so now if they like, and, therefore, we need not take up time in arguing the point, because I am sure that whenever the constituencies may think proper to send working men here, we shall receive those representatives properly, and listen to them with respect. But my hon. Friend told us of the subjects which the working classes might wish to debate here. He referred to "the right of labour." That sounds very like the right "to" labour of which we heard in 1848. Are we to have the doctrines of Fourier and St. Simon discussed here? We are told that in so doing we shall educate the working man. I protest against this. We are here to legislate for this country, and if we look after the executive Government pretty sharply—if we take care of our finance—and if we watch the Foreign Office, we shall be doing better than we should do by converting this House into an academy or a gymnasium for the instruction even of the  élite 2100 "Working men have associations; they can get up formidable strikes against capital—sometimes
 2101 "We present you with the wishes of our trade union, requesting a reply on or before Saturday next:—Mr. Thomas and all non-society plasterers to be discharged; all non-society carpenters and improvers to be discharged; piecework to be abolished, &c.—On behalf of the United Building Trades. "JOHN BARY, Chairman." 2102 "The tailors' strike may now be considered at an end, the men having agreed to accept the London 'log,' with payment at the rate of 5½ d. s. "Working overtime, tending to our general injury by keeping members out of employment, shall be abolished, excepting in case of accident or necessity," "It is also requested that lodges harassed by piecework or sub-contracting, do apply at a reasonable time for a grant to abolish it." "In localities where that most obnoxious and destructive system generally known as 'chasing'
 2103 2104 2105 2106 2107 lene tormentum 2108 2109 d'etat, 2110 pays legal, 2111 "To see a process going forward in which the Throne has acquired broader and deeper foundations in the affections of the country; in which the law has commended itself more and more to the respect and attachment of the people; in which the various classes of the community have come into close communion the one with the other; in which the great masses of our labouring fellow-countrymen have come to be better supplied than they were in the time of their immediate forefathers, and in which upon the whole, a man desirous of the welfare of his kind, looking out on the broad surface of society, may thank his
 2112 2113 quasi 2114 2115 Life of Jefferson, "In bad years there is plenty of grumbling here, and sometimes a little rioting; but it matters little, for here the sufferers are not the rulers. The supreme power is in the hands of a class, numerous indeed, but select—of an educated class—of a class which is and knows itself to be deeply interested in the security of property and the maintenance of order." "It is quite plain that your Government will never be able to restrain a distressed and discontented majority, for with you the majority is the Government, and has the rich, who are always a minority, absolutely at its mercy. The day will come when in the State of New York a multitude of people, not one of whom has had more than half a breakfast, or expects to have more than half a dinner, will choose a Legislature." "Is it possible to doubt what sort of Legislature will be chosen? On one side is a statesman preaching patience, respect for vested rights, strict observance of public faith. On the other is a demagogue ranting about the tyranny of capitalists and usurers, and asking why anybody should be permitted to drink champagne and to ride in a carriage, while thousands of honest folks are in want of necessaries. Which of the two candidates is likely to be preferred by the working man who hears his children crying for more bread? I seriously apprehend that you will, in some such season of adversity as I have described, do things which will prevent prosperity from returning. Either some Cæsar or Napoleon will seize the reins of government with a strong hand, or your Republic will be as fearfully plundered and laid waste by barbarians in the 20th century as the Roman Empire was in the fifth; with this difference, that the Huns and Vandals who ravaged the Roman Empire came from without, and that your Huns and Vandals will have been engendered within your own country and by your own institutions." 2116 2117 2118 "Arduus armatos mediis in mœnibus adstans Fundit equus, victorque Sinon incendia miscet Insultans: portis alii bipatentibus adsunt, Millia quot magnis nunquam venêere Mycenis." "The fatal horse pours forth the human tide, Insulting Sinon flings his firebrands wide, The gates are burst; the ancient rampart falls, And swarming millions climb its crumbling walls."
 MR. LOWE  said: Sir, as we are now on the second reading of the Bill for reducing the electoral franchise, it is not inopportune to ask, what is the principle of the Bill. Our information on that subject at the present moment is very meagre. We have heard from my right hon. Friend
 2078 2079 "Whereas the elections of knights of shires have now of late been made by too great and excessive number of people, either of small substance or of no value, whereof every one of them pretended to have a voice equivalent as to making such elections with the most worthy knights and squires dwelling within the same county." 2080 s. 2081 2082 2083 2084 "Whatever the pain it may cost, It is time we should each say adieu; For your confidence in us is lost, And we've not got sufficient for two." 2085 pari passu, 2086 2087 argumentum ad homines 2088 s. d. s. d. s. d. 2089 2090 rechauffe "Habes pretium non pasces in cruce corvos," "Cruoi non flgeris." 2091 2092 Reynard the Fox. 2093 2094 2095 2096 2097 Political Economy. "The only objection to which any great importance will be found to be attached, in the present edition, is the unprepared state of mankind in general, and of the labouring classes in particular; their extreme unfitness at present for any order of things which would make any considerable demand on either their intellect or their virtue." Representative Government, "I regard it as wholly inadmissible that any person should participate in the suffrage without, being able to read, write, and, I will add, perform the common operations of arithmetic. Universal teaching must precede universal enfranchisement. No one but those in whom an  àa priori 2098 à priori 2099
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, my attention has not recently been called to the fact that the wreck of the  City of New York City of New York
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that it was true that the Customs authorities of New Shoreham had strict orders to seize and destroy all oysters brought into that port from the deep-sea beds, in the seas between the United Kingdom and France, between the 1st of May and the 31st of August, as required by the Act the 18 & 19  Vict. Vict.
 MR. ALLEN  said, he was desirous of saying a few words upon the measure before the House, because he believed that he had a better claim to the title of a working man's representative than any other hon. Member, for the working men formed a principal portion of the constituency of the borough he had the honour to represent (Newcastle-under-Lyne). He quite agreed with the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) that the House of Commons was at present admirably constituted—he would go further, and say it was the first representative assembly in the world. But what was the reason it could claim that high distinction? It was because it was in the main the correct representative of the feelings and opinions of the nation. He held it necessary, if it was to maintain that high position, that it should reform itself, and become more fully than it was now the reflex of the opinions of the people. The great principle to be arrived at in this question of Reform was to adapt the House of Commons more fully to the present times. He also felt that it was a question no longer to be trifled with; and he therefore could not agree with the Amendment, which he considered
 2135 s.
 MR. DAVENPORT BROMLEY  said, he should have been happy to give a silent vote on this occasion, but the constituency which he had the honour to represent (North Warwickshire) was far too much interested in the question to
 2136 2137 2138
 MR. FERRAND  said, he rose to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will pledge himself to withdraw the sixteenth clause, disfranchising the S dockyard electors, in the event of the Representation of the People Bill being read a second time?
 MR. WATKIN  suggested that the Motion of adjournment should be to twelve o'clock on Friday, and that if the health of the Speaker would not allow him to take the chair at that time, his place might be filled by the Deputy Speaker.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the hon. Gentleman was quite in error. If the question of adjournment had been put from the Chair the noble Lord was entitled to speak upon that Question, and to speak again in the debate. But if an hon. Member rose to move the adjournment of the debate, and prefaced that Motion by a speech upon the Main Question, then his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer was right in saying that he had no right to speak again. If his hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, for example, had moved the adjournment of the debate when he sat down, would it be contended that it would be competent to him to resume the debate at five o'clock to-morrow? The noble Lord had objected to certain statements made by his hon. Friend, and had concluded by moving the adjournment. It must therefore be regarded that the noble Lord has made his speech, and has no right to begin the debate to-morrow evening.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he had made inquiries on the subject, and he found that by the Act the Railway Company were compelled to make a tunnel twelve feet below the surface of the churchyard. An application had been made to the Church Trustees to allow an open cutting to pass through the churchyard, but the Church Trustees had refused to sanction any deviation from the terms of the Act, and he believed the Company were prepared to acquiesce in the decision of the Church Trustees.
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State
 2074
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is true that the Customs authorities of New Shoreham have strict orders to seize and destroy all oysters brought into that port from the deep sea beds between the 30th April and the 1st September, but that no such orders have been issued in respect of ports north of the North Foreland; and that, in fact, oysters taken from the same beds are landed at those ports during the above period; if so, on what principle this distinction is made, as the words of the Act 18 & 19  Vict.
 VISCOUNT ROYSTON  said, he should state his opinion frankly on this question of Reform, although by doing so he might expose himself to the taunts of hon. Members on the Ministerial side. He would, in the first place, enter his protest against the cry too often raised against Gentlemen who sat on his side of the House, and belonged to the great Conservative party, that they were adverse to popular freedom. Speaking for the first time, and as a young man, no one could charge him with any dislike or fear of the working classes. Considering how much those in high station tried to serve the working classes, he thought it was an unfair—an ignoble—cry to raise that the gentry of England were in any sense adverse to the working classes. In his opinion the great object of Reform in this country was, or ought to be, to make the House of Commons a more perfect representation of the English people. The question was, would the present Bill have that effect? Some hon. Members thought that a reduction of the franchise to £7 in boroughs and £14 in counties would bring about that object—others thought not. It was a point upon which difference of opinion might well exist. He did not say that those who opposed the Bill would oppose all measures of Parliamentary Reform; but it was a curious fact that every measure of Reform brought in during the last fourteen years had either died out or been thrown out by the wish of the great majority of the House. It would not be un-instructive to inquire whether this question of Reform had not been usually raised up for certain objects—such as keeping Government in office, or retaining them in office, or for some party or personal use or consideration. He believed that on the present occasion the sole object of raising the question was for the purpose of propping up the Ministerial Bench, and keeping in office those who, feeling the loss they had sustained in the death of the great and excellent statesman lately at the head of the Government, were obliged to bring this question before the country, so as to excite popular feeling on their behalf. With a majority of more than sixty in their favour at the beginning of the Session they brought forward a measure of Reform,
 2131 A laugh. "I bring, I say, no accusation against the working classes. I would withhold from them nothing which it might be for their good to possess. I see with pleasure that by the provisions of the Reform Bill the most industrious and respectable of our labourers will be admitted to a share in the Government of the State. If I would refuse to the working people that larger share of power which some of them have demanded, I would refuse it because I am convinced that by giving it I should only increase their distress. I admit that the end of Government is their happiness—but that they may be governed for their happiness, they must not be governed according to the doctrines which they have learnt from their illiterate, incapable, low-minded flatterers." 2132 The Times "Oh ye gods and little fishes, What's a man without his breeches?" "He doth bestride the narrow world like a Colossus, And we petty men walk under his huge legs, And peep about and find ourselves dishonourable graves." 2133 "If the Ministry have to go out upon Reform, we (the Opposition) should have to construct our new Government upon that question. We should have to propose a larger measure of Reform; but can we carry it? Nothing, as I said before, can justify a Minister proposing a large measure of Reform except the certainty that he has the strength to carry it. Has the noble Lord that certainty? Popular support failed him in 1854. Has he more assurance of that popular support in 1859?"—[3  Hansard, 2134 "And, be it remembered, he will have before him a more compact and formidable Opposition, the contest will be embittered by the contemptuous rejection of this Bill, and the Opposition, if it chose to use Parliamentary Reform as an instrument of embarrassment, may allege that you have furnished them both with a precedent and provocation."—[3  Hansard,
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  rose to resume the debate. [An hon. MEMBER rose to Order. The noble Lord had already spoken on this Question.] A word has reached me from the other side, which I shall be happy to deal with first. The course I took last night was with the full conviction that I was acting in accordance with the rules of the House. But, however that may be, I shall be prepared to argue the point on a future occasion, and I believe it was agreed that at present no further action with respect to it should be taken. In dealing with the question before the House, the first feeling which must press on the mind of every person who advocates the Amendment to this Bill is that of a desire to rid himself from certain odious charges, which it has been the policy of the supporters of the Bill to bring against all those who oppose it. It was said very justly by the noble Lord the Member for Haddingtonshire that defamation of opponents was one of the main engines by which the Bill was supported. I wish therefore, before I go into the Bill, to deal with these imputations which have been so freely made, especially by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Before entering into the discussion of this Bill, it appears to be necessary that we should make our confession of faith with respect to the working men. The Chancellor of
 7 8 9 10 11 pari passu "Allowing for full and free discussion regarding the subject, we could not expect that the two portions of it would be dealt with, and still less of the other portions of it, within the ordinary and usual duration of the Session. But, beyond that, I have stated, as is well known, that we for our parts, from motives of duty, decline to proceed with any other part of the subject until the fate of the Franchise Bill is determined. When
 12 pari passu pari passu 13 pari passu, 14 15 16
 MR. BRIGHT : I said, that in that way you might destroy popular representation.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Exactly so; and you would do the other thing. You
 17 18 19 20 21 22 "For 800 years the Lordlings had ruled them, and had ruled them with a rod of iron. They had accumulated millions. The Marquess of Westminster and Lord Stanley had thousands of acres, while those who worked for their living could not get a foot of ground. Under the laws of Master and Servant, whilst they had doubled the income of the country the working men had not benefited in any fair proportion. Well, they were afraid that by this Bill the working men would get in, which he believed would be the case. Mr. Bligh seconded the resolution, maintaining that capital was the overplus of labour, and that as the working men had produced it they ought to have it shared amongst them; that they had created £800,000,000 in one year, and only got £200,000,000 for their share." "Mr. Finlen trusted they would never cease to insist on having a Reform Bill from the House of Commons which would enable every man un-convicted of crime to have a vote in the election of a Member of Parliament. He believed the Government could not have done a better thing than bring in a Bill pure and simple as they had done. It was true it did not go far, but it went as far as the House of Commons seemed likely to let it, for he believed the House of Commons would have gone stark staring mad if any clause had been introduced into that Bill for the re-distribution of seats. Mr. Bradlaugh, in seconding the resolution, said that was the second of a series of meetings which would have to be held in order to show the Houses of Parliament that the working classes of England, although they knew that that Bill by itself would be of very little good to them, were ready to support any Bill which would advance that Reform for which they were striving. He was of opinion that every man had a right to enjoy the franchise in the country where he was born. This Bill was only one step in the scale, and there would be very few Sessions allowed to pass without another Bill being introduced which would go a great deal further. Let them firmly make up their minds that the smaller measures contained in the present Bill should only be the stepping-stones to the grand staircase, and they would succeed." "That the council, while strictly adhering to the principle of manhood suffrage as the only just, sound, permanent, and satisfactory basis of representation for this country, deems it its duty to give its cordial support to the measure of Reform now before Government as tending to the object the League has in view." 23 24
 CAPTAIN GROSVENOR : Sir, the noble Lord who has just sat down has been eloquent and incisive, but he has not been persuasive—at least he has not persuaded me; for I do not feel able now, any more than I did before he rose, conscientiously to vote for the Amendment which is before the House; hut although I cannot do this, it would ill become me either to disparage the intentions of its author, or to impugn the motives of hon. Gentlemen on this side of the House whose view of their political obligations is at variance with mine; and although it will be difficult for me to refrain from adverting to that which has fallen from them, it is to hon. Gentlemen opposite in particular that I wish to ad-
 25 26 27 28 29 Idylls of the King, 30 31
 MR. DAWSON  said, he would beg to ask the hon. and learned Member for Sligo, Whether in the Marriages (Ireland) (No. 2) Bill, to be read a second time upon Tuesday, 1st May, any provision is contained which would legalize the celebration of marriage between two Protestants by a clergyman of the Roman Catholic Church?
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, the right hon. Member for Calne had yesterday reminded the House that he had nothing to say to the arguments of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and he (The O'Donoghue) would venture to tell the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne that the House had nothing to do with his arguments. The Royal word of the Sovereign had been several times pledged to the un-
 35 36 37 38 39 bonâ fide 40 41 42
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The probable increase would he about 50,000.
 MR. R. J. HARVEY  said, that as an independent Member he had pledged him-
 69
 MR. LOCKE KING  said, that having frequently addressed the House on an important branch of the subject, he thought it right to say a few words on this occasion. He could not help expressing his regret that the opposition to this Bill had originated from his side of the House; for, in spite of what had been said to the contrary, he was of opinion that the measure was an honest, a straightforward, and a moderate one. He regretted, therefore, that a noble Earl, having a name which was well remembered in that House, and so highly respected by the whole Liberal party as having been borne by a relative of the noble Earl, who had represented the great county of Middlesex, should have consented to play the game of hon. Gentlemen opposite. He thought it would have been better for the noble Earl, if instead of leading those hon. Gentlemen, he had allowed them to play their own game. It was a matter they must all regret to find that the noble Earl had been the means of causing what he must call a split to a small extent on the Ministerial side of the House. The Amendment was very cunningly worded—it was worded with the view of catching the support of a large number of the Liberals, but by accident—he said "accident" advisedly, for they had been told that no Tory had had anything to do with its composition—the whole of the party opposite, with two or three exceptions, were ready to vote for it. He had had a great deal to do, from time to time, with this franchise question, and he must say that of all the expedients made use of in connection with that question the present was the most extraordinary one ever resorted to. When he brought forward his County Franchise Bill every excuse and—if he might use the word—dodges of all descriptions had been made use of to put off the question; but he had little expected to find that those who from all their antecedents might be supposed to be against Reform should oppose this measure on the ground that it was confined to a simple extension of the franchise. He, who had opposed Bills which only went to an extension of the franchise, could not now come and say that he wanted a more comprehensive measure, and refuse to support this Bill on that ground alone. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Oxford had entered into a long argument to show that this House
 73 74
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : At last, Sir, we have obtained a clear declaration from an authoritative source; and we now know that a Bill which in a country with five millions of adult males—["Oh, oh!" "Hear, hear!" and cries of hear!"and renewed cries of 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130 pauperis formâ. "Ejectum littore egentem Accepi— "Et regni demons in parte locavi." 131 132 133 134 135 136 137 138 139 140 Cheers. and" 141 Much laughter. 142 "Let us die in the daylight." 143 144 145 "The working people have been having a less and less share in the representation. They had a considerable representation before 1832, through the scot-and-lot voters and the freemen. I am not going to say anything either for or against the freemen; but through them the working class had their voice in the representation. They are gradually dying out."—[3  Hansard, 146 147 Ut pueris placeas et declamatio fias. 148 149 pari passu, 150 Cheers. 151 152 "Exoriare aliquis nostris ex ossibus ultor."
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  said, that the stress laid by all advocates of the Bill upon Parliamentary pledges in favour of Reform had been effectually removed by the argument, so constantly in the mouths of hon. Gentlemen opposite, that no Parliament had power to pledge its successors to any particular line of action. If any instance were needed of the fallacy of pledges it might be supplied from the career of the Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, who in the year 1853 committed Parliament to a declaration that the income tax should be abolished in 1860, and afterwards, having the power in his hands, not only failed to carry out that pledge, but actually induced the House to double the amount. It was urged as a reason why Reform measures should be divided now, that complete schemes of Reform had failed on former occasions. But surely Ministers had not rightly interpreted the experience of the past. Because these measures had
 70 71 s. d. s. 72
 MR. GRANT : This estimate by some unhappy chance was now forthcoming. But could there be a valid reason for the Government, in proposing to legislate for the Amendment of the constitution, not placing their whole scheme before the consideration of the House? The present measure proposed to lower the franchise to £7 in boroughs, and to £14 in counties; it proposed all sorts of things as to rating and other details; and it said, "Commit yourself to that, and then we will show you what else we intend to do." He said, let them see the whole Bill at once. The right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, said the second reading of the Bill was only the affirmation of a principle. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Hear, hear!] The right hon. Gentleman said, "hear, hear!" He therefore re-echoed the sentiment. Why, then,
 46 Warren's Blackstone. per se 47 in toto ad captandum 48 "Should man the open palm extend, Woo thee with words and call thee friend, Praise thee for merits not thine own— Condemn thy foes their faults unknown, Shrink from that man, avoid him, fly— Friendship like love can mask and lie."
 MR. GRANT  desired to express his sentiments on this great question. This was a question that had been asked by almost every Member who had spoken in support of the Amendment—namely, why had Her Majesty's Government introduced this Bill? They had not had a satisfactory reply. An answer was given last evening by the hon. Member for Chatham, and it was vehemently cheered by the occupants of the Treasury Benches. He said the Bill was introduced in fulfilment of pledges made by Members of the Government. He asked himself, and he asked the House, to whom those pledges were given? The hon. Gentleman said the pledges were given by the Cabinet on coming into power after Lord Derby in 1859. He asked hon. Members if the Government had now fulfilled the pledges they had then given? On that subject he would bring before the House the authority of an hon. Gentleman who was now in the confidence of Her Majesty's Government, and the House could then form an opinion whether the only pledge that might really be pleaded was the pledge to which the hon. Member for Chatham referred. The passage he would call attention to was from the address of the hon. Member for Birmingham to his constituents in June last. The hon. Gentleman was then speaking of his present allies, and he said the Cabinet climbed into office under the pretence of their devotion to the question of Parliamentary Reform;
 43 44 45
 MR. DISRAELI   presented 5
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker—Before I address myself to the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Chester, I would make one remark upon the reasons put forth for the introduction of the Government measure. They are two-fold—Parliamentary pledges and Ministerial promises: the first must be fulfilled; the second have been violated. Now, Sir, the House should be cautious in accepting some views upon this head of the subject which have been advanced in the course of this debate. They are touching on very dangerous ground. Hitherto the freedom of Parliament has been the boast of our predecessors. But the freedom of Parliament did not mean merely freedom of discussion or freedom from arrest; it meant, above all other privileges, liberty of legislation. When we hear of Parliament being pledged, are we, then, to understand that the conduct of a preceding Parliament is to deprive us of the enjoyment of the highest and most exalted of our functions? Why, Sir, in this country great authorities upon this subject have been so jealous of any attempt upon the liberty of legislation enjoyed by Parliament, that they have even maintained that with such a Constitution as that of England no such thing as a fundamental law can be recognized, and that such muniments must be sought for only in Imperial chanceries.
 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 pari passu 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 "That the Ministry has unwisely introduced and most unscrupulously forwarded a measure which threatens not only to change the form of our Government, but ultimately to break up the very foundations of social order, as well as materially to forward the views of those who press these projects throughout the civilized world." 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 s s 103 104 105 106 107 and Cheers. 108 109 110 111 and Cheers.' 112 "This change and that growing and constantly increasing capacity which we see constitute not only a fitness, but in a moral sense constitute a right." 113 "You may talk of the rudeness of Monarchical Government, but I defy you to point out anything in Monarchy so irrational as counting votes, instead of weighing them, as making a decision depend not on the knowledge, ability, experience, or fitness of the judges, but upon their number."
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said: I am per-fectly aware that we are drawing near to the close of this protracted and important debate. I will therefore state what I have to say upon the question before the House in the fewest possible words. I join most heartily in the tribute which has been paid by the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines) to the merits, the virtues, and the progress of the working classes. It would, Sir, indeed, be most singular if, as a county Member, one of the 160 Members of this House who endeavour to represent the majority of the working classes in this country, I should fail in appreciating those high qualities which I have seen tried and tested in periods not only of prosperity, but of adversity. Sir, I have seen the working classes under the temptations of violence; I have seen them tried when they might have been misled by the arguments and incitements, not only of what may be termed Radical, but Chartist orators; and, in my humble capacity, I do most heartily bear my unfeigned testimony to the merits, to the virtues, to the common sense, and, in many cases, to the acquirements of the working classes. But I should be doing an injustice to the hon. Member for Leeds (Mr. Baines), and I should be doing an injustice to the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Locke King) who sit3 behind him, if I failed to object to the Bill now before the House in the form in which it has been presented to the House, because I have voted against the mere reduction of the county franchise when it has been proposed by the hon. Member for East Surrey, and I have voted against the mere reduction of the borough franchise when it has been proposed by the hon. Member for Leeds. And, as I am one of those who are not ashamed of being consistent, I feel it my duty, as a matter of consistency, to give my vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Chester (Earl Gros-
 61 "That the duty of this House is vigilance in preference to secrecy, and deliberation in preference to dispatch." "Not yielding to the fear of differing with the authority of leaders on the one hand, and of contradicting the desires of the multitude on the other, which induces them (Members of Parliament) to give a careless and facile assent to measures as to which they have never been consulted; and thus things proceed by a sort of activity of inertness until whole bodies, leaders, middlemen, and followers, are all hurried with every appearance and with many of the effects of unanimity into schemes of politics in the substance of which no two of them are fully agreed, and the origin and authors of which, in this circular mode of communication, none of them find it possible to trace." 62 63 64 65
 MR. BUTLER-JOHNSTONE  said, that he had listened with attention to the eloquent address of the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just resumed his seat, and observed his strictures on the able and convincing address of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn (Lord Stanley). When, however, he should have taken the trouble to cut out the speech of the hon. and gallant Member, and wrap it up and tie it round in paper, he confessed that he should docket it in a different manner from that in which the speech of the noble Lord was docketed. The hon. and gallant Member for Westminster had borrowed an argument from the speech of his hon. Colleague (Mr. J. Stuart Mill), who confessed that a great part of the speech of the noble Lord was unanswerable. Now the hon. and gallant Gentleman said the same thing—that a great deal of the speeeh was unanswerable. He further expressed himself somewhat to this effect:—"I am going to answer the rest; to show you how much the noble Lord has omitted, how much further he ought to have gone, and that though a large part of the noble Lord's speech was true, a larger part was untrue. You must not think I am a novice; I have studied the history of my country, I have studied the politics of the day, and, fortified with this historic knowledge, and the penny press so much read by the working classes, I shall point out to the noble Lord where his logical argument fails. But I am going to do more," said the hon. and gallant Gentleman, "I am going to make a confession of faith of a rather tender nature, for it is the confession of virgin affection; and you must not be surprised if it calls forth emotion in my mind. Even if I should shed tears there is nothing unmanly in that." He (Mr. Butler-Johnstone) had tried to turn a strong light on the object of this virgin affection, and what had he found it to be? Why, the hon. and gallant Gentleman had fallen in love with the working classes of the country. There need be no wonder at that, because the hon. and gal-
 32 x. x. 33 34
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether he has received information that the provinces of Friesland and Groningen are entirely free from the Rinderpest; and, if so, whether it is his intention to take steps to modify the existing restrictions on the importation of cattle and sheep from those provinces?
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  could not hope to offer anything new on the subject under discussion, but desired to give his reasons for supporting the Amendment. In doing so he could not do better than quote the words of the hon. and gallant Member (Captain Grosvenor), who said, "he was in favour of a judicious extension of the suffrage, but opposed to a monopoly of political power." He contended, however, that it was the Conservatives who were in favour of a judicious extension of the suffrage, and that it was the other side of the House who were in favour of placing a monopoly of political power in the hands of the lower classes. The Members of the Conservative party had been twitted with having added nothing to the arguments of the noble Member for King's Lynn, but there was a very good reason for this, for those arguments had never been refuted. One of the strongest arguments which had been advanced was that the Government, in asking the House to assent to the second reading of the Bill without having before it a Bill for the redistribution of seats, were attempting to play off the representative body of the country against the constituent body. They professed their readiness to place on the table a Bill for the re-distribution of seats, and they held over the House the penalty that if after passing the Franchise Bill they did not assent to any of the subsequent parts of Reform they were liable to be dissolved, That was an unfair position in which to place Parliament. Hon. Members who had been elected as supporters of Lord Palmerston and now felt it their duty to vote for the Amendment, might thus be deprived of the opportunity of explaining their reasons to their constituents and justifying that political honour and consistency which in voting for the Amendment they would fully maintain. He did not believe there was a single Member unconnected with the Government who was prepared to accept the Bill as an entirety. Some objected to the disfranchisement of the dockyard men, others to the savings bank qualification, while that side of the House objected to the swamping of the county constituencies by borough leaseholders. Measures had been promised for the redistribution of seats and for the regulation of boundaries, and probably there would be some Bill extending the Corrupt Practices Act, so that the present Bill was only to be made useful by a succession of measures each of which would effect an important
 54 55 élite 56
 MR. P. A. TAYLOR  said, they had had many eloquent speeches from hon. Members against this Bill—but none of them were addressed to the plain issue before them. The real question which they had to consider was whether the House of Commons was prepared or not to accept the principle of the extension of the suffrage by reduction of the qualification. Many hon. Members who professed to be Reformers at heart, made speeches in favour of the Amendment. But their speeches showed that while it was not difficult to "dissemble their love," they had besides very
 66 67 68
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  replied, that the Bill did not contain any provision proposing to interfere with the existing state of the law as to marriages between two Protestants by Roman Catholic clergymen.
 MR. BAINES  said, he thought the hon. Baronet who had just spoken would regret having stated that the question was one between the rich and the poor—between the aristocracy and the democracy of the
 57 58 élite "The War Office Returns just issued give the following results as to the merit and efficiency of the volunteers of Great Britain. Order of merit, No. I, Leeds Engineers." "The Leeds Engineers thus stand 6rst in merit even to all those crack corps which we have heard so much talk about: it is well know that the privates of this corps are all working artizans. It is likewise well known that the great body of the other regiments are composed of persons who have votes, or sons of those persons; they are gentlemen or sons of gentlemen. I say, then, that this is another reason that working men should have a vote, as they are able to stand their ground with the most aristocratic of the laud." 59 "I heartily congratulate you and myself upon the attainment of this great and honourable national prize, earned in fair competition with the whole Volunteer force of the Empire, by labour in the drill-room, in the field, in the trench, in the battery, and at the bridge. We have been most successful in providing for the improved intellectual and physical education and training of the men of the corps. Your gymnasium is replete with every necessary appointment; your library is large and increasing; your chess and conversational rooms are well furnished and comfortable, and they are regularly and freely opened to you, and, as is proved by your constant and orderly attendance, duly appreciated. The greatest number of you are artizans, and it is an object of pride and pleasure to you, and justly so, that a corps so composed should be in merit at the head of the Volunteers of the Empire." 60
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that representations had been received by the Privy Council that the two provinces mentioned by the hon. Member were free from the cattle disease, and application had been made that the prohibition with respect to the importation of cattle might be relaxed with respect to those two provinces; but before the application was complied with, it was thought desirable to institute inquiries to ascertain what security there would be that cattle professedly brought from those provinces might not, in reality, be brought from time to time from other parts of Holland.
 MR. HIBBERT  said, the town he represented (Oldham) was a manufacturing town, which had gradually grown into importance during the last twenty or thirty years, and now possessed a population of about 107,000 people, comprising amongst them artizans of the highest intelligence. Out of that large population only 2,200 were on the electoral roll, and this he did not consider an adequate representation. But of these 2,200 electors there were only 315 returned as working men, and of these 315 many were not working men, for according to the Government instructions this number comprised men who kept shops, and public-houses and beer-shops; in fact, the working men of Oldham possessed only an infinitesimal share of the franchise; and speaking, generally, he was inclined to think that the Government had been far too liberal in their application of the term working men, not only at Oldham but throughout the country. On the question whether he should vote for the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Chester or for the reading of the Government measure, he would say that if he wished for delay he would vote for the Amendment; but wishing as he did that the representation of the working people should become a reality, that the measure should go forward, and that the working classes should be admitted into the Constitution,
 49 50 51 Facts of the Cotton Famine, "At the end of 1853 there were in the cotton districts 118 co-operative stores, with a paid up capital of £270,000, receiving for goods sold £1,171,000 per annum. There were also about fifty manufacturing companies, whose nominal capital amounted to about £2,000,000, a large proportion of the shares in which had been subscribed by working men. In 1861 the mortgages to building societies in Lancashire amounted to about £220,000. The bulk of this sum consists of deposits by the lower, middle, and the upper stratum of the working classes, and when taken in connection with the 14,068 owners of the £3,800,000 in the savings banks and about half a million sterling owned by about 1,250 friendly societies, and probably half as much more owned by trade societies, shows an amount of prudent forethought and practical frugality, for which few people give the working classes credit, and which must be productive of important results." 52 "Do you suppose it possible, when the knowledge of the principles of political economy has elevated the working classes, and when that elevation is continually progressing, that you can permanently exclude the whole mass from the franchise? It is the interest of the Government to set about solving the problem, and to avoid any danger, they ought to do so without further delay," "The great cause of revolutions is this, that while nations move onward Constitutions stand still. The peculiar happiness of England is that through many generations the Constitution has moved onward with the nation. … The English have long been a great and happy people. But they have been great and happy because their history has been the history of a succession of timely reforms. The Great Charter, the assembling of the first House of Commons, the Petition of Right, the Declaration of Right—the Bill which is now on our table, what are they all but steps in one great progress? To every one of those steps the same objections might have been made which we have heard to-night, 'You are better off than your neighbours are. You are better off than your fathers were. Why can you not leave well alone.'"
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If, in accordance with the Special Report of the City Traffic Committee, the Commissioners of Police in their respective districts, have been instructed by the Secretary of State for the Home Department to submit regulations for the traffic of the Metropolis?
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he wished to know whether the Government itself intend to take charge of the Bill?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I stated on Friday night—or rather, to be more accurate, at daybreak on Saturday morning—that I would to-day, with the permission of the House, make known the views of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the course of the most important parts of public business with which they are concerned; and of course after such a division as that which took place at the time I have named, it is right that I should explicitly state the view which Her Majesty'3 Government take of their position. Her Majesty's Government have not seen in that division any reason or warrant for their desisting from the effort in which they are engaged to pass into law a measure with reference to the Representation of the People. They understand their position—not to dwell for a moment upon the slight numerical difference between the majority and the minority—to be as follows: One moiety of the House was prepared to accede to the proposal of the Government to enter upon the consideration of the Franchise Bill, upon the under-
 164 165 166
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My intention is confined for the present to the Notice I have given; because, as I have already stated, I do not think, as far as we are able to judge, that hon. Members themselves are in the most favourable position to form their own judgment until our Re-distribution Bill shall have been introduced. When that shall have been introduced, we do not wish to fetter our own discretion, or in the slightest degree to fetter the discretion of any Member of the House, as to any further procedure.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The best answer I can give the right hon. and learned Gentleman is, that I hope the Bill relating to Ireland—which I trust may be introduced on Monday—will be, as far as the intentions of the Government are concerned, a complete measure.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It may be taken for granted—and if it is not I have no hesitation in saying—that the Government will make no attempt to deprive Members of this House of due time for considering their course after our plan with regard to the re-distribution of seats is before them. By placing it on the table, and taking as much time as is necessary, it will put both themselves and us in the best position for considering any ulterior measures.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Reform Bill for Scotland will, I have no doubt, be introduced on Monday night by my hon. and learned Friend the Lord Advocate; but with regard to its further stages, I would rather give no pledge at present.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I understand the meaning of
 171
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, he rose, in this rather premature discussion upon the Bill which they had not yet seen, to echo the wishes and the opinions of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie). He trusted that before they again had reason to "destroy their bridges" and to "burn their boats" they should arrive at a satisfactory settlement of the question. If the present opportunity were not made use of, he feared that the consequences might be serious. In his opinion, the party to which he belonged made a great mistake in not going into Committee upon the Reform Bill which was before the House in 1859, and he earnestly hoped that the hon. Gentlemen opposite would not now make a similar mistake.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I fully agree with what the noble Lord has stated. I promised that I would state on Thursday what the Government would or would not do in this matter. Nothing would be so objectionable as that we should not give all persons both inside and outside of the House time to consider the clauses proposed to be introduced. I will, therefore, intercede with the hon. Gentleman and endeavour to arrive at some arrangement to secure the object of the noble Lord.
 MR. GOLDSMID , as a graduate of the University of London, wished to say that the rooms it now occupied were totally inadequate for its purpose. Some of them who presented themselves for degrees were examined in a rifle shed; and some were sent to taverns and other places where they could not be under the eye of the examiner. There was a vast amount of business to be transacted daily by the registrar and other officers of the University, and the present rooms were totally inadequate for the purpose. In the course of a year there were some seventy or eighty examination days. The University required a building in a central, but not a noisy situation, and one that was easily accessible. It had been decided by successive Governments that the University ought to have a building of its own, in the same manner as the Queen's University in Ireland possessed one; and, as the University was dependent upon the House, it was a reasonable proposal to erect a building at a cost of £65,000, of which £20,000 was to be spent this year.
 MR. OTWAY  had always understood that a considerable sum of money had been paid for Burlington House, and that the building now belonged to the nation. He had also always understood that the Royal Academy was to be established on that site; but if the Royal Society had acquired rights there, it would be well for the House to know the fact; and he thought that, before proceeding further, the House ought to be told more about the plan which was to be adopted.
 MR. BARING  confessed that he felt very jealous of any allotment on the site of Burlington House, for he thought that the requirements of the Royal Academy ought to be first considered. The Senate of the London University only wanted rooms on certain occasions, but the Royal Academy was a permanent institution, and was to be removed from another locality.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  admitted that the suggestion for deferring this Vote till a scheme was produced for the disposal of the whole of Burlington House was certainly not in the face of it unreasonable. He ventured, however, to hope that the proposal would not be insisted on, for a reason which he would presently state. But, first of all, he must say that the caution about not crowding buildings, though very good and sound, must be taken with some reserve. The Government having expended large sums for the acquisition of valuable sites in London, a necessity existed for making an economical use of them. The country would not be satisfied if, after having given a large sum for Burlington House, although he thought it an extremely advantageous purchase, its accommodation were not properly taken advantage of. Besides providing for the University of London and the Royal Academy, the available space would do a great deal more. It was necessary to take this Vote, because the case of the University of London was urgent in point of time. If they were not allowed to take a Vote until they could produce a plan for the appropriation of the whole site, there would be a loss of a whole year, and even then the object in view would not be attained. The Royal Academy was going to build out of its own funds, and it would require a good deal of time to settle the mode of filling up the intermediate portion of the site. The great question related to the frontages to the north and south. Though great architectural questions might not be involved, there would be a good deal of adjustment and arrangement of details, involving either a very wasteful or economical apportionment of space. Suppose, for instance, that half a dozen learned societies held meetings more or less numerous, to propose that each should have halls adapted to its purpose would necessarily require a great deal of space. It might, however, be possible
 191
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the Vote did not involve the principle of grants towards the foundation of Colleges in London and elsewhere. The London University had been in existence some years, and was an essential part of the educational institutions of the country, and what was now proposed to be done was in reality only carrying out what Parliament had agreed to twenty-five years ago, but there was no intention of founding other establishments out of the public purse.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  replied, that the Government deemed it to be their duty when asking the House from time to time to vote money for the construction of new buildings of befitting splendour not to lay themselves open to the charge of being guilty of waste, and barbarism by allowing one of the most beautiful edifices ever erected to remain unrestored to a state worthy of its origin, its authors, and the period to which it belonged. The Government had not entered upon the consideration of the use to which the building might be applied—and they now only asked the House to recognize the propriety of its restoration—and the House would be competent to pronounce any opinion it might please as to the use to which the building should hereafter be put. The architect to be employed was Mr. Scott, who, as the Committee was well aware, had devoted much of his time to the acquisition of a knowledge of the Abbey—which for many years had occupied the first place in his mind—and everything connected with it, and whose appointment, therefore, must be regarded as highly satisfactory.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  recommended an increase in the sums charged by the Office. An eminent person connected with the Court of Chancery had expressed surprise to him at the moderation of their fees on an occasion when he had effected an exchange of land through the Commission. He had also heard that the Commissioners were very deficient in fire-proof rooms.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  was about to make some observations, when an hon. Member moved that the House be counted. More than forty Members were, however, speedily gathered in the House, and the hon. Member proceeded to state that he had heard very general dissatisfaction expressed at the fact that the Board of Lunacy Commissioners was not directly responsible to the House. He had noticed that any department so situated invariably became unpopular. It was so with the Poor Law Board before the present arrangement was come to.
 MR. SCOURFIELD  bore testimony to the excellent way in which the South Wales roads were managed, first by Colonel Harness, and more recently by General Wrotham.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he should support the Motion. The Government had postponed all their Orders to enable his right hon. Friend (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) to introduce a measure of great public interest and im-
 214
 LORD NAAS  did not intend at that late hour to follow the right hon. Gentleman through the many details which he had brought before the House, yet he thought it necessary to offer one or two observations in consequence of the very important statements which had just been made. No Member of that House could be more anxious than he was to support any mea-
 223 224 bonâ fide 225
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, that it was certainly not new to propose a measure for the settlement of this vexed question, and therefore the proposal of the Government might, in that sense, be, as the noble Lord had said, destitute of novelty. The noble Lord had himself been a Member of the Government of Lord Derby, by whom this question had been taken in hand; and he would remind the noble Lord that the preliminary notice to which he now took exception was included in the Bill introduced by that Government—for Mr. Napier's proposal to give compensation for improvements made twenty years before the Act came into operation was of a similar kind, though the benefit of that measure was frittered away. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary evinced a strong disposition to do towards the people of Ireland what was right and just, and he felt certain that the right hon. Gentleman's remarks would be welcomed in that country with great satisfaction. As an Irish landlord, and speaking in the interest of the tenant farmers of that country, he believed the measure to be an excellent one. He understood the Government to say that in the absence of a contract the presumption of the law was that the improvements were effected by the party by whom they were generally understood to be made, and that the burden of proof was thrown upon those who usually had nothing to do with them. They desired that a rule of law should be applied
 226 bonâ fide
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  could not feel the confidence expressed by the Secretary for Ireland that this measure was likely to prove successful. On the contrary, he was convinced that the present Bill failed to solve some of the difficulties which were experienced by the Committees appointed to consider the subject in previous years. He wanted to see the question regulated in Ireland as it was in England and Scotland, and such legislation as would facilitate the arrangement of mutual contracts between landlord and tenant, and give the necessary power to each party for enforcing the fulfilment of them. He thought that a simplification of the question might be effected by the adoption of a written contract, which might remove much matter of doubt and complaint. He was puzzled to know the exact tendency of the Bill, especially after the contradictory representations which had been made in reference to it. If improvements were to be made on land without the consent of the landlord, or even without notice being given him of the intentions of the tenant in this respect, he predicted that
 230
 MR. ESMONDE  as a landlord thanked the Attorney General for bringing in the Bill. He thought it contained the materials for a fair and workable measure.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , while assenting to the Motion, was not to be understood as consenting to open up the arrangements already come to in reference to this matter.
 MAJOR WALKER  gave another instance of ignorance of cabmen, which had happened to himself within the last three hours. He and a friend had chartered a cab to bring
 213
 MR. KINNAIRD  asked whether any Report had been presented on the subject, and whether it would be laid upon the table of the House? Had the Secretary to the Treasury listened to the observations of his hon. Friend below the gangway, he would have seen that he did not press upon the Government the desirability of curtailing the hours of employment at the offices at Whitehall or the West End; because, although the clerks in those offices were often detained late, particularly during the Session of Parliament, they, as it were, compensated themselves by coming to business so much later in the morning. He understood the Secretary to the Treasury to say that instructions had been given to the heads of the departments to use their own discretion in the matter. Now, there were certain periods in the year, as there were in every business, when such indulgence as that desired might be granted to those employed without any sort of inconvenience to the public service. He was fully convinced that a general rule applicable to every department could not be issued; but he would impress upon the Government the duty of giving instructions that every indulgence should be granted to the clerks when circumstances permitted.
 177
 MR. KINNAIRD  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Poor Law Board, If the promised measure for amending the administration of the Poor Law Board in the Metropolis will give proper controlling power to the Poor Law Board over the parishes at present governed under local Acts; whether it will abolish the election of guardians for life, and if he knows whether the guardians of Clerkenwell have discontinued that ill-treatment of paupers which has been repeatedly commented on in the public press?
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE : I do not wish to act irregularly, and I shall, therefore, conclude with a Motion. I wish to say that I think, on the whole, the course taken by Her Majesty's Government seems to be undoubtedly the right and the proper one; because it must be borne in mind that now that the Bill for the Reduction of the Franchise has been read a second time, the whole House is agreed upon the principle; for the minority which, on Friday night, divided in support of the Amendment of my noble Friend the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor), expressed their desire to consider a measure of Reform which would lead to a settlement of the question, and also a desire of seeing the scheme which the Government proposed to submit to the House. These two objects will now really
 168 169 ipsissima verba 170
 MR. COWPER , in reply to the hon. and learned Member for Whitehaven (Mr. Bentinck), had to state that Her Majesty's Government had called the attention of the Commission on the Courts of Justice to the opinion which the House had expressed in regard to the number of architects to be called on to compete for the Courts of Justice; and the Commissioners had come to the conclusion that the reasons which had appeared to them, in the first instance, to make it advisable to limit the number of architects to six—namely, the desirability of avoiding as much as possible interference with the ordinary practice of the courts and the wish to secure the leading men of the profession—did not preclude the enlargement of the number of com-
 182 183
 MR. COWPER  said, it would be undesirable to call in gentlemen who might be supposed to have that sort of bias which was frequently produced by the struggles of the profession. It would, he thought, be undesirable to bring in men with those personal feelings and partialities which belong to the active prosecution of their profession, but to get good men of experience who were themselves beyond the arena of competition.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that the site would be on the northern side of the garden of Burlington House. As Burling-
 185
 MR. COWPER  said, the University of London had been of immense use in this country, and had rendered good service to the cause of education and science; but still, those whose attention had not been particularly drawn to the subject could see no building in which the University was maintained. It was at present located in the two wings of the court-yard of Burlington House, and the rooms were totally inadequate for the examinations annually conducted there. It was, therefore, absolutely necessary that further rooms should be provided, and it appeared essential that the University should be placed in a more commodious building. The University of London, he might remark, was founded in consequence of an address from that House to the Crown. It was founded by a charter, and was made a Government establishment from its very beginning. The Government undertook to provide a building in which I it might carry on its operations. It had been removed from Somerset House to Burlington House, and the time had now come when it was necessary that sufficient accommodation should be provided in the neighbourhood of that building.
 MR. COWPER  said, that a calculation had been made as to the amount of accommodation that would be required, but no steps had yet been taken to obtain an architectural elevation. It was necessary to take a Vote before any decision could be come to.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that the Government had adopted the course of leaving the style an open question. If a blunder was committed on a former occasion it was the blunder of the architect, who might have resigned if he had been required to build in a style with which he was not familiar.
 MR. COWPER  said, it was the property of the Government, into whose hands it had come after the dissolution of the monasteries, when it was taken possession of
 194
 MR. COWPER  was surprised at the hon. Member's wishing to confine the work to one man, either by imposing the Board of Works' architect on the Royal Academy or  vice versâ.
 MR. COWPER , in explanation, said, the matter had occupied a great deal of his attention, and that of his architectural adviser, Mr. Pennethorne; and, though he had not thought it necessary to mature the plans before the House sanctioned the principle that the London University was to have an adequate building, he could assure the House that the plans would be completed before any of the work was commenced, and he would promise to place them within the reach of hon. Members, so as to show the portion that would be occupied by the Royal Academy on the southern side, that occupied by the London University at the northern end, and the intermediate space which would accommodate the learned societies. The plan might be executed at different times, but the whole would be settled before any part was commenced. The Royal Academy building would be designed by their own architect, subject to the approval of the Board of Works, and care would be taken that it harmonized in character and general arrangements with the University building. They need not be identical in style, but all the buildings that would cover the site would be viewed as one composition.
 MR. COWPER  repeated, that the portion of the site proposed to be given to the Senate of the University of London was totally different from that on which the Building of the Royal Academy would be constructed, and that there was not the slightest danger of the two Buildings interfering with each other.
 MR. COWPER  observed, that the London University had enlarged its operations of late years. Its importance was daily increasing, and it was absolutely necessary that it should have a new building, where its examinations could be properly conducted. The estimate had been framed with the view of giving all the accommodation which the Senate of the London University required, and of constructing a building of such dignity as was befitting for a University. It was a mistake to suppose that the erection of this building in the Garden of Burlington House would at all interfere with the arrangements made with respect to the Royal Academy. The site was no less than three acres in extent, and the building would be erected, not on the Quadrangle, but on the northern side of Burlington Gardens. This was the site
 189
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  was of opinion that before this Vote was agreed to, the House should be in possession of some general scheme for occupying the ground facing Piccadilly and the Gardens behind. He thought it would be desirable for the Government to postpone the Vote for the present.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  wished to know whether any intimation had been given to the architects who had been invited to compete as to the style of architecture preferred by Her Majesty's Government? The omission to give such an intimation had resulted in a blunder six years ago, and it was therefore desirable to know whether Her Majesty's Government had decided as to the style to be now adopted.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : I wish to say a few words as to the promise which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has made to lay before the House some clauses which he will propose to add to the Church Rates Abolition Bill. We have now heard that it will be impossible for him to make his statement before Thursday next, and the Bill for the total Abolition of Church Rates stands for Committee for the following Wednesday. This being so, it will be impossible for the country in this short time to make up their minds upon the matter. If the result of the negotiations between the Government and the hon. Gentleman who brought in the Bill (Mr. Hardcastle) should be that the Government will become responsible for the Bill; and indeed under the circumstances I do not see how it is possible for the Bill of a private Member to be amended by the Government before going into Committee without their making themselves responsible for it, I think that my suggestion is a reasonable one. However that may be, I would entreat the right hon. Gentleman to make some arrangement to give the country time to consider his proposal.
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he rose to call attention to the propriety of extending the advantages of the Saturday half-holiday to those branches of the Civil Service which do not yet enjoy it; and to ask what steps have been taken by the Government relative to the Report on the subject laid before the late Premier by the Commission appointed to report on the subject. Of late years a moderate diminution of labour and increase of holidays had found favour not only with the employed, but also with their employers. The Saturday half-holiday movement had especially extended in every direction, and had been attended, according to general testimony, by the most advantageous results. It was no exaggeration to say that the Volunteers owed much of their present efficiency to the extension of this movement; nor would it be too much to maintain that its abolition would result in the almost total annihilation of our Volunteer force. As an instance of the manner in which this holiday was extending, he might mention the fact that the Underwriters' Rooms at Lloyd's were now closed at two o'clock on Saturdays, and most of the great railway companies of this country relieved their clerks as far as possible from their labour on the Saturday afternoon. In several of the public departments the holiday had already been granted. The clerks at the Post Office left off at one, and those in the Audit Office, for a great length of time,
 173
 MR. O'REILLY  asked whether the Secretary to the Treasury had stated that power had been given to the heads of the different departments to grant a half-holiday when it could be done without any detriment to the public service?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to supplement the question by asking whether the Government will abolish the Oath of Allegiance now taken by others than persons holding office in Ireland, and substitute a new Oath of Allegiance?
 MR. AYRTON  stated that the question under the consideration of the Committee was discussed some years ago, when the Government promised to bring forward a scheme by which charitable funds should be subject to a certain percentage, so as to cover the expense of the Commission, It was difficult to understand why a Commission instituted for the purpose of ministering to the follies of people who in former times left money for charity should be maintained at the public expense. The money these people had left ought to defray all the expenses connected with its administration. Those charitable funds had no right to receive one farthing from the public Exchequer, for the origin of most
 202
 MR. AYRTON  observed that, notwithstanding the enormous expenditure for coals for the Houses of Parliament, the House of Commons remained about the worst ventilated room in which he ever had the good or ill fortune to sit. The atmosphere was particularly cold when it should be warm and was particularly warm when it should be cool. The bad effect of the air upon Members was such that they
 197
 MR. AYRTON  wanted an explanation of this item. In Loudon the expenditure under this head was only £20, notwithstanding the number of persons that arrived there and the vast trade which it carried on. At Portsmouth, where nobody arrived, £800 was expended on the establishment, which consisted of eight mariners doing nothing, one mate looking after them, and one superintendent. At Rochester, where nobody went except at a general election, there was a mate looking after four ma-
 204
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  observed, that already three or four different societies were located in Burlington House, and, as it was now proposed to have buildings in
 190
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that there was no objection to the University having a building, but there was an objection to that building occupying the site which it was expected that either the National Gallery or the Academy would have had. Thirty years ago, when University College was provided with a building, the design of Mr. Wilkins consisted of a centre and two deep wings. The wings were as yet unbuilt, he supposed because they had not yet been wanted; but now, why not build them and give them to the London University? That would be the most sensible and cheapest way of meeting the requirements of the University, and would be a compliment to its oldest College.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  observed, that the University of London was only an examining body.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  did not attach so much importance to the two fronts being in one style, as they would be some distance apart. Burlington House was a fine specimen of its style, and every endeavour should be made to preserve it. He would throw out one more suggestion before this desultory discussion closed—that the First Commissioner of Works, who had acquired daily instalments of popularity in proportion as he had added architect upon architect to the competition for the New Courts of Justice, should make a sort of "Consolation Stakes" for the design of this University building wherever it might be placed for three or four of the architects
 192
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  was surprised to hear an argument which savoured so of religious intolerance proceeding from such a quarter, and did not see why physical contiguity should affect religious principles. If they built the walls thick enough between the old building and the new wings, there was no fear of the students of the Protestant King's College of London, or the Roman Catholic students of Oscott, being contaminated with any religious rinderpest. He mentioned the fact that he, who was, he flattered him self, not particularly latitudinarian, had been a party to negotiations for transferring an architectural museum to University College, as a good site for an artistic collection.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  thought the Vote was a very moderate one, for the restoration of perhaps the most beautiful and venerable of our ecclesiastical buildings—a building in which that House had sat for 300 out of its 600 years, and which was therefore, as none other could be, identified with both Church and State. The I work of restoring it was promoted by Dean Trench and now by Dean Stanley, and it would, he thought, be a crying scandal if Parliament refused to carry that work into effect.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that before the right hon. Gentleman answered the Question he wished to put an analogous question to him relative to the National Gallery—namely, How many Architects he proposes to call upon to compete for the National Gallery; how long a time he proposes to allow them to send in their designs; and what class of persons it is proposed to call in to aid the right hon. Gentleman in coming to a decision?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  inquired how far the allotting of the ground in Cork Street for the London University would affect the removal, which had been long anticipated, of the National Gallery to Burlington House? Some years ago it was proposed to locate the National Gallery in Burlington House Gardens, and to leave the site in Trafalgar Square wholly to the Royal Academy; but this sensible and cheap plan had been overthrown in the House. It was then understood that the Royal Academy was to go to Burlington House Gardens, and that the National Gallery was to be rebuilt in Trafalgar Square, and although that did not seem to be quite the cheapest and most practical plan, at any rate it provided two sites for the two buildings. If the National Gallery was to be rebuilt, and the London University was to take the Cork Street front, what was to be done with the Royal Academy? Was it to go to Brompton to that large Yorkshire pie, which was to be called the Hall of Science and Art, in which a good many gentlemen had invested sums varying from a hundred to a thousand pounds, and which would, no doubt, be a source of great amusement, if, possibly, not of dividend? Where was the Royal Academy to be located if not in Burlington House Gardens or Trafalgar Square?
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  further asked, whether it was intended to take any pains at all as to the architecture?
 MR. LAYARD  said, he would beg to ask his hon. Friend the Member for Stockport, who had a Notice on the Paper relating to Reciprocity Treaties, to have the goodness to postpone it, and give notice of the terms of the Resolution he proposed.
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS  said, in reply, that a measure amending the administration of the Poor Law would be shortly laid upon the table of the House, in which provision will be made as far as it is practicable, to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee that recently reported to the House on the subject. With regard to the Clerkenwell union he was able to say that the guardians had obtained, and now occupy, new wards apart from the workhouse for the accommodation of the homeless poor, by which the mismanagement complained of will cease in future.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that the Government did not propose to introduce any Bill at present for the object mentioned by the hon. Members; but they proposed and had decided to issue a Commission for the purpose of inquiring into the oaths taken in this country, of reviewing them, and of deciding what oaths ought to be altered, as contain-
 161
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was not quite so simple a question as the hon. and gallant Member appeared to think, whether or not they should call together at the present moment so large a number of men as were usually drawn from the large body of the population from which the militia was recruited. As the hon. and gallant Member did not believe in the existence of Fenianism he took a different view of the subject from that of the Government. With regard to the questions which had been put to him, he had to state that it was not the intention of Her Majesty's Government to call out the militia regiments in Ireland for the present. [Ge-
 180
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that in proposing to the House, on the part of the Government, a fresh measure upon the important question of the relations between landlord and tenant in Ireland, he was quite aware of the great delicacy and difficulty of the subject they had in hand, and he knew very well the ill-success which attempts at such legislation had met with for many years past, although they had been made by men of great ability and earnestness. But although this was the case, he had at least this consolation, that the House during the last twenty years had over and over again recognized the existence in Ireland of evils requiring a remedy, and had admitted its bounden duty to see that such a remedy should be found. Those proposals had been made from time to time by many eminent and honest men—by one who might be termed the patriarch of the question—he referred to Mr. Sharman Crawford, by Mr. Serjeant Shee, by Mr. Napier—for whose authority Gentlemen opposite would, he had no doubt, have the most profound reverence; by his hon. Friend the Member for Cork, and by other Gentlemen. The House, upon these various invitations, had constantly admitted the propriety of considering the subject, and had agreed to important and even courageous measures with respect to it. He had especially in his mind the measures of 1853, which were founded in all their essential provisions upon the Bills of Mr. Napier, who represented the party opposite,
 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222
 MR. READ  wished to know if he was correct in understanding that no plan had been drawn out?
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  thought it would be very disadvantageous to the metropolis that the buildings on the important site in question should be overcrowded; and he wished to know whether the main building of Burlington House, facing Piccadilly, was to be devoted to the Royal Academy?
 MR. REARDEN  suggested that the Vote should be deferred till a uniform scheme was produced for the whole building. At the same time, he must say anything would be an improvement on the dead wall which had so long disgraced Piccadilly.
 MR. REARDEN  wished to know how it was that the Registrar General of England
 201
 MR. REARDEN  said, nothing was more disgraceful in England than the condition of the cabs and cab-horses in the streets of London. He thought if the salaries of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue were increased by £500 a year each, so that they might be enabled to employ inspectors who could look after these things, we should have better horses and better cabs.
 MR. REARDEN  expressed his approval of the course taken by the Government in reference to this question.
 MR. REARDEN  remarked that the sum spent for printing having reference to Ireland was disproportionately small as compared with the amounts expended for English and Scotch purposes.
 MR. REARDEN  called attention to what seemed to he the enormous charge of £15,000 for the travelling expenses of the County Court Judges.
 MR. SULLIVAN  had been much surprised to hear the objections urged by the hon. and learned Member for Wexford, seeing that the Act of 1860 had proved a dead letter. This was a Bill to render that a living instead of a dead measure, and to abolish the machinery which had stifled it from its birth. Were the rights of property appealed to by the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth—rights to hold the property improved, and to confiscate the capital which the tenant had honestly spent upon it? He believed the landlords of Ireland, if appealed to, would repudiate any such supposed rights of property. When the Bill was laid before the House it would, he believed, be found to be a good measure for the tenant, and not to interfere unduly with the rights of property. If it tended to make men more contented with their holdings, if it tended to make them stop in the country, and to lay out their money without fear of its being confiscated, some advantage would certainly be gained.
 MR. SYNAN  protested against any attempt at discussing a Bill the terms of which were not before the House; but with regard to the principle of the measure he was clearly in its favour. The hon. and learned Member for Wexford asked whether they were going to repeal the Act of 1860. Undoubtedly, as far as the question of notice went, because investigation had shown that not a single case had yet occurred in which advantage could be taken of that provision of the Act. To that extent, it was just and necessary that a different principle should be introduced for Ireland from that which prevailed in England and Scotland. He feared the £5 limit would prove illusory.
 GENERAL DUNNE  concurred with the hon. Member for Leitrim, and said he intended to bring the question of the police force in Ireland before the House when the Report of the Commission in reference to the subject was laid before the House.
 GENERAL DUNNE  complained that in Ireland public officers in general were not so highly paid as in England.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that ever since he had been in the House he had been accustomed to discussions upon the subject of printed Returns. Members were constantly led to move for them at the instance of individuals, and frequently it turned out that the object in view was personal and not public. It would be well if any hon. Member who was thus set in motion insisted upon knowing with what object the information was sought. He observed that under the head of "Correspondence" as large an amount was claimed for the Irish police as for all the military forces in Ireland. This, he thought, required some explanation, and generally he was of opinion that the official correspondence ought to be subject to supervision with a view to reducing its expenditure and bulk.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he did not think the House knew why this establishment was kept up. He had been in countries where quarantine was carried out with great strictness, but he should like to ask how quarantine was to be applied here. In the Mediterranean, and wherever quarantine was carried out efficiently, there are officers in each port to examine every ship. But what organization was there in this country to carry quarantine regulations into effect? The rinderpest had been imported, and so might cholera at any time. In Bristol, the other day, a man had been brought in stricken down with cholera. There was no organization in this country which for one moment could keep put such a disease as cholera, which was now impending. As long as we had free trade, and men could enter the country without any difficulty whatever, a Vote of £444 would not keep out contagious disease.
 GENERAL DUNNE  thought that this Vote ought to be seriously discussed by the Committee. If the cholera was approaching much more effectual measures should be taken than this Vote would allow. If the whole of the ports of the United Kingdom were left open, with the exception of Rochester and Portsmouth, there was, in point of fact, no quarantine at all. Liverpool and the other great trading ports, not to speak of Ireland, which seemed never to be thought of, were all left open to the disease. There ought to be a medical officer in every port to inspect vessels coming in. He had seen at Zante four men hanged by Sir Thomas Maitland for breaking the quarantine regulations. He did not wish to see such a stringent exercise of the law in this country; but it was just now of peculiar importance that stringent quarantine regulations should be enforced, if it were true that the cholera had arrived in Holland and was likely to visit these shores. He hoped, then, the Committee would be informed what precautions were to be taken, and why Portsmouth and Rochester should be sealed while all the other ports were left open.
 GENERAL DUNNE  hoped that in future good bargains would be made for the public, and that fines would be inflicted upon both the railway and the marine company for non-fulfilment of their respective contracts. Many works had been carried out for the purpose of facilitating landing, but he did not look upon them as permanent, as most likely they would be swept away some time or another; and, in fact, vessels moored to them were in danger every stormy night.
 GENERAL DUNNE  wished to call attention to the small sum that was expended in Ireland for Parks and other public works. He admitted that the agricultural districts were equally neglected in this respect.
 GENERAL DUNNE  observed, that these buildings were very nearly completed. It was very important that the records should be got in at once, and, therefore, he hoped everything would be done to carry out that object.
 GENERAL DUNNE  hoped the Vote would be postponed. He protested against the extravagant expenditure of money drawn in part from the taxation of Ireland upon the embellishment of London. He could not see why they should have selected so expensive a site for the London University. He could not see that the site offered any particular advantage, except its proximity to the Arcade and the Blue Posts; and, in fact, it would be better out of London.
 GENERAL DUNNE  suggested that as only £10,000 was proposed for a similar object in Ireland the present Vote should be reduced to that sum.
 GENERAL DUNNE  had had no answer to his question as to the Vote to the London University being £67,000, while that to Ireland, under precisely similar circumstances, was only £10,000.
 GENERAL DUNNE  wished to know to whom the Chapter House belonged.
 GENERAL DUNNE , in rising to ask a Question relative to the annual training of the Irish Militia, said, he could conceive of no reason whatever why the Militia should not be called out for training this year as in former years. If the defence of the Government for the course they had indicated was that what was called Fenianism existed in the Irish Militia, he desired to know what grounds they had for believing such to be the case? If the Inspector General of Militia, after consulting the officers commanding regiments, had made a Report upon the subject, he desired to know whether it would be laid on the table? He was aware that some of the staff of the Limerick Militia had been suspected of sympathizing with Fenianism, and certain non-commissioned officers had been accused of being mixed up with the movement; but it had been proved, at an inquiry conducted by the Inspector of Militia, that they were entirely innocent of the charge imputed to them. He believed that the reports respecting the existence of Fenianism throughout the country had been grossly exaggerated, and that the course pursued by the Government had greatly tended to intensify the fear of the people as to the extent of the movement. When it was perceived that the Government were greatly alarmed, it was thought that a rebellious spirit pervaded the land to a far greater extent than was really the case. No doubt in the towns, or at least in some of them, there were young men who had entered into this foolish society. Many who had
 178 179
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he would bog to ask the right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works, If any determination has been come to with regard to the Resolution of the House, that it was desirable that more than six architects should be invited to compete for designs for the New Law Courts; and, also, whether any
 181
 MR. BENTINCK , observing that this was a large sum of money, asked how it was to be laid out, and to what purpose it was proposed that the Chapter House, when restored, should be applied?
 MR. BENTINCK  asked, to what use it was intended to devote the building when restored? Was it to be given back to the Abbey, and who was the architect to be employed in its restoration?
 MR. BENTINCK  thought it would be much better to have but one architect for the whole building.
 MR. BENTINCK  wished to know who was to be the architect of these buildings? Burlington House was the work of a very eminent architect; and it would be a matter of very great regret if Lord Burlington's fine front were pulled down without something very good being substituted for it.
 MR. BENTINCK  regretted that the Secretary to the Treasury had failed to answer a question of considerable importance that he had put—namely, what the officials who had charge of the hulks did when there were no sick persons on board? It was but seldom necessary that persons afflicted with disease should be sent to these hulks. He entirely agreed with the observation of the hon. Member for Sunderland that this expenditure was either too much or too little. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would take the earliest opportunity of informing himself or of refreshing his memory on the subject. As to the financial reformers, he hoped the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White), who had made a financial speech on a former occasion, and other Gentlemen who had spoke in favour of economy, would attend when the Votes were under discussion, and step by step endeavour to reduce the public expenditure.
 MR. BENTINCK  desired to know what were the duties of the officers on board the quarantine hulks, when, owing to the absence of disease or of an epidemic of any kind, a state of quarantine was unnecessary.
 MR. SANDFORD  inquired whether Rotterdam had been proclaimed.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, that was a proper occasion for asking the Government what course as to the enforcement of quarantine regulations they intended to take with regard to the impending visitation of cholera. He would remind the House that last year when cholera was raging along the Mediterranean, Sicily, which, from the filthy habits of the people,
 205
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the Reform Bill for Scotland about to be introduced would, like the Irish Bill, be a complete measure, involving a re-distribution of seats as well as a reduction of the franchise? It was not to be supposed that a re-distribution of seats was not required in Scotland. In Sutherlandshire, for instance, there were only 200 electors, almost all of whom were tenants of one individual. That county might very fairly be united to Caithness-shire, and the Member for Sutherlandshire might with propriety be transferred to the City of Glasgow. He there fore wished to draw the attention of the Lord Advocate to the subject when he introduced the question.
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  thought the back of Burlington House was not a site worthy of such a building.
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  asked, whether the right hon. Gentleman proposed to proceed with the Franchise and Re-distribution Bills together, or to carry the two Bills separately?
 MR. BARNETT  observed, that hon. Members were overwhelmed with the immense amount of papers which were delivered at their houses every day. He could scarcely imagine that many of these papers, such as those which related to Railway and Canal Bills were required by Members, and therefore he presumed that many of them must be furnished by direction of the Printing Committee.
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  wished to know how far this system was to be continued, and whether the Government intended to propose grants for Colleges in all the large towns, like the Lyceums in France? He could not see what distinction could be drawn between the metropolis and other large towns, and, whereas he had always understood that only the education of the poor was to be aided out of the public purse, this grant introduced a new principle. If the London University was wanted, as he believed it was, and if the Government
 193
 MR. CHILDERS  explained that the London University had from 1,000 to 1,100 students, while the Irish University had about 300, and the accommodation required for the two institutions was therefore very different.
 MR. CHILDERS  replied, that the students who came to the examinations at the London University came from many Colleges, and belonged to different religious denominations, and surely the hon. Gentleman would not wish the building used for those examinations to be made an adjunct to a College founded upon particular principles. Such a proposal would be most distasteful to the members of King's College; and it was one which had never before been suggested. Last year, the University examined more than 1,000 students, on thirteen different occasions, the examinations extending over fifty or sixty days. The accommodation now provided was entirely insufficient. The
 188
 MR. CHILDERS  could assure the hon. and gallant Member that everything that the Treasury could do to forward the completion of the buildings had been and should be done.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that some difficulty had occurred in obtaining a desirable site for the erection of these buildings. The Government had asked for such a sum as would be necessary to carry out the building when a proper site was obtained.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the law had imposed upon Government the duty of repairing the canal, but had not directed in what manner they were to dispose of it when the repairs were completed. When completed it would have either to be sold or transferred to the counties. He expected, however, that some arrangement would shortly be come to in reference to it.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he could not say exactly at that moment when the contract would terminate. He had been in communication with the contractors with the view of fixing upon a proper system of penalties, and he hoped to make some arrangements on the subject which would be satisfactory. As to the works at Holyhead harbour their construction was attended with considerable difficulty. Of late there had been successful endeavours to carry out the contracts.
 MR. CHILDERS , in the absence of the Attorney General for Ireland, could not give a full reply to the question.
 MR. CHILDERS  had never known till then the meaning of the phrase as to some hon. Members being "out in the cold;" but no doubt the complaints which the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets had just made would receive the attention of the officials charged with the ventilation and other arrangements of the House. Care would be taken to communicate with them on these matters.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was the wish of the Government as far as possible to substitute payment by salary instead of by bill to the solicitors employed in this department, as being a more economical arrangement.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that when he first saw the amounts placed under that head he held an opinion similar to that which had fallen from the hon. Member for Chippenham. He found, however, on inquiry, that the amounts were perfectly justifiable, and, not as he at first supposed, excessive.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that for some years past the business of this department had gradually been more and more concentrated, and he could not promise the hon. and learned Baronet that such a provision as he suggested should be included in any legislation during the present Session.
 MR. CHILDERS  explained that the duties of the Registrars General of Scot land and Ireland were little more than nominal, while every one knew that the duties of the Registrar General of England were varied and onerous.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was not aware that the Commissioners were deficient in fire-proof rooms; and with respect to the objection raised to the following Vote, he explained that the whole amount was paid back into the Exchequer every year.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he would not enter into the question whether the charities referred to were good or bad, but he would state that the charges of the Commission, when the duties discharged by it were fully considered, did not appear excessive. With regard to the desirability of recovering the expense of the Commission by charges on charitable funds, he thought that was a question worthy of consideration, and he would ascertain what inquiry had been made by the Government into that matter previous to his entering the office he now held.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the whole question of the constitution of the Lunacy Commissions for the three kingdoms was deserving of consideration. In Ireland the Lunacy Commission took charge of the administration of lunatics altogether. The Scotch system had not been long enough in operation to enable the Government to say whether it was better than the others, but in a short time it would probably be the duty of the Government to make some inquiry into the subject.
 MR. CHILDERS  was not in a position to give the exact percentage, but it was extremely small.
 MR. CHILDERS  thought the matter one of importance and of interest to the country at large, as well as to those more immediately concerned. But the question raised was also one of much difficulty, and he thought the House should pause before it adopted any Resolution upon the matter. He agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend as to the efficiency of the Civil Service clerks. He believed it was the opinion of all those who had inquired into the matter that the business of the country was well done, and that any arrangement for the future should be based upon the consideration that they had a good body of men who deserved encouragement. But he did not think the Civil Service as a whole was overworked. His hon. and gallant Friend
 174 175 176
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that according to the present rule a half-holiday would be granted to a certain number of the clerks when no inconvenience would result from such a course.
 MR. CHILDERS  agreed with the hon. Member that it would be most desirable to limit the number of those Returns; but there was very great difficulty in the way of the Government interfering in the matter. If the Government attempted to interfere with a Member when he called for a Return, it would be supposed that there was something to conceal, and that under the plea of economy the Government sought to keep back information. But if hon. Members before moving for Returns would be good enough to inquire whether the information which they sought to obtain was not already to be found in other papers, a considerable saving might be effected. In illustration of this, he might observe that some time ago an hon. Member came to him and showed him a copy of a Motion which he proposed to make for a Return. That Return would have cost £500; but he was able to show the hon. Gentleman that by means of Returns already granted by Parliament, the information which he required might be drawn up on a small sheet of paper. The Printing Committee could no doubt prevent a good deal of unnecessary printing, but he felt convinced that it was in the power of hon. Members to effect a very considerable economy in this item of the public expenditure. It was, however, worthy of remark that the House of Commons spent much less on Returns than Congress in America did. He believed the reason of this was that Congress printed for the constituencies, while the House of Commons generally printed for itself. At the same time, he repeated that a considerable saving might be effected if hon. Members made closer inquiries before moving for Returns.
 MR. CHILDERS  quite agreed with his hon. and gallant Friend that the apparently trifling expenses of individual stations swelled into something very large when multiplied by the number of establishments maintained by us in all parts of the world. And it would be well, he thought, if the heads of departments could agree upon some uniform principle of action. Meanwhile, as to the general control, the Executive had done their best by appointing a controller of stationery, whose interference
 209
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Bill referred
 210
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the question as to charges on the Consolidated Fund and charges on local rates had been inquired into by a Parliamentary Committee last year, and he should decline to enter upon it on the present occasion. As to the travelling expenses of the Judges, considering the large number of these Judges—more than sixty, in fact—and that they were travelling for three-quarters of a year, he did not think that the amount was extravagant. The expenses, however, of the County Courts were not, he admitted, in a satisfactory state, but as they intended to dispense with the treasurers and high bailiffs, these changes, along with some others, would effect a saving of something like £70,000. As to the comparative expense of the English and Irish County Courts, he might remark that the Irish people did not go to law very much about small sums of money, and considering the costs attending the administration of justice generally throughout the United Kingdom, he did not think that the amount required for England was larger in proportion to the extent of business involved than it was in Ireland.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was uncertain of the fact, but he thought not.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the hulks in the Medway and the Solent were, as he had stated, for the reception of persons afflicted with certain dangerous diseases who might arrive in the Thames or at Southampton, and £200 a year for medical attendance at the latter place was money well laid out; for a very large number of persons arrived at Southampton, and it was desirable that they should be looked after. As ports were known to be infected, no doubt they would be proclaimed. The Privy Council was armed with very great powers, and when the time should come for their exercise proper precautions would be taken. He was sorry he had no authority to answer the question put by the hon. Member
 206
 MR. CHILDERS  admitted that the subject was one which be had not very much studied; but he promised that the matter should be looked into, and he hoped to be able to answer the hon. and learned Gentleman in a few days.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, this establishment was but a skeleton, and formed one of the smallest which could be kept up if it was the intention of Parliament to maintain quarantine. There were differences of opinion upon that subject, but at present Parliament retained the system, and made the Privy Council responsible for its observance. Under these circumstances, it would not be prudent to dispense with this Vote. As long as Parliament thought fit to make Government responsible, if anything were to happen which could be prevented by quarantine, the House would be very indignant if there should be any neglect on the part of the authorities. The sum that was asked, £444, was not very large.
 MR. CHILDERS  did not concur with the hon. Member for Chippenham, and stated again that the charges of the Commission were not excessive.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the superintendent, mate, and mariners at Portsmouth formed the crew of the hulk stationed in the Solent to receive persons from ships coming from abroad in a dangerous condition. The officer at Southampton was a medical superintendent, and it was his duty to visit ships coming from abroad and to send persons who might be suffering from dangerous diseases to the hulk at Portsmouth. The same was the case with the hulk at Rochester, which received invalids from vessels off the Nore. He could not give a satisfactory explanation just then of the small expenditure in London, but he should look into the subject.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, the misapprehension which existed with respect to the Bill only showed how unwise it was to discuss its provisions on the Motion for leave to introduce it. He hoped the noble Lord the Member for Cockermouth was not speaking the sentiments of the landlords of Ireland when he told the House that if the Bill became law it would be followed by agreements between landlords and tenants to prevent the latter from taking advantage of the powers the Bill proposed to confer upon them. He believed that was not just to the landlords of Ireland, whom the last speaker had, in his opinion, more correctly described. Flagrant instances of injustice on the part of Irish landlords were now and then brought to light, but these he believed were the exception, and not the rule. The right hon. and learned Gentleman complained that this Bill inaugurated different legislation for the two countries. But he was either the author or aider of Bills that proposed to introduce different principles in
 228
 MR. WHITE  observed, that in the case of other Estimates they often found there was a balance not disposed of; but he had never known anything to be returned out of the amount voted for secret service.
 207
 MR. WHITE  took the opportunity of asking the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer a question on the subject of the Reform Bill. They had heard much talk about standing or falling by the Bill, and when Government had so miserable a majority he thought in his ignorance that they would resign. The speech of the right hon. Gentleman conveyed to his mind the impression that if they went into Committee upon the Bill, and the House in the exercise of its wisdom should agree to an increase in the borough franchise, such a Resolution would be accepted by the Government as fatal to the Bill. He wished to know whether that would be the case or not—whether if the House were to put the borough franchise at £8, the Government would consider such a result as fatal to the Bill, and, therefore, that the natural consequences would follow?
 MR. WHITE  said, he believed these roads had been taken under the charge of the Government, and the tolls on them were abolished in consequence of the Rebecca riots. He wondered whether any Rebecca riots in the neighbourhood of London would have the same effect. He wished to know what proportion the costs of inspection were to the whole sum disbursed?
 MR. WHITESIDE : Ireland having been alluded to by the right hon. Gentleman, I wish to know what are the intentions of the Government, with relation to dealing with the franchise in that country? I do not ask what they are going to do, for I do not want them to do anything, but whether they intend to introduce a Bill relating to the franchise as well as to the re-distribution of seats in Ireland.
 MR. WHITESIDE  expressed surprise at the assertion that had been made by hon. Gentlemen, that the systems pursued in England and Ireland with respect to property were entirely opposite. The principle on which this Bill was founded must, if adopted, lead to most disastrous results. He thought it right that the law respecting distress should be the same in England as in Ireland. If the House, however, chose to abolish the law of distress in both countries, let it be abolished, and he would offer no objection. He asked whether hon. Gentlemen expected to impose upon the tenantry of Ireland so far as to induce them to believe they would get a real and substantial benefit by the Bill. In his opinion it would be as hopeless to attempt to empty the Thames at full tide with a teaspoon as to benefit the tenantry of Ireland by such a measure. The principle of this measure was that it should only apply to the case of unwritten contracts; but a contract was a contract whether written or not. The law at present took cognizance of unwritten and merely verbal contracts, and enforced them if they were substantiated. Why could not that course be continued? No such alteration was demanded. And what would be the effect of it? They knew how those things were managed in Ireland. The landlord would send for the tenant and say to him, "A bad law has been passed by that Parliament over the water, and it is now necessary that you sign this
 227
 MR. BAGWELL  again appealed to the right hon. and learned Member not to proceed further that night, and moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. BAGWELL  appealed to the hon. Member to report Progress, to allow the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland to bring in his Bill relative to Landlord and Tenant.
 MR. BRADY  corroborated the state-
 212
 MR. BRADY  said, Parliament might enact that they should be provided by each parish, and might attach a penalty to the improper use of public cabs.
 MR. BRADY  said, that the great means of preventing the invasion of cholera was the establishment of a permament board of medical officers, who should have power to carry out a proper system of quarantine in the different ports of the kingdom. When the cattle disease was in its most dangerous stage Government appointed officers to examine the cattle on their being landed, and surely where the lives of men were imperilled they might show some extra zeal for the preservation of the public health.
 MR. BRADY  commented upon the fact
 211
 MR. CANDLISH  said, the sum asked for was either too much or too little—one or other conclusion was inevitable. In the northern ports there were no quarantine establishments at all. He considered that this subject called for the attention of the Executive before they prepared another Vote for the approval of that House.
 MR. CANDLISH , in reference to the danger to which people were subjected who hired cabs which had been previously occupied by persons suffering from contagious diseases, suggested that the Poor Law Board should enable unions throughout the country to provide cabs for persons suffering from such diseases. That course had been followed by the guardians in the borough which he represented, and, while it was inexpensive, he had no doubt it was most protective.
 MR. DODSON  asked the hon. and learned Gentleman who introduced the Bill, whether he could explain what its effect would be upon the retail trade. So far as he (Mr. Dodson) understood the definition of a bag or pocket of hops which it contained, it would apply to any receptacle or package, however small, in which hops were packed.
 MR. GEORGE  remarked that as this Bill was stated by the Secretary for Ireland it appeared to him to be a departure from the Act of 1860. The Bill of 1860 was brought in under the auspices of the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Card-well), and Mr. Deasey, at that time the Attorney General for Ireland, and it was admirably adapted to hold the scale fairly between landlord and tenant. Clause 40 of that Act enacted that the owner might within three months after service give notice in writing that he disapproved of the improvements proposed to be made, and no tenant had a right to begin improvements from which the owner dissented. Any legislation which would encourage the tenant to execute improvements without notice or without the consent of the landlord would, in time, improve the landlord out of his estate. The Committee of last year determined that compensation to the tenants should only be secured to improvements made with the consent of the landlord, and he trusted that the Legislature would allow of no departure from that principle. It was exceedingly desirable, whether leases were taken for a shorter or a longer term that written agreements should as far as possible be adopted. He had always been anxious to give every facility and every encouragement for making improvements on land, but he had always opposed, and he would continue to oppose, the execution of improvements without the consent of the landlord.
 MR. LOCKE  thought it would be extremely inconvenient if this Bill were not proceeded with. There was no objection to any of the Amendments proposed. A few minutes more would enable the Committee to dispose of the whole subject.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, the Government had redeemed their promise of legislating in this matter in a worthy and honourable manner, and he would appeal to the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin to assist the Government
 231
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether it is the intention of the Government, now that the Oaths hitherto taken by Members of Parliament have been replaced by a simple and uniform Oath, to introduce a Bill in the present Session to substitute a similar form of Oath for that now required to be taken by all persons accepting municipal or other offices in Ireland?
 MR. PIM  hoped the House would very seriously consider the matter before it opposed the passing of this Bill, which he trusted would soon become law. The two arguments of the noble Lord who first
 229
 MR. M. MORRIS  said, that in Ireland the building and repairing of the court houses were paid for out of the county rates, while in England that charge was met by the Consolidated Fund. He did not think that was a fair arrangement for Ireland.
 MR. CRAWFORD  called attention to the great want of precaution in licensing drivers of cabs and other public vehicles. On one occasion, wishing to go from Westminster to the City, he was driven over Westminster Bridge and then brought to a standstill, as the driver did not know the route, and on inquiry it appeared that he was a stranger to London. On Saturday afternoon, in Newgate Street, he saw a cab conveying a number of pigs' car-cases. He thought that that was not a proper purpose to put a vehicle to which was usually intended for the conveyance of human beings. These were but two of many instances showing want of precaution which had recently come within his experience and observation, indeed, lately he had been on the watch for them. He believed, that as a class, the drivers of cabs were better than they used to be, and he did not receive from them anything like the incivility he once did. Possibly one reason was he knew the fares as well as the drivers did, and when he tendered the correct amount, without asking a question, they saw it was useless to attempt extortion. It was very seldom he met with insolence; and his complaint was that men were allowed to drive who did not know London, and who did not know the rules of the road. They all knew that cabs were used to convey fever and other patients to the hospitals.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he had in various ways, especially in connection with the work of education, been brought into contact with the Charity Commissioners, and he differed from the hon. Gentleman who bad just sat down. He believed that their duties were very heavy, and required great tact, skill, and industry. For instance, they were often called to settle a scheme of education for a school, or for the details of management of another charity, in cases which were not contentious, and the decision required great care and deliberation. He had been connected with a charity school in his own county where reference was made to them, and the correspondence in that case was exceedingly voluminous, and was conducted by the Commissioners with great punctuality and attention.
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  did not see how Government could prevent cabs being used for such a purpose. He was told that it had been found impracticable to provide conveyances for patients by subscription; and it was rather too much to expect the Government to supply them.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  hoped the Government would not give up the quarantine establishment, as it might be made a most useful instrument for the prevention of disease. At Odessa and the towns north of the Black Sea, where plague used to rage at one time, quarantine had been established during the last thirty years and there was no plague there now. The same was the case at Constantinople; where as soon as they introduced a strict system of quarantine the plague came to an end. In Malta the system was attended with similar success. With such undeniable facts before us we ought not to be in a hurry to abandon quarantine in deference to some new-fangled notions.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  questioned the propriety of burdening the country with the cost of a Commission for the purpose of looking after the property of any individual; and he observed that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had shown that it was very doubtful whether these charities did more harm or more good.
 MR. TITE  said, that the arrangement with respect to the Royal Academy was, that their Building was to have a front next Piccadilly, with a row of galleries running along the east side of the ground. The Vote now under consideration referred to the appropriation of a portion of the Gardens on the west side.
 MR. TITE  said, the rooms now used by the University belonged to the Royal Society, and were used for the meetings of the Royal Society on Thursday evenings. All that the University wanted was a convenient building in which examinations might be held and degrees conferred.
 186
 MR. TITE  certainly had wished that the competition for the Law Courts should
 184
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, that he thought few hon. Members would coincide in the views of the hon. and learned Member who had just sat down as to the character of English charities. He believed that those charities constituted one of the most magnificent features of the country. He experienced the greatest possible gratitude towards those who had in former times set aside portions of their wealth for the public benefit, and he did not think it unreasonable that a Commission should be appointed in order to check the management of charitable bequests. It was to the interest of this great country that such funds should be properly administered, and he believed that the Charity Commissioners exercised a salutary influence on the trustees.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, at this meeting, attended by chairmen from all parts of the country, there was not found one to defend the constitution of the Board; and he thought the subject should receive the attention of the Government.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  thought it would be advisable to establish a branch Audit Office in Dublin for Irish business, by which means the delay and the expense attendant upon the transmissions of all documents to London would be obviated.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  asked the Attorney General for Ireland whether there was any intention on the part of Government to erect a new Probate Court in Dublin? The question had been put by the hon. Member for Sligo to the Attorney General for Ireland last Session, and the reply was that the matter was then under the consideration of Government. He wished to know if any steps had been taken in the matter. The-existing Probate Court was universally condemned by the Judges, the bar, and the public.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  took occasion to say that several complaints had been made of the irregularity of the Irish mails between London and Dublin, and also of the high rate of the fares charged between the two capitals, which were only a few shillings less than those charged between London and Cork. The contractors for the former service saved, he believed,
 195
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  thought a better site for the University might have been found on the new Thames Embankment, where every one might have been able to see the building.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, he was glad to see this Vote inserted in the Estimates, for it was quite time that the University of London should have not only a name, but a local habitation. He wished, however, to know where it was intended to erect the proposed building?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  called attention to the enormous expense of the County Courts in England, amounting in the whole to £166,267, while the travelling expenses of the Judges came to no less than £15,000 a year. In Ireland the expenses of the County Courts amounted to only £40,000; and out of that sum upwards of £13,000 were received in the shape of fees; so that the total charge to the public was only between £26,000 and £27,000.
 MR. WATKIN , in reply, said, his complaint was that a treaty involving a trade of £10,000,000 sterling and certain fishery and navigation rights had been allowed to terminate without a single scrap of information being laid before the House. He should be very sorry, however, although his notice had been on the Paper for several weeks, to give any inconvenience to the hon. Gentleman. He would, therefore, postpone it for the present, and place on the Paper a copy of the Resolution he propose to move, fixing another day when a discussion could take place on the subject.
 MR. POWELL  asked, what architectural arrangements had been made.
 MR. POWELL  wished to know if it were proposed to call into the assistance of the Committee practising architects.
 MR. GOLDNEY  remarked that the work of the Commission for which the Vote was required had virtually come to an end, except that it had occasionally to supply information to the public. He thought the Vote was, therefore, excessive.
 MR. GOLDNEY  thought that the sums allowed to the Inspectors for travelling expenses—£600 each per annum—were excessive. Considering the nature of the duties performed, he believed that, as a rule, the visit of an Inspector to a workhouse took place about once in two years.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, as far as he knew the duties of this Commission were not very onerous. They consisted principally in receiving reports from the managers of the various charities, and in granting or refusing applications for the exchange of lands. This was another instance of a case where a Commission was much needed in the first instance and did good work, but which was continued after all need for it had ceased.
 MR. GOLDNEY  thought that more Commissioners were employed than were necessary to discharge the work devolving upon them.
 MR. GOLDNEY , observing that a new Bankruptcy Law Amendment Bill was promised, said, that it was a feature of all so-called bankruptcy reforms that new places were created, and the former officials handsomely pensioned off. He suggested that in any future Bill a clause should be introduced providing that if the amended scheme did not work well, the officials appointed under it should not be entitled to superannuation.
 MR. GOLDNEY  inquired, whether any consideration had been given to that portion of the Bill, lately passed, by which the salaries of the registrars, high bailiffs, and treasurers had been to a certain extent abolished.
 MR. GOLDNEY  expressed his opinion that a very large sum might be saved in the expenditure on Parliamentary Returns. Hon. Members must know that frequently a very large expense was incurred for Returns, giving details which were already in the possession of the House. He stated that he believed that a saving of £20,000 could be effected in this way, and he would recommend that for this object there should be some supervision of this outlay on the part of the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the Parliamentary Oaths Bill having received the Royal Assent, it becomes necessary for the House without delay to make some regulation in regard to the manner in which Members shall take their seats in this House. The Act which required seats to be taken between the hours of nine in the morning and four in the afternoon has been repealed, and it was provided that the manner of taking the oaths should be regulated by Standing Orders to be made by each House of Parliament. I therefore propose the Resolution of which I have given notice, with a view to give effect to this provision of the law. The effect will be that seats may be taken at any time before public business—meaning thereby the Orders of the Day and Notices of Motions—has been entered upon or after it has been disposed of, not allowing the public business to be interrupted for that purpose. I beg to move the following Resolution:—
 "That Members may take and subscribe the Oath required by Law at any time during the sitting of the House, before the Orders of the Day
 163
 SIR GEORGE GREY : There is another Resolution consequent upon that which had been agreed to, which is that the Standing Orders regarding the manner in which Gentlemen of the Jewish faith take their seats should be repealed, as that is no longer applicable. I therefore propose—
 "That the Standing Order of the 15th day of August, 1860, relative to the swearing of persons professing the Jewish Religion, be read and repealed."
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that was their intention in accordance with the statement he had already made.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that his hon. Friend must have misunderstood the purport of the Report of the Committee. They reported that the Bill was too limited in its operation, but they recommended that a general measure should be proposed which should regulate the traffic throughout the metropolis. It would be the duty of the Government to prepare a Bill for this purpose, but regulations
 162
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  reminded the House that there was an unimportant part of the Kingdom called Scotland, and he begged to ask whether the Franchise Bill for Scotland would be read a second time before or after the other parts of the scheme were proceeded with.
 MR. HUDDLESTON  said, the interpretation clause referred to hops packed in bags or pockets sent from the grower, producer, or any other person. The objection would be met by omitting the words "or any other person."
 MR. HUDDLESTON  declined to accede to the request.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to intimate to the House that he would proceed with the Re-distribution Bill  pari 167 passu
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  had been under the impression that this outlay of £20,000 was for the London University, but it had just been explained that it was merely for class-rooms, in which the University of London was to conduct its examinations.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that Burlington House was a valuable site, and ought to be made the most of; but could not conceive a more extraordinary proposal than that of having different styles for the two fronts. Surely the best plan would be to have one plan and one style of architecture. Burlington House ought not to be sacrificed, however, unless it was absolutely necessary, which he did not think had been proved.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that rather strengthened his argument. The building was not to be of a character of any great magnificence. The requirements of the University were at present satisfied by the use of a large room in Burlington House; and, if so, he wanted to know how it could be necessary to spend £65,000 for any such purpose, and why it was necessary to fix upon one of the most valuable sites in London for the building?
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  gave an instance of the ignorance of cab drivers in many cases as to the localities to which they were asked to drive. Upon one occasion last year, or the year before, he engaged a cab at the bottom of Waterloo Place to take him to Harley Street. The driver wished to know where Harley Street was, and on being informed that it led out of Cavendish Square he asked, "Where is Cavendish Square?" He (Sir Stafford Northcote) told him that it was in the direction of Regent Street, whereupon the man asked, "Which way is Regent Street?" adding, as he pointed towards the Strand, "Is it that way?"
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  observed, that the greater number of the Returns ordered by that House were unopposed Returns. If the various Departments of the Government did what the hon. Gentleman the Secretary of the Treasury (Mr. Childers) did in the case which he had mentioned, hon. Members intending to move for Returns would be shown that in many cases those Returns were unnecessary, and there would thus be a considerable check upon unnecessary printing, without any imputation of a desire to refuse information being incurred.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  trusted that if the Commission were appointed it would meet forthwith, and would come to an early decision upon the question laid before it.
 MR. BUXTON  said, that the remarks of the hon. Member who had just sat
 276
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that if his right hon. Friend looked at the latter part of the clause, he would see that it contemplated the case of a Commission after the Report of a Select Committee; but he admitted the clause was not well worded, because the words were "such. Report with the evidence taken before the Committee, shall be laid before the Attorney General." He apprehended the Home Secretary would cause the evidence to be laid before the Attorney General, and he would be bound to prosecute unless he in his judgment thought that evidence to be insufficient. It by no means followed that there must be a Commission; for he had not the least doubt that, in any case where an Election Committee reported that bribery and treating had prevailed, it would be competent for that House, without a Commission, on their own Motion, to direct the Attorney General to prosecute, or to lay papers before him with a view of his prosecuting, and that on the Resolution of the House.
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  said, it appeared that these Commissions did some good, because at the last election for Wakefield, it had not been shown that there was any bribery committed by the sitting Member for that borough or his agents. He wished to set his hon. Friend the Member for East Surrey (Mr. Buxton) right as to the law upon the subject. His hon. Friend suggested that instructions ought to be given to the Attorney General to prosecute in all cases reported to the House. Now, that was the law at present, [The ATTORNEY
 278
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE , Chairman of the Reigate Election Committee, rose to move for a Commission to inquire into the existence of corrupt practices at the last election for Totnes. The Election Committee which had recently sat for the purposes of inquiring into the allegation of the petition presented against the returns for that borough, had found that there was reason to believe that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed in that borough at the last election. The Act under which they came to that finding was passed in 1852, and enabled Commissioners to be appointed on a joint Address of the two Houses of Parliament to the Crown. In case the Election Committee reported either that extensive corruption had prevailed, or that there was reason to believe that extensive corruption had prevailed, a Commission might, under the Act, be moved for to inquire into those practices. The House was aware that this Act had been put in operation by past Parliaments, and he believed four or five Commissions had been issued under it. He proposed very briefly to state to the House why it was that the Committee came to that finding in the case of the borough of Totnes; and he might begin by stating that in making this Motion he believed he expressed the unanimous opinion and desire of his colleagues as well as his own opinion. The case was rather a remarkable one. Totnes was a small borough, according to the Census of 1861 the population being only 4,000; since then, it had, according to calculation, been rather reduced, and was now between 3,000 and 4,000. The electors on the register were short of 400; the exact number was, he believed, 395.
 261 262 263 "That an humble address be presented to Her Majesty praying for the appointment of Henry Bullar, Montague Bere, and Charles E. Coleridge, Esqs., as Commissioners for the purpose of making inquiry into the existence of corrupt practices at Totnes."
 MR. DUTTON , as a member of the Reigate Election Committee, said, that he did not think it was possible to conceive a worse case than that of Reigate. In the borough there was no political feeling whatever; it was entirely in the hands of the Liberals; and the consequence was that the electors, to a large extent, only looked out for the man who would pay them the most money for their votes. There was, in fact, hardly a man in the place who had not been bribed.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he has received intelligence of proceedings in both Houses of Legislature of Nova Scotia favourable to the confederation of the North American Provinces?
 MR. COLVILE  said, he regretted that the hon. Gentleman should, at this time more especially, when the mining interest was in such a depressed state, bring in such a Bill. It should be remembered that three Bills, which had been brought in before with the same object, had failed, because the opinion of the House was that this description of property was of too speculative a nature to be rated. He should be happy to meet the hon. Gentleman on the whole question of rating, but he was at a loss to know why the mining interest alone any more than timber, young plantations, and even shipping, should be the object of the hon. Member's attack. He should feel it to be his duty, representing, as he did, the mining interest, to oppose the further progress of the Bill at every stage.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he must protest, with all due deference to the Chairman of the Wakefield Election Committee, against the statement that no bribery had been committed, because it had not been proved that the bribery was by the agents of the sitting Member. How was the Committee to know that the bribery had not been committed by some person who had been secretly commissioned to do so.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  explained to the hon. Gentleman the Member for East Cornwall (Mr. Kendall) that the statement he had made with regard to the defeated candidate for the borough of Helston was made upon report only. He was, however perfectly willing to accept the disclaimer and would retract with pleasure any imputations which he had made.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he believed the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) would have the support of that side of the House in taking measures for the suppression of an evil which, as the right hon. Gentleman justly remarked, disgraced this country in the eyes of the world. Therefore, he did not rise to offer the least opposition to this Motion, which he should be glad to see carried further. There were now so many technicalities to be encountered before the Committee that it was almost impossible to obtain any satisfactory and rational verdict at all, and it was quite necessary that more stringent measures should be adopted. By the Act of 1852 it was required, before anything could be done, that proof should be given before the Committee that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed. They knew that before these Bribery Committees the real state of the case was very frequently con-
 266 267
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, he had received a letter from Her Majesty's Consul at New York, informing him that he had received from the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia a communication to the effect that proceedings had taken place in both Houses of the Legislature of Nova Scotia favourable to the confederation of the North American Provinces. The majority in the Upper House was eight, and in the Lower House eleven.
 MR. HOWES , Chairman of the Lancaster Election Committee, said, that after the discussion that had taken place that evening with reference to the other reputed boroughs, he thought it was unnecessary for him to take up the time of the House by entering in detail into the circumstances connected with the last election for the borough of Lancaster. The Committee had unanimously reported that they had reason to believe that bribery extensively prevailed at the last election for Lancaster. He might, however, further add that it was the unanimous opinion of the Committee that bribery was practised there in an open, and unblushing and systematic manner. And it was admitted
 280
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  said, that the Judge of the Probate Court would be able to discharge the additional duty.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  was glad to find that the hon. Member for Devizes had met with one perfectly pure borough. He rose for the purpose of complaining that the borough he represented (Beverley) had been mentioned on several occasions as being included in the category of corrupt boroughs. Hon. Members would find by referring to a Report which had not long been issued that during the thirty-four years that had elapsed since the passing of the Reform Bill in 1832, only three petitions had been presented to that House against the borough of Beverley, and of those three two had failed, and in the third the then most Liberal Member of that House had been unseated. He thought it was a very hard case that a certain number of boroughs should be constantly paraded before the House as frightful examples of corruption, when, in fact, they were not more guilty than the others. In many instances petitions were presented against sitting Members for special purposes—he did not say that in all cases there was conspiracy; but it was well known that individuals might bring forward petitions for the purpose of extorting money from Members, and that at the last moment such petitions might be withdrawn. In the event of the law upon this subject being altered he trusted that the possibility he had referred to would not be lost sight of, and that measures
 268
 COLONEL EDWARDS  asked to whom the hon. Gentleman alluded.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN , Chairman of the Reigate Election Committee, in rising to move for a Royal Commission to inquire into the existence of corrupt practices at the last Election for the borough of Reigate, presented a petition from the inhabitants of the borough urging the necessity for such an inquiry. The petition was signed by 140 inhabitants, including the high bailiff, the mayor, the vicar, every clergyman resident in the neighbourhood, and by the chairmen of both candidates. The fact that these last-mentioned signatures were attached to the petition, in company with the signatures of a large number of the most respectable people of the borough, showed that very corrupt practices must have prevailed there, and that the more respectable among the inhabitants felt strongly aggrieved at the fact. Among the fourteen cases of bribery brought before the Committee, seven were clearly proved. They found that very many promises had been given, and that many of the electors seemed to look upon their vote as so much marketable property—in fact, it seemed to be almost a part of the political creed of a great number of the electors that they ought not to vote unless they had received a promise of some pecuniary consideration, But although the Committee were generally impressed with the corrupt state of the borough, it was impossible for them to report fully upon that point, as it was the desire of the parties who came before them rather to make out specific charges against their political opponent than to blacken the borough. The consequence was, that their conclusions must be come to rather from inference than from absolute proved facts. It was proved before the Committee that a witness named Allen Edwards stated that one Joyce, a sub-agent of the then sitting Member, had offered him £5"to vote for Gower." He promised to do so; but because he did not receive the promised £5 he voted for Mr. Richardson, a gentleman who, it appeared, had no idea of standing for the borough, as he had either proposed or seconded Mr. Monson as a candidate. It was fair to presume that eleven other persons who voted for Mr. Richardson did so from similar motives. A man named Johnson stated that Joyce had said to him, with reference to a voter named Pitt, "I did think he was square, but he wanted buy-
 274 "And there, outside the Committee-room, did you see Mr. Green?—Yes. Hid he say to you anything about voting?—Yes; he said to me, "Are you coming upon our side again? You seem backward in coming forward.'I said, 'I do not know.' He said, 'Did I not behave well to you before?' I said,'Yes' 'Well,' he said,' I will do the same to you again.' That was an answer. What did he give to you before?—I cannot exactly say what it was; it was about £10. He gave you about £10 before?—Yes. Was that for voting before?—And canvassing a little. I infer from what you say that you had voted for Mr.
 275
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, it was proposed to allow the present Judge of the Admiralty Court to retire upon his full salary.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON) , in moving for leave to introduce a Bill to extend the jurisdiction, alter and amend the procedure and practice, and regulate the establishment of the Court of Admiralty, Ireland, said, that as he understood there would be no opposition to the introduction of the Bill, he would merely content himself by saying that its object was to unite the business of the Irish Court of Admiralty with that of the Irish Court of Probate.
 MR. WHITESIDE  remarked that there could not be a better Judge for the discharge of such responsible duties than the present Judge of the Irish Court of Probate. The only question was whether the learned Judge would like to have this jurisdiction transferred to him.
 MR. BRADY  asked the House what they would do after these inquiries had taken place? What practical step was expected to result from the inquiries to be made by the Commission? Pour Commissions of Inquiry had already been moved for — he did not know how many more were to follow—but about £8,000 at least must be expended upon them. In his opinion not the slightest profitable result would follow those investigations. When the Corrupt Practices Bill was before the House he placed an Amendment upon the table to the effect that all Members, on being sworn, should deliver an account in writing of their expenses, and declare that those expenses were all that were incurred by them, or that they had paid, or intended to pay by themselves or their agents. That Amendment, however, was not accepted by the House; and that fact went a long way to prove that the House was not thoroughly honest in their intention to put down corruption. He hoped that the Government, for the protection of the public purse, would ask themselves, before they went further into these Commissions, what benefits would result from them.
 MR. BRADY  declined to answer the question. The gentleman to whom he had referred had been compelled to withdraw his petition against the sitting Member, in obedience to the request of 100 of his own supporters. ["Name, name!"] He believed that the House would accept his statement on his vouching to its truth. He did not see that the issuing of the Commission in this instance could result in any good; but he trusted that the necessity for issuing so many Commissions after one general election would have the effect of attracting attention and showing the importance of action being taken in the matter.
 MR. BRADY  objected to the appointment of Commissions, as he believed, while they were most expensive, they were practically useless for the purpose for which they were intended. There was already sufficient evidence to prove that extensive bribery had prevailed at the recent election for Totnes. Why had not the Attorney General power to prosecute in cases of corruption as palpable as those proved to have occurred at that election? The hon. Gentleman the Member for Beverley (Colonel Edwards) stated that petitions were often withdrawn at the last moment. Now, in one instance which had come to his knowledge a candidate was perfectly prepared to show that the sitting Member had been guilty of corruption; but he had been compelled to withdraw his petition.
 MR. CHEETHAM  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If the Government will suspend the operation of Part I. of the Cattle Diseases Prevention Act, relating to the slaughtering of animals, and compensation for the same after the 10th of May?
 MR. MAGUIRE  thought that the Government had acted wisely in dealing with this question, but did not approve the course adopted in ignoring some of the most material recommendations of the Commission by whom this matter had been considered. He was in favour of reforming the practice and procedure and extending the jurisdiction of the Court, and continuing it as a separate and independent Court, as recommended by the unanimous Report of the Royal Commission. He did not recommend the superannuation of the present painstaking Judge but should there be an intention on the part of the Government to superannuate that Judge, he then said it would be a more politic course to carry out that intention, and appoint a new Judge to preside over a Court whose business would be certain to be very much increased by the assimilation of its practice with that of the English Court of Admiralty, than to hand it over to the eminent Judge of the Probate Court who had sufficient business of his own to occupy his time.
 MR. PIM  said, that what was required in the Court of Admiralty was prompt decision. He thought that a remedy ought to be provided for the existing evils, of which complaint was so justly made.
 MR. KENDALL  protested against the charges of corruption which the hon. Member who had just sat down (Mr. Darby Griffith) had brought against a gentleman of high honour, who had utterly repudiated the charge that he had been guilty of corruption in any form. He was not justified in using such phrases as that both the candidates for Helston were "tarred with the same brush." It would be better if the hon. Gentleman were to speak less, and to be more careful when he did speak.
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  concurred in the opinion that the recommendations of a Commission ought, as a rule, to be accepted. He did not purpose dis-
 282
 MR. MORRISON  seconded the Motion.
 MR. BAXTER  said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the Motion of his right hon. Friend, but he could not refrain from expressing a doubt whether such an inquiry would be attended with any practical result. In the course of the eleven years during which he had had the honour of a seat in that House he recollected at least three Commissions of a similar nature— namely, those of Gloucester, 'Wakefield, and Berwick-on-Tweed, in all which instances the Commissioners reported that corrupt practices extensively prevailed. Each of those inquiries cost £1,700 or £1,800, but none of them had been followed by any legislation. He would venture to submit that they had really quite sufficient evidence before them as to the existence of electoral corruption, not only in Totnes, but in Great Yarmouth, in Reigate, and various other places. It was not into the existence of the evil that they needed to inquire, but into the remedy. He was sure hon. Gentlemen would bear him out when he said that there was no part of our constitutional system of which we ought to be so thoroughly ashamed, and which intelligent foreigners, whether from the Continent or from the other side of the Atlantic, were so apt to put their finger upon, as the continued existence of these constituencies, which, as they all knew right well, could be bought and sold in the market. Apart altogether from the question of re-distribution of seats, it appeared to him that it was competent for Gentlemen on both sides of the House, without regard to their political opinions, to try and do something to put an end to a state of things so discreditable to the country. Her Majesty's Government, if he was not mistaken, had made some promise on the subject; but if they were not prepared to legislate upon it, he knew no
 265
 MR. BAXTER  desired to explain. His proposal was that a borough should be disfranchised on the Report of an Election Committee, where it had previously been I made the subject of similar Reports.
 MR. GREGORY  concurred in the opinion that in order effectually to check bribery and corruption at elections, it would be necessary to instruct the Attorney General to prosecute all persons guilty of such illegal proceedings. He wished to point out to the House, however, that cases might arise, and frequently did arise in which bribery was practised, without either the candidate or his agents having had anything to do with it; and then constituencies got a bad name. He had risen to make these remarks because an impression seemed to him to prevail in the House that the course pursued by the Wakefield Committee was that of undue leniency. Now, only two cases of bribery were proved before the Committee, and they were not in the smallest degree attributable to the candidate, his committee, or his agents. In another case money was offered by a person who, in vulgar parlance, would be called a sporting man; he had entered into very largo bets on the result of the election petition, and he spent a great deal of money on his own account, in order that he might win them. In every other case where money was offered it was refused. He had taken the opportunity of vindicating the character of Wakefield, which he must say he thought had been very un- fairly aspersed. All the evidence that could be obtained was laid before the Committee, and it clearly proved that the last election for Wakefield was an extremely pure election.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he had listened with great attention to all that had been stated with regard to these delinquent boroughs, and it appeared to him that the only and best remedy against bribery was the ballot. He believed they might as well try to keep sparrows out of a field by stone walls, as to prevent bribery by fencing it round without the ballot.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  objected to the two Courts of Admiralty and Probate being united. The jurisdiction of the Irish Court of Admiralty might be extended beneficially, and it should be placed upon the same footing as that of England. He wished to know whether the proctors of the Irish Court of Admiralty would receive compensation in the event of that Court being thrown open to the profession generally.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : But the Report of one Committee as to the last election adds no weight to the opinions of a previous Committee. The question was as to the best means of ascertaining the fact of bribery. But where a Committee reported that there was extensive bribery, and a Commission reported to the same effect, he thought they ought to be less slow in dealing with the delinquent borough. He believed that disfranchisement in such a ease would greatly tend to check corruption.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  thought that it was quite right that in the case of a borough in which an Election Committee had reported that corrupt practices had extensively prevailed, the House should exercise the power placed in its hands, and adopt the course now proposed in order to ascertain whether the opinion of the Committee was well founded; and to take ulterior measures if it should be found that corrupt practices had exten-
 269
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that these clauses, as originally enacted,
 260
 MR. MOWBRAY , Chairman of the Great Yarmouth Election Committee, rose to propose for that borough a similar Commission to that to which the House had agreed in the case of Totnes. The borough of Great Yarmouth differed in many respects from the borough of Totnes; but, although the former, instead of being a small, was a populous and rapidly increasing borough, the same atmosphere of corruption appeared to prevail in both. A Commission, however, for Great Yarmouth was emphatically necessary, because, as he should be able to show the House, corruption had prevailed in the borough ever since the passing of the Reform Bill. There had been repeated inquiries into the elections at, Great Yarmouth, and the House had even disfranchised a certain portion of the electors of
 270 "With reference to the number of the working classes on the register it is stated that a great many persons who came within that description occupy houses at and above £10 rental, whose wives let their houses or apartments to visitors in the summer months, living in some portion of the house, or managing to keep a room or closet to themselves, so as to keep on the register and possess the franchise, which in Yarmouth is considered of some importance." 271 272 s
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY , as a Member of the Wakefield Election Committee, corrobarated the statement of the hon, Member for Galway (Mr. Gregory). It was utterly impossible to connect the sitting Member or his committee with any of the cases of bribery and corruption which were proved to have occurred. It was not proved that bribery had been offered or committed by any agents of the sitting Member or by any of his committee.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  desired to know what was to be done with the present Judge of the Admiralty Court—whether he was to discharge other duties, or whether he was to be superannuated.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE , in moving to introduce a Bill to amend the law in England and Wales with reference to the Assessment of Mines to the relief of the Poor, said, that as he understood the right hon. Gentleman the President of the Board of Trade had no objection to its introduction, he should reserve any observations he had to make upon it until the second reading.
 MR. BUXTON  said, that the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) in the course of his speech had said that if the Bill passed the question could not rest there. His answer to that was—to use an expression that had become familiar during the last week or two—that the hon. Gentleman did not "know the men with whom he had to deal." They were practical men, and would not proceed on theoretical notions—they wanted to get rid of a cruel practical grievance, and he was therefore surprised to hear the hon. Gentleman use as an argument that if they legalized marriage with a deceased wife's sister it would be necessary to go farther and permit a man to marry his wife's grandmother. The advocates of this measure wished to bring the marriage laws into consonance with the moral sense of the country. To show that the feeling of the country was in favour of such marriages, he had only to refer to the fact that this House had between thirty and forty times recorded its decision in their favour, and petitions signed by upwards of 1,100,000 persons had been presented in favour of legalizing them. The hon. Member for Northamp-
 312 313
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, that he must apologize to the House for
 322 323 324 325 326 327
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  approved of the object and principle of the Bill, as he thought it was only fair that the clergy of the Church of Scotland should be assisted in the way that it proposed. He had, therefore, no objection to make to the second reading of the Bill. The only remark he had to make on the measure was this—that some provision ought to be made for those cases of parishes where the population had gone far beyond the present means of its spiritual provision. Provision ought to be made for those cases, which would not probably be very numerous; and the provision might be placed under the control of the Commissioners.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that his hon. Friend the Member for East Surrey was quite mistaken if he thought that the Scriptural argument was universally or at all given up. He could say that it was not so, and if hon. Members on his side of the House did not oppose the social revolution on religious grounds, that abstentation proceeded from the delicacy which they felt in thrusting upon the House matters of such a solemn nature as direct references to Scripture involved. This delicacy and disinclination were inured in their minds—perhaps too much so—by the consideration that they were mostly supporters of that form of religion which happened to be the Established Church; and they feared, therefore, that for them to dwell upon their own doctrinal views in such a debate might savour of a desire to enforce religion by the secular arm. With this explanation, he would make good to assert, that the Scriptural argument was not abandoned, and he would proceed to examine the question in its social and practical aspects. The purposed alteration was, he contended, an attempt on the part of a very small minority to tyrannize over the feelings and wishes of the large majority. His hon. Friend attempted to prove that these marriages were not contrary to the Word of God, by the assertion that Great Britain and Ireland were the only Protestant countries in Europe in which such marriages were not allowed. He took him at his word, he accepted the challenge, and he repeated the hon. Member's statement, that Great Britain and Ireland were the only Protestant countries of Europe in which such marriages were not allowed, What of that? Great Britain and Ireland were also the only Protestant countries where marriage with an own niece, a brother's or a sister's daughter were not also allowed. The two prohibitions universally hung together, and it would be impossible to relax one without directly leading on to the relaxation of the other. Again, in all Roman Catholic countries marriage with a wife's sister was also permitted by dispensation. So equally by dispensation marriage with a niece was tolerated. In a word in Protestant countries wive's sisters and own nieces were marriageable without dispensation, and in Roman Catholic countries, with dispensation, but in either case the two relationships stood or fell together. His hon. Friend had professed that the present
 314 315 316
 MR. SHERRIFF  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, What course has been pursued in reference to a case which occurred near Redditch, Worcestershire? The facts had been reported in the newspapers, and were to the effect that Mr. Gray, a minister of the Church of England and a magistrate in the county of Worcester, had sent a child named Emily Jane Ballard, to the lock-up, where she was detained from Monday to Friday, on the charge of having purloined a penny from the pocket of another child. The case was investigated by the magistrates at Petty Sessions, and dismissed.
 MR. MONK  trusted that the House-would grant him the indulgence usually accorded to Members addressing them for the first time. It would have been more agreeable to him to have given a silent vote on this question, especially as he could not suppose that he should be able to adduce any new argument or throw any new light upon the question; but feeling strongly upon the matter, he felt that it was his duty to say a few words upon it. Notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. Member who had just spoken, he felt assured that the majority of Englishwomen viewed with alarm these oft-repeated attempts to induce the House to reform the marriage laws and to re-arrange the boundaries of the Prohibited Degrees. He would shortly state his reasons for voting against the second reading of the Bill. He was glad to find that the question had not been treated in a party or political spirit, and he trusted that it would never be regarded in that light. He entertained a strong opinion, almost amounting to conviction, that these marriages were prohibited by Divine law, that they were at variance with the best interests of society, and were opposed to those purer and higher principles of morality that were introduced under the Christian dispensation. This being so, he hoped that the House would pause before it consented to relax a prohibition which was undoubtedly founded upon the Levitical law, and which obtained force throughout Christendom for more than fifteen centuries. The hon. Member for
 306 vice versâ, ab initio. 307 "He was afraid there were some persons who regarded this as a liberal measure, but to him it appeared a retrograde movement, which would carry them back from Christianity to Judaism, not however to stop there, but to go on until it landed them in a state of nature."
 MR. KNATCHBULL - HUGESSEN  said, a question which so intimately concerns the social relations of society has been well described both by the learned Gentleman who moved the second reading, and the hon. Mover of the Amendment, as a question of no party character; indeed, Sir, it is one far removed from the atmosphere of party passion and political prejudice, Members of each of the two great political parties will doubtless vote for and against the measure; and, although Members of Her Majesty's Government may equally speak on either side, it must be clearly understood that they so speak each
 299 300 301 302 303 304 305
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that some of the most enlightened members of the Church of England were in favour of the proposed change in the marriage law. He belonged to a party which acknowledged only Scriptural authority in this matter, and he believed he spoke the sentiments of the whole body of Nonconformists when he said that their opinion was favourable to the principle of this Bill. The question ought to be considered as one specially affecting the welfare of the poor man.
 MR. HUNT  said, he cheerfully acknowledged the tone and temper of the remarks of the hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Thomas Chambers) in introducing the Bill, and hoped that he himself and those who might follow him would observe his example in that respect. He should be sorry to wound the feelings of any individuals who thought differently from him on this subject. He had himself private friends whose personal feelings and happiness were mixed up with this question, and he had received letters from persons most anxious that it should be settled in the manner proposed in the Bill of the hon. and learned Gentleman. He could not withhold his compassion from persons so situated; but in a question of such public importance no consideration of individual feeling should be allowed to operate. It was a great public and social question, and hon. Members had to discharge their duty as legislators, to put aside private feeling, and do what they thought was right for the public at large. The hon. and learned Member said the Bill was not in any respect hostile to any particular individual, or any particular class of individuals. But he (Mr. Hunt) maintained that the Bill was hostile to the interests of the whole community. He asked the House to sanction a measure which would be inimical to the whole country for the sake of a small number of individuals who, with their eyes open, had broken the existing law. He believed the House would never have heard of this measure, or at all events would not have seen the extensive agitation that bad been got up in its favour, had there not been wealthy individuals personally interested; the consequence of which had been that large sums of money had been spent in getting up petitions, and advertisements had even ap-
 293 A laugh. 294 295 onus probandi 296 297 v. 298
 MR. COLERIDGE : Sir, it is a great satisfaction that this question is not treated as in any degree a party question. Rising to speak after the right hon. Baronet the Member for Petersfield (Sir William Jolliffe) who tells us that he supports the Bill of my hon. and learned Friend, I desire to explain in a few words why I vote for the Amendment of the hon. Gentleman opposite the Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt.) 318 319 320 321
 MR. PIM  said, the Bill would operate to the detriment of the best interests of the country. On the Scriptural argument be did not think he ought to use his own opinion as a test; but the fact that the prohibition was supposed to rest on the Canon law was likely to have prevented the Dissenters from taking a fair view of the subject. Of the argument drawn from the practice of foreign countries all he would say was that if such practice permitted marriage in the case now under consideration so also did it permit marriage in other cases, the introduction of which into England no one would venture to seek. All the arguments in favour of legalizing marriage with a deceased wife's sister went too far. The arguments equally applied to a deceased wife's mother. He should certainly vote against the second reading.
 MR. LEATHAM  said, it had been often said England was the only place where real domestic happiness was known; and he believed that if this Bill were allowed to pass that statement would have to be materially qualified. He believed that by far the great majority of the women of this country had an intense and instinctive dislike to the marriages which it was now sought to legalize, and this he thought was quite a sufficient reason why they should pause before they consented to pass this Bill.
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he concurred in most of the remarks that had
 333
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that having frequently expressed his opinion on this subject, he should not repeat his arguments on this occasion. He thought that looking to the interests of society, the balance of argument was in favour of the alteration of the existing law. He did not believe that the House was competent to decide upon the scriptural part of the question. Each hon. Gentleman must form his own opinion on that branch of the question, and take the course which his conscience dictated. When the subject was last under discussion, he felt strongly, and he still felt, that it was undesirable repeatedly to introduce a measure of this character unless a probability of its passing existed; because the effect of keeping this question continually under notice was to induce people to contract these marriages in the hope of their being legalized, the result of which was much domestic discomfort and misery. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Marylebone (Mr. Thomas Chambers) might consider himself justified
 308
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that he had called on the magistrates for a Report upon the case, and they sent him a full statement of all the circumstances. On reading the statement, he thought that the case required the attention of the Lord Chancellor, with whom alone rested the power of removing a magistrate from the Commission of the Peace, and, without expressing any opinion of his own, he sent to the noble and learned Lord all the papers connected with the subject. A few days ago he received the following letter from the Lord Chancellor:—
 "I have the honour to inform you that upon receipt of your letter of the 5th instant, inclosing a statement by the Justices of Redditch Petty Sessions, as to the case of Emily Jane Ballard, a little girl charged with stealing a penny, and the con-duet of the Rev. George Robert Gray, vicar of Inkberrow, in reference thereto, I wrote to that gentleman pointing out the great impropriety of his conduct in ordering the girl to be taken to Redditch, without any information on oath or legal warrant, and to be there confined for four days without bail. I also requested to know what explanation he had to offer. Mr. Gray has since forwarded to me a long letter of explanation, in which, while admitting the facts as reported by the other Justices, he urges that he was actuated by the most conscientious motives, and trusts that his good intentions and long services may be taken as a set-off against the single error in judgment. Upon consideration of the whole case, and taking into account Mr. Gray's long services on the Bench, and believing that he was actuated by no improper motives, I have felt myself justified, notwithstanding the great indiscretion of which he has been guilty, in abstaining from the extreme measure of removing him from the Commission of the Peace. I have accordingly written to him intimating that in the circumstances of the case I should refrain from taking further action, though highly condemning his conduct."'
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON , in moving the second reading of the Bill, said, it was intended to supplement the insufficient receipts of many of the parochial clergy of Scotland by utilizing existing Church property. By the present law, no one could grant a lease of glebe lands for a longer term than his own life; hence, it was impossible that land could be properly farmed, as a tenant could not safely make improvements. The glebes in Scotland consisted on an average of five or six acres, and were originally intended to supply the household wants of the minister. Now, however, the immediate want of a horse and a few cattle was not felt, as those things could be readily obtained by purchase; but the cost of living was increased. It seemed desirable, therefore, that the provision to be made for the ministers of the Church should be utilized as much as possible. It was in the neighbourhood of rising towns where it
 331 332
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS , in reply, said, that he was astonished, after the principle of this Bill had been sanctioned by the most eminent Judges and members of the episcopal bench, that those who now supported this Bill should be subjected to the sweeping censure which bad been pronounced by the Attorney General. If they carried the Bill, would the Attorney General and his friends have any objection to such marriages in Scotland being declared valid? It was his (Mr. Chamber's) desire to validate these marriages in every part of the Empire, His hon. and learned Friend below him (Mr. Coleridge) said that there was no instance of a dispensation being granted for the marriage with a deceased wife's sister until that granted in the case of the King of Portugal. The hon. and learned Member for Dundalk (Sir George Bowyer),how-ever, had referred him to a case in which such a dispensation had been granted long before that time. Why, for 300 years before 1835 there was practically a standing dispensation for all such marriages, and there was nothing whatever to show that any public scandal or any relaxation of the morals of the country had been produced in consequence. He fully believed that the provisions of the Bill were not contrary to Divine law—had it been shown that they were he would have given it up. The Attorney General had dwelt forcibly upon the moral results of the Bill. Now it was his (Mr. Chamber's) conviction, if this Bill were passed, that so far from any of the evils predicted from it arising a vast deal of good to society generally would be produced.
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that considering the illustrious men who had preceded him in the advocacy of this cause, he had undertaken the conduct of the measure, not spontaneously, but on account of having been very much pressed to do so by those who were favourable to the proposed legislation. For a great many years the question had been before Parliament and the country, and as the result of discussion usually was to elicit the truth and lead to a satisfactory settlement of debated questions, he was inclined to believe that a similar effect would be produced in the present case. He was aware that the subject was a difficult and delicate one, but he trusted to be able to bring it under the consideration of the House without trespassing beyond the fair limits of discussion. It was an advantage in dealing with this subject that it was not a party or sectarian question. The supporters of the present Bill did not wish to coerce any man's conscience, but all they desired was that the law should be put in such a state that a man's freedom of action should not be limited according to other men's consciences. What was now asked for was demanded  simpliciter, The Times 285 286 287 288 "Whereas marriage between persons within the prohibited degrees was voidable only by sentence of the Ecclesiastical Courts during the lifetime of the parties thereto, and it is unreasonable that the status of the children of parents within the prohibited degrees of affinity should remain so long unsettled"— "It is fitting that all marriages which may hereafter be celebrated within the prohibited degrees of affinity and consanguinity shall,  ipso facto, 289 ab initio, 290 291 292
 SIR WILLIAM HEATHCOTE  confessed he was much disappointed at what had fallen from the right hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department, because, if he recollected rightly, on the previous occasion when this question was before the House the right hon. Gentleman stated that he doubted very much if the interests of society would be served by the question being agitated year after year in the House without the prospect of some Bill being carried; and he said that—
 "If the House should refuse to accede to his hon. Friend's (Mr. M. Milnes) proposal, or if it should assent to it by only a small majority, and there be no real prospect of an alteration in the law, he thought that repeated agitation of the question would only be calculated to encourage these marriages and bring misery upon those who enter into them." "I throw out these suggestions with a view of guarding myself against being considered pledged under all circumstances to support a similar proposition in future." 309 310 311
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he should not have risen but for a remark of the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hunt) which had put the question entirely on the ground of sentimentality. He joined issue with him on that point, and contended, that however much the sentimental argument might apply to upper-class marriages of the kind referred to, it did not apply to the marriages of the poorer classes. This was very much a poor man's question. True, statistics showed that few marriages of this sort were contracted among the poor; but that was because the parties were not brought into such intimacy as they were in other classes. By depriving the poor man of the opportunity of marrying his deceased wife's sister they were doing a great wrong. Their object was to remedy the evil inflicted by the Act of 1835, and
 317
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Why the towns of Weston-super-Mare, Shepton-Mallett, Wellington, and Chard, co. Somerset, which have more than 5,000 inhabitants, have been omitted from the "Return of the names of Municipal Boroughs, &c, of 5,000 inhabitants and upwards, and which are not now represented in Parliament?"
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  said, that the Returns quoted by the right hon. Gentleman differed very much from those which he (Mr. Neville-Grenville) had received.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in reply, said, a great deal of the information required by the Returns was not to be found in the offices. It was not necessary to introduce any Bill for equalizing the salaries of sheriff's substitute. That might be regulated by the Treasury without any Act, and was at the present time under their consideration.
 LORD STANLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, When the Report of the Jamaica Commissioners will be laid upon the table of the House?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Dodson—After the warm debates and the sharp crisis of last week it is with great relief and satisfaction that the Government, and that I individually, come to deal with important public business of a nature which we hope and think can involve no subject likely to lead to angry controversy. It will, indeed, be my duty to enter upon points, in the course of the remarks I have to make, which, as I think, possess an interest for all in this House, and especially for those who are connected with the land and fixed property of the country. I hope, however, from the nature of the proposals I have to make, and indeed I feel convinced upon the matter, that it can only be through my own negligence or inadvertence if anything which falls from me should possibly come into conflict with the feelings or opinions of any hon. Gentleman opposite, and I would beg, if it be permitted to me, to apologize in advance for any such error should it occur. 366 367 368 369 s. d. s. d. 370 d. d. d. d. d. 371 372 373 374 375 We 4d. 376 377 378 f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. f. 379 25 380 ad valorem s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 381 s. s. d. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. s. d. s. d. 382 s. d. 383 d. d. d. d. 384 385 386 d. s. s. 387 d. 388 
 
 1. Exchequer Bonds to the extent of were exchanged by reissue. £1,000,000 
 2. Exchequer Bills paid in for Revenue £783,000 £2,555,000 
 Purchased with surplus revenue 877,000 
 Sent in at the exchanges 895,000 
 3. Cancelled by Land Tax 59,000 
 4. Stock purchased with surplus revenue 1,395,000 
 5. Capital redeemed in Terminable Annuities 1,620,000 
 Total £5,629,000 389 390 391 392 393 394 395 396 397 "Parva metu primo; mox sese attollit in auras, Ingrediturque solo,et caput inter nubila condit." 398 399 400 401 402 403 404 405 406 407 408 409
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he should propose to proceed with these Resolutions on Monday, unless there should be a desire for extended discussion, in which case he would postpone them. The first thing on Monday would be to consider the Re-distribution of Seats Bill and the Reform Bills for Scotland and Ireland. He begged to move that the Chairman report Progress.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he did not propose to apportion any of the surplus to this purpose. His hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury (Mr. Childers) would, however, take the matter in hand, and he would, he hoped, be able to mature a measure which would satisfy the very reasonable wishes entertained on this subject.
 MR. NEVILLE-GRENVILLE  reminded the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the immense amount of damage inflicted by untaxed dogs upon the agricultural communities. He wished to inquire whether the right hon. Gentleman was satisfied with the operation he had performed some years ago upon the shooting licences? He reduced the duty upon those licences in the hope that they would increase so much in number that the country would not loss by the reduction. Was the right hon. Gentleman satisfied with the change, or did he contemplate any alteration?
 LORD STANLEY : I confess I do not quite understand how the right hon. Gentleman calculated the capitalized value of the Public Debt. The Chancellor of the Exchequer estimated that debt at £779,000,000 and some odd thousands. It is made up of three different items—namely, the Terminable Annuities, the
 415
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes; for this year.
 MR. HENLEY  concurred in the opinion that it would be better not to discuss the financial condition of the country until they had the matter more in detail before them; but he must say he thought the statement of the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the future was somewhat alarming. If—he would not say the prophecies of the right hon. Gentleman, for he based them on calculation—but his speculations were realized, things should go very differently from what they had gone for the last twenty years. We were now, as it were, only "picking ourselves up," and it would be necessary to do great things if what the Chancellor of the Exchequer contemplated should be done. But the impression left upon his mind was
 421
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was sorry that the hon. Baronet was not present when the House fully discussed the provisions of the Bill, and when all the points were held to be satisfactorily disposed of. It was perfectly true that the superannuation clause in question was not exactly the same as other superannuation clauses; but the Auditor did not hold the same position as other officers, seeing that he was subject to certain regulations in the matter of superannuation allowance, which provided for him
 422
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  did not think the Secretary to the Treasury had met the argument of the hon. Baronet (Sir Colman O'Loghlen). Under the present clause there would be considerable difficulty in getting rid of an officer who had become incapacitated for his duties by no fault of his own. Parliament would hesitate to commit the cruelty that would be involved in exercising its power to remove from office a man who had served nearly fifteen years merely because sudden infirmity rendered him unable to discharge his duties. In the case of a man of small means such a removal would be sure to be followed by an appeal to the Government to do something for the man so removed. He hoped the Government would reconsider the case under discussion.
 MR. CRAWFORD  appealed to the hon. Secretary to the Treasury to judge the case by his own, seeing that he would be entitled to a pension for five years' services, whether rendered consecutively or at interrupted periods.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, they ought to consider how far an officer appointed under this Act differed from other officers. A Judge had to go through a laborious and an expensive training; he had to practise as a lawyer, and he was not appointed a Judge until he had attained a high position and was in receipt of a large income from his exertions. He gave up that income to receive a smaller one from the State; knowing that, if he were to resign the latter, he could never re-acquire his former practice. Under these circumstances, it was but fair that he should receive a superannuation allowance. A man also required a considerable training to superintend the financial operations of the country as Secretary of the Treasury; his duties were of a most onerous and burdensome description. In his case a pension was therefore justified. If a member of the Civil Service got appointed under this Act, he could claim a superannuation allowance under the Civil Service Act. The present Controller General was a Member of Parliament; but he had not to serve a Parliamentary apprenticeship in the auditing of accounts. He simply preferred his appointment to being in Parliament; he therefore had no claim to superannuation;
 423
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply to the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn, that he had taken the course which was invariably done in estimating the amount of the National Debt, by taking the current value of the funded debt. There were two considerations which it was required should
 418 419 420
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, his learned Friend the Lord Advocate having brought to his knowledge the fact that some apprehensions with regard to foreshores had been excited by the language of this clause, which was in reality an interpretation clause, to obviate any possible misunderstanding he proposed to omit it, and to introduce corresponding alterations into Clause 7.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, any question which might be in dispute as to the title to the Crown lands, or indeed any land, would have to be decided in the ordinary Courts of Law; they only took care in this Bill that they transferred from one Governmental Department to another for the public interest such rights and interests as the Crown actually possessed. Any dispute as to what those rights might be would have to be settled in another way. The rights of others would not be taken away or at all prejudicially affected by anything contained in this Bill.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in moving that the House go into Committee upon the Bill, said, that a Bill had been introduced in a previous Session for the
 428 conseil de famille, 429 bonâ fide
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  thought that the House before it issued the Writ should not overlook one or two important passages in the Report of the Committee on the Nottingham Election Petition. The Committee reported that violent and tumultuous proceedings took place at the last election for Nottingham, and that on the day of polling especially, bands of men armed with sticks committed various outrages on persons and property, and created alarm which was not without its influence on the result of the election. The fact was that for a fortnight before the election the town was in the possession of the mob,
 431
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that as a Member of the Nottingham Election Committee, he had been requested, in the unavoidable absence of the Chairman, to express its views in regard to the issue of the Writ. The Committee sat for some twenty-nine days, and a mass of evidence was adduced before them to prove that there was a great deal of disturbance in the town; but they were of opinion that that disturbance did not amount to riot in the strict acceptation of the term. It was a disturbance created by a mob, headed by a class of persons who had lately become familiar to them all under the name of "lambs," and among whom they had no evidence that there was one single elector in the interest of one particular party. Certainly, that mob attempted to prevent the electors from exercising their franchise, and instances were brought before the Committee in which two electors were prevented from voting. These, beyond a doubt, were circumstances connected with an election which ought to be highly reprobated by the House; but they were not sufficient in themselves to induce the Committee to report that they formed, in its opinion, a ground for the appointment of a Royal Commission to inquire into the circumstances of the election. On the other hand, the election of one of the late sitting Members was declared void by the Committee on account of proceedings which the Committee thought extremely improper—namely, the employment of the inordinate number of 666 voters as paid canvassers, &c. That, the Committee thought, was simply a flimsy disguise for bribery. The House was aware that the employment of voters at an election was not a corrupt practice unless it was carried to an improper extent; and in that particular case the excuse was that, owing to
 433
 MR. E. P. BOUVERIE  wished to say that although this Bill had passed off very quietly a very great improvement would be effected by it. For years a violent controversy had been going on between certain persons and the Commissioners of Woods and Forests. The latter had always considered themselves as trustees of the Crown, and had always acted with the view of making money out of the foreshores, instead of putting them to the best use for the public advantage. The result had been that a vast amount of soreness and ill will had been created by this method of administering the Crown lands, and many persons had had just cause of complaint. He apprehended that the transfer of the administration of the foreshores to the Board of Trade would be not for the pecuniary advantage of the Crown but for the public advantage. The public were greatly indebted to Her Majesty's Government for taking the matter up.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  wished to know whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer intended to do anything with the tax on dogs?
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that, by a Standing Order of that House any Bill which authorized the erection of gas works within 300 yards of any house should be preceded by notice of such erection to the occupiers of such house. That Standing Order did not, however, apply in the case referred to by the noble Lord; but the Imperial Gas Company's Bill contained a clause prohibiting the erection of their works within 300 yards of Victoria Park. He was of opinion that there was no good case for alleging that the noxious influence of the proposed works would extend to the Park. If the manufacture of gas was carried out in a proper and careful manner, no noxious results would be felt in a place at a distance of 300 yards from the works. The effluvium came from the refuse—from gas tar, ammoniacal liquor, and the lime used in purifying the gas. The right course in these cases was to have in the Bill clauses to prevent the accumulation of such noisome refuse; but he did not think they could oppose the erection of the works.
 MR. COWPER  replied, that his Department had no  locus standi
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, If it is true that a Bill is before Parliament which will sanction the erection of Gas Works within a short distance of Victoria Park; and, if so, whether it is his intention to oppose that Bill?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he must express his opinion that it was outrageous cruelty to put cholera patients into a ship or to keep them in one.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had ascertained from the Secretary to the Treasury that he had not been present at both of the explanations given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon this subject. Under such circumstances, it would be unfair to press the hon. Gentleman for an answer in the absence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; otherwise, it had been his intention to move, by way of Amendment, a proviso at the end of the clause that Her Majesty should not be entitled to grant the use of
 427
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to move that Mr. Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a New Writ for the electing of two Burgesses to serve in this present Parliament for the Town and County of the Town of Nottingham, in the room of Sir Robert Juckes Clifton, baronet, and Samuel Morley, Esq., whose elections have been determined to be void.
 MR. AYRTON  said, that before the Question was put, he was anxious to call the attention of the Secretary of the Treasury to the provision in this Bill by which it appeared that the estate of Claremont was to be granted to Her Majesty. He thought that if the attention of the House had been directed to this provision at an earlier period it would have seen considerable reasons for not proceding with the Bill unless the Government had consented to withdraw the clause; because it appeared to him that in this respect the Bill was a violation of some very important constitutional provisions which had been made by Parliament for preventing, he would not say extravagance, but, at all events, abuses from creeping into the administration of certain public affairs. A long time ago the House had to take into consideration the manner in which certain revenues which were placed at the disposal of the Sovereign had been administered. In the middle of the reign of King George III. Mr. Burke brought under the consideration of Parliament the subject of the Administration of the Civil List with a view to greater economy than had previously prevailed, and one of the enactments which he proposed, and which was ultimately adopted, was that the Crown should never grant any sum exceeding £1,200 a year except upon a Message
 424 Geo. "That it is the bounden duty of the responsible advisers of the Crown to recommend to His Majesty for grants of Pensions on the Civil List such persons only as have just claims on the Royal beneficence, or who, by their personal services to the Crown, by the performance of duties to the public, or by their useful discoveries in science and attainments in literature and the arts, have merited the gracious consideration of their Sovereign and the gratitude of their country."—[3  Hansard, 425
 MR. AYRTON  said, that having pressed upon the Chancellor of the Exchequer the expediency of abolishing the mileage duty, he must express his satisfaction that the right hon. Gentleman now proposed a reduction of that impost. While the right hon. Gentleman still retained the last farthing of the duty, it appeared that he reserved to himself the right of re-considering the subject on a future occasion, with a view to a final adjustment. With regard to Terminable Annuities, he thought the hon Gentleman opposite (Mr. Hubbard) had fallen under some misapprehension when he spoke of them as unsaleable. If they had lately been so, the reason was that they had had so few years to run that nobody could deal with them for practical purposes. When Terminable Annuities had a long period to run they had just as good a sale as Consols, and were much sought after by a large class of investors who wished to have a better income than the Funds would yield, and were yet prepared to incur the risk of their income lapsing at a definite time. If granted for a sufficiently lengthened period to meet the requirements of a large part of the community, Terminable Annuities would not only be perfectly saleable but would be much desired. Their predecessors had acted not unwisely in fixing upon sixty years as the proper time for these Annuities; and if it was now seriously intended to reduce the National Debt, it was a question whether a considerable portion of Consols might not be converted into Terminable Annuities of fifty or sixty years' duration. He understood the Chan-
 416
 MR. AYRTON  said, he had no interest in the politics of Nottingham, neither did it matter to him whether that town had a Member or not; but he wished to remind the House that the Report of the Election Committee was presented on the 20th of April last, and, therefore, the House had had twelve days to think over the Report, which appeared to him to be quite sufficient time to enable any hon. Gentleman to form an opinion on the subject. As far as the question, then, before them was concerned, the Committee had found two important facts—namely, that no such case of general riot had been proved as would make the last election for Nottingham altogether null and void on that account, and that, in the opinion of the Committee, corrupt practices had not extensively prevailed at that election. When the Committee had reported to that effect, it was strange that a Motion should have been made by the hon. Baronet in an entirely opposite sense. The hon. Baronet had quite time enough to consider the Report of the Committee, and if he thought that the Writ should be suspended he should have moved that the proceedings of the Committee be printed. As he had not taken that course, he hoped the hon. Baronet would not persevere with his Amendment.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, he had given notice of a question on the same subject, and as he did not think the explanation of the right hon. Gentleman very satisfactory, he would ask it. He wished to know, Whether, if the report be true that it is proposed to erect Gas Works, covering twenty-seven acres, in close proximity to Victoria Park, he is prepared to take steps for the protection of that important place of public recreation?
 MR. LEFROY  said, he hoped the House would allow him to say a few words on behalf of his father, more particularly as he felt that the right hon. and learned Attorney General for Ireland, who was supposed to be a supporter of the law of the country, and therefore of its administrators, had failed in the performance of that duty to do justice to his (Mr. Lefroy's) relative. He would not on that occasion trespass on their attention with any evidence as to the competency of the Chief Justice, but would confine himself to the point now before them. The event referred to took place in August last year,
 354 "Mr. Molloy stood up and stated that he had a matter of law to urge upon the Court, on behalf of the prisoner. All the evidence showed that the act was committed and the body found at the Tipperary side of the river, whereas the venue had been laid in the King's County. The Attorney General: I admit the fact, but by the 9  Geo. v. Notes of Cases, Criminal Law, 355 "I received your letter of inquiry by this day's post. It is a mistake to say that the Lord Chief Justice at Tullamore was unable to read a sentence written in large handwriting. He does not even use spectacles. I have spoken to the Deputy Clerk of the Crown of the King's County, and, from what he says, and my own recollection, the occurrence at the assizes was thus:—The Deputy Clerk of the Crown always has in a book before him entries of the different forms of oaths, and of the form of sentence in capital cases, &c, and from the first circuit the Chief Justice went, to the present day, whenever a prisoner was to be sentenced to death, a copy of the formal words of the sentence, with a blank for the day of execution, was invariably placed before the Judge on the bench. In the case in question, during the address of the Chief Justice to the prisoner, it occurred to the Judge when he approached that part where the day for execution is named, that in consequence of a point being saved for the Court of Appeal, it became necessary, instead of the usual time, to fix a day after the Dublin Commission, which was then close at hand, and sufficiently remote to enable the other Judges to attend in the Court of Appeal, and although he had previously determined on the day, he had not any memorandum of it, and was obliged to refer to an almanac, which occasioned some delay. I have no note of the trial, and nothing occurred at the time to attract my attention to any defect in the conduct of it, so as to fix it on my mind. Of course I could not see what was before the Judge on the bench, although I was nearer to it than any other of the counsel, but I believe this account of the transaction is perfectly correct. The Chief Justice had previously sentenced another man to death for murder at the same assizes, so that he must have been familiar with the form, and, from all that I have heard or seen, I have no doubt that Mr. Bryan's informant is in error."
 MR. LEFROY  said, he wished to make one more observation if the House would allow him to do so. The Chief Justice, when he returned to Dublin, assembled the Judges, and brought before them this point of law as to which he had himself given an opinion contrary to that of Chief Baron Joy. The Judges having fully con-
 356
 MR. CUMMING BRUCE  said, he wished to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether his attention has been directed to the Sheriff Court Returns called for by the hon. Member for Montrose in 1863, laid upon the table of the House, and ordered to be printed during the present Session; and whether it is his intention to recommend to Her Majesty's Government, or submit to Parliament, any measure to remedy the inadequacy and inequalities in the salaries of some of the Sheriff's Substitute, as apparent in these Returns?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE , in reply, said, that the Question ought rather to have been put to his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury. No doubt the Report ought to have been presented, and he should take care that it was presented.
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of the Government to continue, by Order in Council, the slaughtering Clauses of the Cattle Diseases Act of 1866 after the 12th of May, and whether any special exemptions from slaughter of diseased animals would be made for the purposes of testing the effect of chloroform, or any other supposed curative treatment?
 MR. READ  said, he would also beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether there is any objection to the introduction of a general Clause in future "Annual Turnpike Acts Continuance Acts," that in cases where the toll-houses do not encroach upon the road the first offer be made under the Act the 3  Geo. 361
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  wished to know when the Return for which he had moved upon Terminable Annuities would be presented.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  thought that the Bill would effect a great improvement in the present system, for it often happened that the law of forfeiture operated most cruelly, but he would suggest a
 430
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, the Report which was received at the commencement of the present week, and the evidence which accompanies it, are exceedingly voluminous—so much so, that what we have already received will occupy from 1,500 to 2,000 pages of our usual Parliamentary
 365
 MR. WARNER  trusted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would reconsider the existing duty upon omnibuses. Less than £30,000 would enable him to take off the duty altogether. This tax was nothing more than a protective duty in
 412
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  expressed his great satisfaction at having heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer express his approval of the principle of taxing the manufactured article in preference to the raw material as shown by his proposition with regard to the timber duties. It was his (Sir FitzRoy Kelly's) intention upon a future evening to submit a question relating to this subject to the House, and he now asked his right hon. Friend to appoint a time that would be most convenient for such a discussion. Perhaps it would be more appropriate when the question of the malt duties would be under the consideration of the House. He should submit a Motion to the effect that it was expedient—if not at the present moment, at some other period more convenient—to substitute a duty upon beer instead of the duty upon malt.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Why the Report on Irish Deep Sea Fisheries has not been presented, which should have been done in January last, as directed by the Act 5 & 6  Vict.?
 MR. KNIGHT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether he will lay upon the table Copies of the Proceedings of the Commission appointed by the Government of India to investigate and report upon the cases of the several claimants against the late State of Oude, and of the Report of the Commission on the claim of the Representative of the late Captain Thomas Edwards, deceased?
 MR. BRYAN  said, he wished to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, If his attention has been drawn to a statement publicly made to the effect that the Lord Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench in Ireland, when passing sentence of death on a prisoner at Tullamore last year, was unable to read the sentence, although it was written for him in large handwriting, and that his Lordship required and had the assistance of some other person in the performance of that solemn duty, and whether that statement is substantially correct?
 MR. BRYAN  said, he must beg to explain that he had put the Question in consequence of a speech in the other House. If the right hon. and learned Gentleman would look at the Votes he would see upon them a Motion which he (Mr. Bryan) intended to bring forward on an early day, on going into Supply, in order that the whole subject might be properly ventilated. He could assure him that he had not taken the subject up in the light of a personal matter, and he would pledge himself to submit his Motion to the House at as early a period as possible.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that the late election at Nottingham was one of a very exceptional and peculiar character, and highly deserving the serious notice of that House. It was desirable that the writ for a new election should not be issued till hon. Members had had an opportunity of making up their minds as to the course which ought to be pursued under the special circumstances of the case; and they ought to have some intimation from the Government as to the steps which it thought it would be proper to take in the matter. If the Amendment were pressed to a division he should certainly give it his support.
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he also rose to order. He wished to ask whether the right hon. and learned Gentleman has moved the adjournment of the House?
 MR. BARNETT  said, he quite agreed with those who had spoken in approbation of the Bill; but he thought that in restoring to convicts the property which had been committed to the care of the administrator or curator, all that was just and requisite was done, and he did not think it expedient that the convict should, as a matter of course, have the benefit of such accumulation as might have accrued during the management by the administrator or curator. Any improvement of that kind in the property ought to go towards the payment of the expense to which the country was put in consequence of the convict's crime.
 MR. CHILDERS  was bound to explain, in justice to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, that since the passing of the Act of 1851 they had had no option but to treat the property as a source of revenue. He believed that these gentlemen had discharged their duties faithfully.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, there would be an obvious inconvenience in giving a pledge that those gentlemen should have secured to them an absolute priority; but the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, with whom the matter would rest, were never in the habit of dealing harshly with residents in the neighbourhood of the property under their management.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he was afraid he could not give any better explanation than had been given the other evening by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer when he introduced the Bill. That was regarded by a full House as a satisfactory explanation. The clause was absolutely necessary. The object of it was to give her Majesty a residence in addition to those which she at present possessed. His right hon. Friend had entered so fully into the question that he did not believe it would be proper in him (Mr. Childers) to add to or to take from that explanation.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Return was ready, and he would make inquiry why it had not been presented.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, that he would conclude with a Motion.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he must repeat that he had never discharged a more painful duty than when he now rose to answer a question which had been put on the paper without his knowledge; but having been the prosecuting counsel in the case which had been referred to, it was impossible for him to do anything except to answer the question briefly and with a desire to avoid discussion as much as he could. But as the hon. Member had cast a doubt upon the correctness and accuracy of his statement he would state simply what occurred in his presence on the occasion in question. The day on which the execution was to be carried out had been arranged beforehand, and the Officer of the Court wrote out in large writing for the Chief Justice the sentence to be pronounced, and the Chief Justice proceeded to pronounce it, but was totally unable to do so in the legal form. He omitted in the sentence a material direction, the omission of which would have rendered the sentence bad in point of law. It became, upon this, his duty as Attorney General, prosecuting for the Crown, to call the attention of the Chief Justice to the irregularity and the omission in the sentence; and he was obliged himself to stand near him at the bench, and ask him to repeat over again in legal form that sentence, and he actually dictated to him the sentence in the legal form, which the Chief Justice delivered. These were the simple facts, and his statement of them could be verified by those present.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he must beg to say that the statement to which the hon. Gentlemen referred was substantially correct.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, that the House would believe him when he said that he never in his life had to dischrge a more painful duty—
 MR. STANSFELD  said, in reply, that the Report had not yet been put into shape, but that it would be laid upon the table of the House as soon as completed.
 MR. WHITE  said, that whilst reserving for another occasion the expression of his dissent from much which had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer he would avail himself of this opportunity of declaring his approval of the abolition of the duty on pepper. The more so as, according to the last Report of the Inland Revenue Commissioners, "no article of sale subject to revenue duties is more sophisticated than pepper." The proposed lowering of the mileage duty on stage carriages from 1 d. s. s.
 MR. WHITESIDE  rose to order. There was no question before the House.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he felt it to be his duty to make one observation on this
 357 358
 MR. WYLD  said, that in some districts of the country a large portion of the labouring population made use of vans which were not allowed to travel more than four miles an hour. The right hon. Gentleman would be doing a great service to the lower classes if he would entirely abolish the duties on these vehicles.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member has extended his observations to an unusual length. I thought it was the pleasure of the House, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, to hear him; but the hon. Member will, no doubt, now see fit to put some limit to his observations.
 MR. SPEAKER : Up to this time there is no Motion before the House.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he desired to be informed whether there was any idea that the amount of deposits in the Post Office savings banks and the general savings banks would be a diminishing amount?
 414
 MR. HUBBARD  asked, whether the income tax was to be reproduced precisely as it was in point of incidence and of action?
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that for the last week the authorities at Cork had been in communication with the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland on the subject of cholera, and he himself had been in communication
 360
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he wished to avail himself of the Motion for adjournment to bring a matter of great importance before the House. The authorities of the city of Cork had been in communication with the Irish Government as to placing an old man of war in that harbour as a floating hospital. That recommendation was made some weeks since, and he had during the last three or four days been in communication with the Secretary for Ireland on the subject. He had just received the following telegram, which induced him to make an appeal to Her Majesty's Government:—"Cholera
 359 Inconstant,
 MR. ROEBUCK : Then I will move the adjournment of the House.
 MR. SAMUDA  thought that the proposed operation might be carried to a much greater extent if the duration of the Terminable Annuities was lengthened. It appeared to him (Mr. Samuda) that if the right hon. Gentleman were to substitute for the Permanent Annuities existing at that amount bearing an interest of 3½ per cent Terminable Annuities for 100 years, bearing an interest of 3¾ per cent, that £8,000,000 or £8,500,000 of such Annuities would wipe away at the end of that time £100,000,000 of the National Debt. And so on in proportion.
 SIR MICHAEL HICKS-BEACH  said, they were indebted to the hon. and learned Gentleman for introducing the Bill. It was founded upon the right principle, and was in harmony with the practice in our prisons, which gave to the convict on his release the amount which he earned during his imprisonment.
 MR. ACLAND  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether any Committee of the Privy Council has been appointed to superintend the operation of the Orders in Council on the subject of the Cattle Plague; if no such Committee has been appointed, whether any and which Mem-
 364
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, in reply, that an answer had been received from the French Government in reference to the Fisheries Convention; but, as negotiations were still pending, it would not at present be expedient to state the substance of that reply.
 MR. BEACH  inquired what arrangement would be made with regard to the sporting in the New Forest, power to lease which he observed was taken in the Bill. It had always been customary to treat with some consideration the claims of adjacent proprietors, and he thought that something like a priority on their part ought to be recognized. It might be a great hardship
 426
 MR. COGAN  said, he rose to order. Whilst the hon. Member was confining himself to the particular point of what had been said in reference to his distinguished relative, he had no doubt that the House would listen to him with patience; but if he went into the general conduct of the Chief Justice it would lead to a discussion of the whole question, which would be highly inconvenient.
 MR. DU CANE  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether any answer has been received from the French Government relative to the proposed International Commission on the subject of the English and French Fisheries Convention Act; and, if so, whether he will have any objection to communicate to the House the general tenour of such answer?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  expressed his approval of the measure.
 MR. WATKIN  believed that the railway interest would not regard it as the smallest grievance if the Chancellor of the Exchequer took off the remaining farthing of duty from omnibuses. He regretted that the right hon. Gentleman had said nothing about the enormous charge for collecting the revenue, which was above £5,000,000 sterling, or very nearly 7½ per cent, on the whole amount levied on the people of this country. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had abolished several important Customs duties, and they had a right to expect that the staff employed in the collection of these duties would be proportionately reduced. He had hoped
 413
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he would beg to ask whether the right hon. Gentleman had received any information on the subject of cholera from Londonderry. There was considerable alarm there.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : No information whatever.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the Government had received no information of the cholera on board a ship at Queenstown, except that which had been received from Liverpool.
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, he did not think there was any objection to the introduction of such a clause. He thought it might usefully be inserted in the Annual Continuance Bill of this year. The clause relating to encroachments in the 4  Geo.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that it was the intention of the Government to issue an Order in Council extending the period during which those clauses were to remain in force beyond the 12th of May. With regard to the hon. Gentleman's second question, the decision of the Privy Council must await the Report of the Cattle Plague Commission. As the hon. Gentleman himself was a member of that Commission, he must know when the Report was likely to be sent in to the Government.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he thought it would be impossible to make such a promise. He had already expressed his opinion that if the result of any of those inquiries proved that corrupt practices prevailed in a borough the House ought to be more ready to apply the penalty of disfranchisement than hitherto it had shown itself to be. Till the Report of the Commission was in the hands of the Government it would be impossible for them to decide as to what steps should be taken on it, and the evidence upon which it was based.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that no special Committee of the Privy Council had been appointed to superintend the operation of the Order in Council; but Colonel Harness had been appointed to receive suggestions and to conduct the correspondence, under the directions of the Privy Council; and a meeting of the Privy Council, presided over by the President, was held from time to time, before whom all suggestions received by Colonel Harness or questions addressed to him were brought by him before the Members of the Council for their decision, and answers were sent according to their directions.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that the figures were not his, but those returned at the last Census.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he wished that the Mayor of Cork had telegraphed to Her Majesty's Government as well as to the hon. Gentleman who had brought this subject under the notice of the House. The Government had heard nothing from Cork; but about an hour before they had received a telegram from the Mayor of Liverpool, stating that a ship on its way to that port had touched at Queenstown with cholera on board, and pointing out the dangers which might arise if that ship entered the Mersey. On receipt of the telegram, which was to be followed by a letter, he at once communicated with his right hon. Friend the Vice President of the Privy Council, who immediately saw the President, and directions would be given forthwith for the adoption of such precautions at Liverpool as it might be advisable to take under the circumstances. Had the authorities at Cork communicated with the Government similar steps might have been taken as regarded that port at even an earlier period; but he had no doubt that since it was now known to the Government by means of the communication from Liverpool, and the statement of the hon. Gentleman that a vessel with cholera on board had touched at Queenstown, the Privy Council would give such directions as might be desirable in the case of that port also.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the Returns were made out by the Registrar General, and he stated that the reason why these boroughs were not included were as follows:—That the borough of Weston-super-Mare had no defined boundaries, and that, according to the last information obtained, it had only 2,000 inhabitants; that Shepton Mallet had 4,868 inhabitants; Wellington, 3,689 inhabitants; and Chard, 2,276 inhabitants. Each of these boroughs, therefore, had a population of less than 5,000.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, seeing that Commissions have been issued to investigate the Reports of Committees to the effect that illegal practices prevailed in certain Boroughs at the last General Election, he will promise that if any Commission shall report that illegal practices have prevailed in a Borough extensively, and on many occasions, the Government will bring in a Bill to disfranchise such Borough?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  believed that nothing was so injurious to the reputation of that House as the omission to notice violent and lawless acts committed at the election of its Members. He therefore begged to move that the proceedings and evidence taken before the Nottingham Election Committee should be printed and laid on the table, in order that the House might consider what measures should be adopted before the writ was issued.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  thought that the statement which had been made by the hon. Gentleman (Captain Vivian) was enough of itself to make the House pause ere it issued the Writ.
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  thought that if the hon. and learned Member who spoke last would move for a Committee to inquire into the pressure and operation of the malt tax, it would be of great advantage to the country. They would then see how that tax affected the working man, and also how it affected the agricultural interest. [Mr. AYRTON: Hear, hear!] The hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets understood most questions, but when he spoke the other night of meal  versus 417
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that with respect to the latter question he could remove the misapprehension under which the hon. and learned Gentleman obviously laboured. There was no investment whatever of that £24,000,000. It was what was called a book debt; a mere acknowledgment of debt on the part of the public to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt. That £24,000,000 of book debt had been substituted for £24,000,000 of stock which was formerly held by the Commissioners, and which was cancelled upon the creation of that book debt. Consequently, it was simply a representative in another form of that old book debt, at the same rate of interest; but there were no securities to which it had any reference at all. With regard to the former part of the Question, his hon. and learned Friend had said that this was a subject of necessarily some complication, in which he quite agreed with him, though he should draw quite the opposite inference. The preliminary Resolution, which he had moved, was a Resolution according to the usual form, couched in very general terms, and giving very general powers; and it would be very difficult to engraft upon that Resolution a general discussion on the merits of the subject. He thought that if Gentlemen were disposed to say, "We object entirely to this principle of conversion of permanent debt into terminable annuities," that was a question which might conveniently be raised upon the Resolution; and, therefore, if there were any disposition to take a ground so broad as that, he should be the last person to ask the House of Commons to pass the Resolution without full opportunity of discussion. But if there was a disposition to entertain the principle of the measure at all, or under any circumstances, either as to this £24,000,000, or any part of it, or as to the further measure which was contemplated in the re-investment of dividends, and which, he thought, might require a fuller statement than he was able to give on the preceding evening, then he confessed it appeared to him that it would be greatly for the convenience of the House that any discussion that was to be taken should be taken upon the Bill, and when it was in the hands of Members, because it would describe with much more precision than the Resolution the nature of the operation, and would likewise give to Members the opportunity of raising the question in any
 441
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his intention was to intimate to the House that the Resolution would enable any Gentleman who was disposed to contest the principle to do so. He did not mean to say that by passing the Resolution the House would be bound by the principle. It was always understood that preliminary stages might be passed, if thought convenient, without any degree of assent being given either to the principle or details of the measure.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, that though no doubt a considerable amount of money was spent in Poor Law litigation in Scotland the amount was yet not so much as was spent in England, which was, indeed, about double in proportion. Still, that was no reason why the sum should not be diminished as much as possible. A great portion of the litigation
 473
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to know whether the expense occasioned by the hospital accommodation provided at the various ports to meet the great danger of cholera would be borne by the municipal authorities, or by Government subsidies?
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he rose to call attention to the present state of the public Oyster Fisheries of Ireland, and to a trial at the last Spring Assizes in the county of Sligo, where the validity of the title of an Oyster Licence, granted by the Fishery Commissioners of Ireland, was, for the first time, called into question, and to ask Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, if it is the intention of the Government to introduce a Bill to carry out the "recommendations" of the Royal Commissioners on Sea Coast Fisheries by granting titles which shall be "final and conclusive." He might remark that whereas one of the principal causes of the present poverty of Ireland was the want of industrial employment for its people, its oyster fisheries, which were capable of vast extension, might furnish employment for large numbers of the population, create a
 442 Vict. 443 444 "While we do not consider it expedient to impose any general restrictions upon the fishing of inshore oyster or mussel beds, we strongly recommend that every legislative assistance be given to individuals or corporations who may desire to form private beds for oyster or mussel culture.…We are disposed to think that the most convenient course would be to empower a public Board to grant leases of the sea bottom, after making proper inquiry into the circumstances of each case. Such power should only be exercised after proper notice to the public at the place proposed to be so dealt with, and with due consideration of the interests of the existing fishing population; and an appeal from the decision of the Board should be given to the Privy Council, whose decision should be final and conclusive as to any claim of the public to dredge or fish over the ground so granted." ex post facto 445
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that observing that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had given notice of a Bill on the subject of Church Rates, he wished to know, Whether the hon. Member for Bury St. Edmunds intended to ask the House to go into Committee on his Bill on Wednesday next?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would beg leave to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether, since the Return No. 159, relating to the
 438
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he had to request the indulgence of the House for a few moments while he made a personal explanation. His attention had been called to a
 439
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  entirely agreed with the hon. Member for Clonmel and the hon. Baronet the Member for Waterford that it was the duty of the Government to deal with these cases of arrest under the Habeas Corpus Act and the Lord Lieutenant's warrants with the utmost care, and that they should be dealt with not in a lump, but one by one, according to the individual circumstances of
 462 463
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he rose to call attention to the critical state of the existing relations between Prussia, Austria, and Italy. The subject had been referred to in the French Chamber, and a statement had been made there the confirmation of which in that House would answer the object he had in view. He did not desire to express any want of confidence in Lord Clarendon, and congratulated the country on the change which had taken place in the occupancy of that office. Matters seemed to be on the verge of explosion on the Continent of Europe. The forces called out by Austria and Italy were excessive, and the latter country appeared to have been drawn into the struggle in a most unfortunate way. At the time when a dissension was occurring between Austria and Prussia an Italian General had been sent to Prussia for the purpose of forming an offensive and defensive alliance; between the two countries. The feeling of this country would, he thought, be against a junction of Italy with Prussia for effecting the conquest or slavery of Schleswig-Holstein, and he trusted that no actual alliance had taken place, because nothing could be more detrimental to Italian liberty. There was every preparation for war between Austria and Italy. One of the railway bridges had been destroyed by the military
 474
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  was expressing simply his individual views, and had no authority to speak on behalf of any other Member.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he is willing to postpone the Resolution touching the Reduction of the National Debt from Monday next to a future day, in order to afford time to the House and the Country to bestow a reasonable consideration upon a question of so much importance and difficulty, and a scheme of so complicated a character? He also wished to ask, whether, before any discussion is taken on that Resolution, he is prepared to lay on the table of the House a statement of the exact mode in which the £24,000,000 is at present invested?
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  thought that on a question of so much importance it was desirable not only that the principle, but also the details of the measure should be fully understood, and that could not be effected without discussion.
 SIR HENRY WINSTON BARRON  also pressed on the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for Ireland the necessity of a speedy investigation into the case of each individual prisoner. A number of them had to his knowledge been confined—he would not say improperly, because no doubt Government had acted on information of their folly and imprudence in using language which was not justifiable—but he thought it would be found that a great many had been arrested who would be found incapable of doing mischief to the Government. If the Government found that nothing could be alleged against these prisoners but the use of incautious language, he thought it would not only be doing an act of kindness, but one of justice in letting such persons out of prison.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, the noble Lord the Member for Mayo was entitled to their thanks for bringing under the notice of the House a very important subject. Since notice of the intention to do so had been given he had looked into the subject and found the state of the law to be as described. It would therefore, in his opinion, be right and convenient that after inquiry by the Commissioners their licence should conclude all questions as to the public right of fishing. The suggestion of his hon. and learned Friend the Member for Sligo that a public inquiry should always take place was very valuable; and some form of appeal from the decision of the Commissioners ought to be given in future, probably to the next-going Judge of assize. Having heard these suggestions he certainly should be prepared to recommend Her Majesty's Government to introduce, without delay, a measure for the purpose of giving finality to the order of the Commissioners; and if that were done there was every reason to hope that the unsatisfactory state of the law at present existing would be done away with, and additional inducements given to those persons described by the noble Lord as anxious to develop the resources of Ireland by establishing oyster fisheries. On that point it only remained for him to say that the subject would engage the earliest attention of Her Majesty's
 455 456
 MR. WHITE  thought this a subject of very great importance, and he hoped some satisfactory assurance would be given that the Government had used all proper means, in concert with our ally the Emperor of the French, to avert the calamity of war. At the same time, he could not help saying that the very critical state of Europe was entirely owing to the conduct of the late Government. He stood alone when, in the discussion which took place on the address in reply to the Lords Commissioners, at the opening of the Session of 1864, he said that the noble Lord who then had the conduct of Foreign Affairs had adopted a course which he held to be highly detrimental to the interests of the country in rejecting the proposition made by the Emperor of the French for a European Congress to settle the various questions then under dispute. He then strongly urged that the Schleswig-Holstein question and the occupation of Venetia by Austria had in them the seeds of inevitable war. The events of a few months later showed he was right with regard to Schleswig-Holstein, and he was afraid what he had
 475
 MR. BAGWELL  impressed on the Government the necessity of their quickly and closely investigating the different cases of committal that had taken place in Ireland since the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. He had no hesitation in saying that it was necessary and just at the time to arm the Government with the extraordinary powers of arrest which had been conferred upon them in Ireland, but the Government ought without delay to investigate the case of every individual now in custody upon suspicion, and ascertain what grounds there might be for his detention. The number of persons in custody was very great, and many of them were of that class that one could hardly conceive it possible that they would be mixed in treasonable practices. They appeared to be of the humblest class, and persons who were almost incapable of forming an opinion upon political subjects. With the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act it was but natural to suppose that a great number of officials, with a view to ultimate notoriety with the Government and thereby to assist themselves, would think it to be their duty to make a number of contemptible arrests. He believed there was every reason to believe that that had been done to a considerable extent, and therefore it was that he pressed on the Government that they could not too closely and too minutely examine into all these cases in order to clear their actions from all suspicion of unnecessary harshness. The resident magistrate to whom reference had been made he had often met in the course of duty, and entertained of him the highest opinion. If he had forgotten himself so far as to give orders which could not be defended, it must have been from over anxiety to do his duty, at a time, moreover, when matters were in a very unsettled state in Ireland. To show that complaints of treatment in gaols were not universal, he could state that an Irish American gentleman had been confined in
 457
 MR. BLAKE , in rising to
 "Call attention to the Returns presented relative to the treatment of prisoners confined in the gaol of Waterford under the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, and the correspondence on the subject," 446 "The Attorney General for Ireland said he entirely agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Clonmel that these prisoners ought not to be subjected to any restrictions save those which were required for their safe custody; and he believed that the rule had been fully adopted in the gaol of Waterford. As soon as he saw the notice which the hon. Member had put upon the paper, he caused inquiries to be instituted upon the subject, and these inquiries led him to believe that the hon. Gentlemen had been entirely misinformed upon the case. He had been furnished with a report upon which it appeared that these prisoners were not subject to any severe restrictions, and in reply to the question of the hon. Gentleman whether the Government had given specific directions with respect to their treatment, he had to observe that the Government had
 447 "It was obviously right and desirable that no unnecessary hardship should be inflicted on those prisoners, and that the Government held firmly by the principle that unconvicted prisoners who were arrested under the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, were to be treated in the same manner as all other untried prisoners." "The prisoners under the Habeas Corpus Act complained of not being allowed to attend chapel on Sunday; not being allowed to see legal advisers, and insufficient time for exercise." 448 "1st. They alleged that they had not sufficient exercise. "2nd. They complained that they were not allowed to attend public worship. "3rd. They complained of not being allowed to see or communicate with their friends or legal advisers. "4th. We found sentinels in charge of the prisoners, and were told that they were not allowed even to go to the water closet except under guard of a turnkey and soldier, nor were they allowed to the lavatories. We were informed that the gas was kept lighting in their cells all night, and that they were inspected each change of sentries."
 MR. MAGUIRE  seconded the Motion.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would add his voice to the appeal made to the Government by his hon. Friend the Member for Clonmel (Mr. Bagwell), and he believed there were many persons now in gaol under the warrant of the Lord Lieutenant whom it would be a great mercy to release, and thus restore to their families. As to the treatment of prisoners in gaols, he would not refer to that part of the subject more than to say that his hon. Friend the Member for Waterfbrd (Mr. Blake) had triumphantly vindicated the accuracy of his statements in reference to the mode of treatment adopted at Waterford, previous to the attention of the House and the Government having been brought to the matter on the 16th of March. The result of that Notice was most beneficial, as the Government at once interfered; for public opinion having been brought to bear upon the facts of the case, the consequence was an almost instantaneous change. He would, therefore, say that no cause of complaint —of reasonable complaint—existed at pre-
 458 459 The Irish People, ex parte 460 "I have watched with attention, and noted with accuracy, the results of the arrests under warrant of the Lord Lieutenant, and they have produced very disastrous consequences. A widespread feeling of insecurity obtained at once among the young men of this parish. Their liberty was clearly at the mercy of every constable, or even of a malicious neighbour who might make a private statement to a magistrate or a sub-inspector of police. It cannot be wondered at, then, that a determination to fly in haste from the land where no young peasant felt safe should spring up among this class. This determination to fly has been put into execution in a wholesale manner. Within the last two months over 250 persons, principally young men, have left this town and neighbourhood for America, most of them against the wish, many of them without the knowledge, of their parents. I am perfectly certain that a very small proportion of those who fled away was tainted with Fenianism. The result of this withdrawal  en masse 461
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, that the municipal authorities of Cork had no control over Queenstown harbour.
 MR. MAGUIRE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government have taken, or ordered to be taken, any steps to establish a really practical and effective system of quarantine in Cork Harbour as a precaution against the introduction of Cholera in Emigrant or other vessels entering that port; whether it is intended to send to Cork Harbour an old Man of War or Hulk to be used, in case of necessity, as a floating Hospital, for the reception of patients, emigrants, or others afflicted with that disease; and whether it is not the opinion of the Government that whatever is to be done as a means of precaution should be done immediately, and without a day's delay?
 MR. HARDCASTLE : No; it is not my intention to go into Committee on that day.
 MR. SERJEANT ARMSTRONG  said, he wished to say a few words with reference to the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Mayo. He thought that the law with regard to oyster licences in Ireland was in a very unsatisfactory condition. It was perfectly plain to any one who would take the trouble to read the Act of Parliament, that if the Commissioners transgressed the limits assigned by the statute, the licence was  pro tanto, 454
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that if there were a wreck lying in the anchorage of Torbay, it would no doubt be injurious to it. In many places on the coast there were harbour authorities who had powers under local Acts to remove wrecks sunk in the harbour or their approaches at the expense of the owners of the ships sunk.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  was not aware that in such a case any authority had power to compel the owners of ships to remove wrecks. For some time the Government had entertained the opinion, shared by the Trinity Corporation, that some legislation might be necessary on this subject in order to give powers to compel shipowners to remove the wrecks of their ships from anchorage grounds, and if that were not possible, to insure their removal at the public expense. The subject had been under consideration, and it might well be dealt with in any future Amendment of the Merchant Shipping Act. With regard to the general proposition of the hon. Baronet, he scarcely knew how to reply to it. It was deplorable that there should have been such loss of lives and of shipping at Torbay during the tremendous gale of last winter, but it was obvious that the same loss might have occurred under any other headland on the same coast. When vessels availed themselves of a good anchorage to await a change of wind or favourable weather, if a sudden change of wind took place, and it blew violently towards land, the probability was that many sailing vessels would be driven ashore. That might happen under any headland where there was good anchorage; but would that justify in each case the erection of a breakwater at the public expense? Perhaps the case of Torbay was not that of an ordinary headland; but the Commissioners who were appointed to inquire into the best places for harbours of refuge and breakwaters, in case Parliament should decide upon making grants for their erection, did not recommend that anything should be done at Torbay; and if it were ever proposed to make grants, Parliament would probably be guided by the recommendations of the Commissioners, He could not hold out any hope that Government would propose to Parliament
 469 470
 MR. BAXTER  said, he rose to call attention to the large sum out of the assessment for the relief of the poor in Scotland spent annually in litigation; and to ask whether the Government will undertake to provide a remedy for so crying an evil? He believed that a sum of between £9,000 and £10,000 was annually spent in this litigation—an amount equivalent to the maintenance of 1,700 paupers, and he suggested that the whole jurisdiction should be given to the board of supervisors, or that questions in dispute should be summarily settled by the Sheriffs Courts.
 MR. WATKIN , who had a notice on the paper relating to the termination of the Reciprocity Treaty, and the conduct pursued by the Government in relation thereto, said, he had waited a few moments to see if the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs was disposed to reply to the questions which had been already put, but perhaps he would answer both together. Notwithstanding the attempt which had just been made to count out the House, he must ask their attention to a most important subject. He had two years ago ventured to bring the subject under the notice of the Government, in the hope that it would attract a portion of the attention which was then directed to the affairs of Poland and Denmark. First of all, he wished to know who was responsible for the consideration of questions involving so largely the international relations between the British North American Provinces and the United States, and our relations with the latter through the former. Was it the Foreign Office, the Colonial Office, or the Board of Trade? They had recently been told in the public papers that an uneasy feeling existed about the fisheries on the North American coast; that a fleet was being prepared for the protection of the United
 476 Hansard "It appeared to Her Majesty's Government that the return of Lord Elgin to Canada afforded an opportunity, which ought not to be neglected, of endeavouring to settle those numerous questions which, for years past, have been so embarrassing to the two Governments. One of those questions, especially that relating to the fisheries, has given rise to annually increasing causes of contention, and has sometimes threatened collisions, which I believe have only been averted for the last two years by the firmness and moderation of Sir George Seymour and of the British and American naval commanders, and by that spirit of friendship and forbearance which has always characterized the officers of both navies. But, my Lords, your Lordships are also aware that there are other questions which have given rise to embarrassing discussions between the Governments of the two countries—questions which involve the commercial relations of our North American possessions with the United States, and that those questions, which involve very diver-
 477 Hansard,
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Government to bring forward any measure for the purpose of extending and settling the boundaries of the several Boroughs in England and Wales named in the second sections of the Schedules A and B of the Municipal Corporation Reform Act, in accordance with the Report of the Municipal Corporation Boundaries Commissioners, ordered by the House to be printed in the year 1837, or to take any other step with reference to extending and settling the boundaries of such Boroughs? At the time of the Municipal Reform Act there were 178 corporations, of which ninety-six had their boundaries made to correspond with their Parliamentary limits. With regard to the remaining eighty-two corporations a Royal Commission was appointed to examine and fix their boundaries. In the discussions which occurred in the Committee on the Bill, Sir Robert Peel thought it was too great a power to give to the Commissioners to settle such an important matter, and contended that the final settlement of the boundaries should be left to Parliament itself. Lord Russell, however, carried the question against Sir Robert Peel; but the House of Lords reversed this decision, and the noble Lord in considering the Amendments made in the House of Lords ultimately acquiesced in the proposal that the matter should be left to be dealt with by Parliament; remarking that the delay would only be for one year. In the meantime the Commissioners presented a Report; and a more elaborate or perfect Report he had seldom read. It gave the areas of the boroughs, showing the defects that existed, and that it would be impossible from their excessive extent in many cases to take the Parliamentary boundaries for municipal purposes. The Report was accompanied by plans and details, showing what would be the proper and most advantageous area for each borough; but from that time no steps whatever had been taken in the matter. In the case of the borough which he represented (Chippenham) one of the churches of the town,
 471
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, the question raised by the hon. Member was certainly one well deserving the attention of the House. The Report of the Commission on Municipal Boundaries was made nearly thirty years ago, and the boroughs named in the second sections of the Schedules A and B were for the most part the smallest in the kingdom. He had been informed by Lord Eversley, who was the Chairman of the Commission, that the Report was not acted upon in consequence of the great local opposition which was raised to the adoption of its recommendation. It was impossible at the present time to adopt that Report as the basis of the new boundaries, because circumstances had since changed and the population of the suburbs of these boroughs had much increased. The objection that the population had outgrown the boundaries of many of these boroughs applied quite as much, if not more, to those boroughs whose limits were fixed by the Act as to the others. He quite agreed that some means ought to be provided for revising from time to time the limits of the municipal boroughs. The population had greatly increased in many of the boroughs, and the limits now fixed by law were not those which would be laid down by any tribunal to which such a duty would now be intrusted. If boroughs were not incorporated, they might petition for a charter of incorporation. The
 472
 SIR GEORGE GREY , in reply, said, that the Paper referred to by the noble Lord did not give the necessary information. The Return was made on a Motion for the actual number of cattle slaughtered, but did not state the circumstances under which they were slaughtered, and whether the owners received any and what compensation, or how long the cattle had been in the possession of their owners. There were cases in which he was aware infected cattle were bought cheap—a safe speculation; for if they died there was no great loss, and if not their owners made a good bargain. He was not satisfied that in such cases any compensation should be awarded. Inquiries had been addressed by the Privy Council to the local authorities in England and Scotland to ascertain the circumstances under which the slaughter of cattle had taken place and their estimated value. He had inquired of the Privy Council what had been the result of that inquiry, and he was told that Returns had been received from 133 local authorities, none of whom had any cases of slaughter to report in which compensation was claimed, in twelve cases Returns had been received of the number slaughtered and the estimated value, and in 122 cases no answers had been returned. He was not, therefore, in a condition to give a reply to the noble Lord's Question.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he quite agreed that what was done as a means of precaution against cholera should be done immediately, and the Government had acted in that spirit; for so long ago as July, 1865, when cholera was reported to be at Alexandria, they thought it right to address a circular to the municipal authorities of all the ports in Great Britain, calling their attention to the necessity of taking precautions against its introduction, and directing then, in anticipation of its appearance, that proper hospital accommodation should he provided for the reception of patients. He did not know what steps had been taken by the municipal authorities in consequence of those warnings, except that at Liverpool there is a hospital specially prepared for the reception of cholera patients. It was very doubtful whe-
 437
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was not at all aware of that fact but the municipal authorities should themselves make their own application to the Admiralty stating all the facts of the case.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he believed that under the present law that expense fell on the local funds administered by the municipal authorities.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, that the wreck in question was without the limits of the harbour.
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose to call the attention of the Government to the recent shipwrecks and loss of property in Torbay, and to the Petition of the Inhabitants of Brixham, Torquay, Paignton, Newton, and Teignmouth, praying for the erection of a Harbour of Refuge. Torbay was situated about midway between Portland and Plymouth, and was surrounded on two sides by a high hill. It was almost entirely protected from every wind but one—namely, the east or south-east. Frequently there were sheltered there sixty or seventy vessels at a time, and the place, therefore, was one of considerable importance. It had a large fishing trade, and it was computed that within the year between 2,000 and 3,000 vessels, varying from 50 to 1,500
 464 The Times, "We find that there were certainly 62 sail in the bay when the gale came on, and of these there were riding in the bay after the storm, 10: in the harbour, 10; wrecked on the coast or foundered in the bay, 42; there were besides 8 trawl sloops sunk and wrecked; 73 seamen are supposed to have lost their lives, and 4 fishermen of Brixham. The estimated loss in ships and cargoes is from £150,000 to £200,000." 465 "That the Committee on Harbours of Refuge did not recommend the construction of a breakwater in Torbay was based principally on the opinion of the Hydrographer Admiral Washington, having more immediately in view the construction of large harbours of defence and aggression than national harbours of refuge; but that to my mind has been fully proved to have been an error in judgment, by the sad result of the gale of the 10th of January. Except Plymouth Sound no harbour of refuge for the passing trade does, in fact, practically exist to the westward of Portland, and there is a report current that Plymouth Sound is silting up, and it is even rumoured the  Royal Albert 466 "Torbay contains often throughout the year large fleets of wind-bound vessels, many of these having on board hundreds of emigrants and most valuable cargoes. Some of the finest ships in the navy have anchored in the bay, and the Channel Fleet has lain there for days together. Brixham is one of the most important fishing stations on the coast, and now that the railway is being completed to the harbour will no doubt have considerable trade. The fleet of trawlers alone is worth £100,000. The schooners and other traders in the Brixham Club are worth £250,000. The vessels anchoring in the bay may be computed at 900,000 tons; worth, without counting vessels of war or cargoes, upwards of £7,000,000." 467 468
 MR. BARING : Sir, the Returns have been called for from the returning officers and town clerks of the boroughs in which there are dockyards by the Home Department. The answers have not as yet been all received; when received the information will be laid upon the table.
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, When he will be prepared to make his statement respecting the Indian army?
 COLONEL GREVILLE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, When the Report of the Commission on the Irish Constabulary will be laid upon the table of the House; and, whether the Government have decided upon making any change in the position of the Force, with a view to their increased efficiency?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the intention of the Government is to move that the House shall rise on Friday week and adjourn till the Thursday following.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I do not think that is ever made the subject of a previous understanding. Matters take their natural course on that day.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could only repeat the statement he made on a former occasion. He was quite in the hands of the House; but he thought the most convenient course would be for the House to get the Resolution passed without prejudice and without being committed in any way to the plan, and then to have the Bill in the hands of Members before the discussion took place upon it. If this was agreeable to the House he would take the Resolution that night, report it to-morrow, and then fix some convenient time for the second reading.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that that Motion rather referred to the Committee of Ways and Means, and hoped if so that it would not be brought on, as it would be very inconvenient in regard to the course of trade to delay the passing of those Resolutions which related to Customs.
 GENERAL PEEL : I am not in the habit of making use of indirect means. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Bouverie) tells us that there is one party in this House who wish to defeat this measure by indirect means, and he has coupled my name with them. Now, I can assure the right hon. Gentleman that my opposition to it will be direct and open. I am anxious to see this question settled; for I have no wish to see the Reform Bill buried and dug up again whenever it pleases the right hon. Gentlemen opposite to do so. I am anxious, as I said before, to see the right of voting conferred on many people who do not now possess it; but I shall take the opportunity of opposing this Bill whenever an opportunity presents itself.
 MR. ROBERTSON  rose to express his great astonishment at the accusation the hon. and learned Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) had brought against the Scotch Members of Parliament, and said he would repel the accusation in the strongest language that would be Parliamentary. He gave the House his word, as a Scotch Member, that until he heard the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer he had not the remotest idea how Scotland would be dealt with. He might even go further. They had heard extraordinary statements, and a very extraordinary one that night, about bribery at elections. As regarded Scotland, both the constituents and those whom they sent to Parliament were incapable of being bribed. He regretted that the hon. and learned Member for Belfast had unadvisedly made the accusation he had, and he repelled it with scorn.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  rose to move for leave to introduce a Bill to amend the Representation of the People of Scotland. The right hon. Gentleman, who was indistinctly heard in the confusion arising from Members leaving the House, said, that the Bill proposed to deal with three matters—namely, the franchise in Scotland, the additional seats that were to be given to constituencies in Scotland, and the registration of voters in Scotland. In moving for leave to bring in a Bill to effect these objects, he might be allowed for a moment to refer to the state of the representation of Scotland before and since the passing of the Reform Act of 1832. Prior to that date Scotland had not even the shadow of representation. A very limited constituency elected the county Members, and the Members for the boroughs were chosen by corporations who elected themselves. Undoubtedly this state of things did not savour much of democracy, and he was sorry to say that there was not then an entire absence of that corruption from which Scotland was now supposed to be free. With the passing of the Reform Act Scotland for the first time obtained a popular franchise, and the constituencies called into existence by that Act were through it introduced to duties which were entirely new to them, and to which they were utterly unaccustomed. It was not claiming much for the constituencies to say that the privilege then bestowed on them for the first time they had not abused. It could not be said, in language that had been used that night, that there were venality and corruption in the lower grades of the constituency, and neither could it be said that in the higher grades there had been found the disposition to hold out temptations to corruption. There had been but one petition presented against a Return for Scotland on the ground of bribery since the passing of the Reform Act. He did not mention this to extol the superior morality of Scotland; he mentioned it for the double purpose of showing, first, that there was no necessary connection between a popular constituency
 518 519 520 521
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he had no desire to prolong the discussion; but he desired to call to the Lord Advocate's attention the fact that Aberdeen, the northern capital of Scotland, the seat of a University, containing 75,000 inhabitants, of whom 3,996 were electors, Was omitted from the list of burghs which were to receive additional representation. Some of the county constituencies required grouping: thus, the county of Bute, with a population of 16,831, had 510 electors while that of Caithnessshire, with a population of 33,636, had only 508 electors; and Sutherlandshire, with a population of 24,599, had 181 electors. This was ample proof of the necessity for grouping the county as well as the borough constituencies.
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he had heard no good reason assigned for the proposal to disfranchise the borough which he represented by adding it to Enntskillen. He could only suppose that the boroughs in the group were to be disfranchised because they returned Conservative Members. It was a fact that nearly the whole grouped boroughs were represented by Conservatives. They proposed to disfranchise the town which he represented, though the county of Sutherland, which had about the same number of electors, was to be let alone. The county of Tyrone, of which Dungannon was the chief town, had a population of 302,000. He had understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say that in counties in England there ought to be a representative to every 150,000 inhabitants. Ireland, therefore, had not had justice done to her, though Scotland had been fairly treated. He should give his strenuous opposition to these Bills, and should enrol himself under the banner of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel).
 THE O'CONOR DON  was pleased to find that the Government did not intend I to lower the county franchise in Ireland. He must add that while he was not at that moment prepared to enter fully into the merits of the Bill, some of its provisions in reference to the re-distribution of seats seemed to him rather strange. He thought, for instance, that Athlone and Portarlington, even when united, would form but an extremely small constituency, and that it would be well if some of the neighbouring towns were grouped with them in order to bring them up to the proper electoral strength. As to Dungannon, with its 185 electors and its population of 3,800, he saw no good reason why it should not be added to the town of Enniskillen; and he would remind the hon. and gallant Gentleman who had just sat down (Major Stuart Knox) that its case was entirely different from that of Sutherlandshire, which was a county, and which contained 25,000 inhabitants.
 LORD CLAUD HAMILTON  contended that the Government had acted with respect to Dungannon on a different principle from that they had laid down for England. In England the boroughs were to be grouped geographically; but they paid no regard to this principle in Ireland, for they proposed to take from the county Tyrone the representative it now had. The county of Tyrone had a population of 300,000, and the barony of Dungannon had upwards of 80,000 inhabitants. The Government having proceeded with respect to Ireland on a totally different principle from that which they had adopted for England, he was entitled to protest against a measure so exceptional and capricious in character. Scotland had been highly favoured, but he might be allowed to remind the right hon. Gentleman that a vast number of the people of Ulster were of Scotch origin. If they did not obtain additional Members they ought not to be deprived of those they had.
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  expressed his surprise that the thriving province of Ulster—which at present returned twenty-nine Members, twenty-seven of whom sat on the Opposition side of the House—had not its claims to increased representation more fairly dealt with in the Bill.
 MR. CORRY  thought it unjust that Tyrone, which in population, wealth, and size, was entitled to have three Members, should lose half a Member owing to the union of Portadown and Enniskillen. Those boroughs were not in the same county. It was not fair that Ulster, which was prospering in wealth, and
 540
 MR. ESMONDE  said, he regarded the present representation of the city of Dublin as a perfect farce, because the owners and occupiers of property were overridden by the freemen, the "ruck" of whom were about the most disreputable of any class of voters. It was really a serious question whether, if the freemen were to remain in their present position, it would not be very improper to give another Member, as now proposed, to the city of Dublin. He would also suggest whether it might not be expedient to require some qualification even for freemen. A £4 franchise would, he believed, exclude one-half of the present freemen. These men came out in a body just towards the close of an election like a swarm of flies in summer, and carried all before them, and great corruption and abuse existed among them. It had been said that all the rising
 542
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the noble Lord would have no difficulty in finding opportunities of raising the Question. When the Report was brought up there would be no difficulty in doing so.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, he
 558
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the Question of the noble Lord was a Question for the House, and not for the Committee. The House had referred the consideration of the National Debt Acts to the Committee, and the Committee could not, therefore, inquire into the question raised by the noble Lord.
 ABMIRAL DUNCOMBE  said, he wished to know if the Government intend to propose the adjournment of the House for the Derby Day?
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, When he intends to propose the adjournment of the House for the Whitsuntide recess?
 MR. BOUVERIE : The time for fixing the second reading of a Bill is after the Bill introduced has been read a first time. But though in appearance this may be a question of procedure, I think it is a very much deeper one in reality. It is a question of whether we shall go on with these measures or not. Sir, there are three parties, as far as I can make out, in this House. There is one party which, acting indirectly, is opposed to proceeding at all, either with the Franchise Bill or this Redistribution Bill—headed on this side of the House, perhaps, by my right hon. Friend who sits beside me (Mr. Lowe), and on the other side by the right hon. and gallant Gentleman the Member for Huntingdon (General Peel). I think there is also a party in this House composed of those who are inclined to proceed with the Franchise Bill alone. Now, these parties, although influential in point of numbers, and influential in weight by the Members of which they are composed, do not, as I think, represent the feelings and opinions of this House, and do not, as I am con-
 509 crux 510 511 512
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that he thought the differences of opinion existing on the subject would be more satisfactorily
 484
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  asked, whether he was to understand that he should refer the point to the Speaker before the Report was presented? He had not had an opportunity of doing so before the Speaker left the Chair.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he rose not to continue the discussion, but rather to ask whether it was in order to go into it at all. On the Paper which hon. Members received on Saturday morning the second Order of the day was the Merchant Shipping Act, 1854, and that was the state of the Orders when the House rose on Friday evening. But when he came down to the House to-day he found that the Orders had been altered; this National Debt question had been intercalated between the first and second Orders as they had appeared on the Paper on Saturday morning. Now, it was not right that hon. Members should be placed in that position. This was a subject of the greatest importance. If the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard), for instance, wished to raise a discussion on the National Debt Bill, and if, relying on the Paper which he received on Saturday morning, he had gone to his country seat (believing, from the position in which the question had stood on the Orders this morning, that it could not possibly come on for discussion to-night), he would have lost the opportunity which he desired, and the House would have lost his knowledge and experience. He therefore wished to ask, as a matter of order, whether they could go into the question of the National Debt Acts now?
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  (Mr. Speaker being in the Chair) said, he
 563
 MR. AYRTON  said, if his hon. Friend the Member for the City (Mr. Alderman Lawrence) knew how difficult it was to obtain justice in that House when no powerful interest demanded it, he would be satisfied with the instalment of justice now obtained. For six years he had struggled to obtain a recognition of the exorbitant overcharge of taxation upon locomotion. He objected to the theory of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that the metropolis owed something to the Government for money laid out upon it, which ought to be repaid by some specific tax. He, for one, was not aware that any such claim existed. He believed that when the House came to balance accounts, not only would it be found that there was a great overcharge in the matter of cabs, but also a still greater overcharge in other branches of revenue. In London several families living in one house had to contribute to the house tax, while in the country families living in separate houses had no such tax to pay. There were many matters in respect of which the metropolis laboured under serious disadvantages. He attributed this to the fact that it had so small an amount of representation in that House. It could not make itself felt. He hoped, however, there was a chance of improvement in that respect. It was remarkable that if a number of small boroughs—which in the aggregate had not, perhaps, a population equal to half that of one of the metropolitan boroughs—felt themselves aggrieved by any particular state of circumstances, they were able to bring such a pressure on the Chancellor of the Exchequer as he was unable to withstand, while the metropolis could not get its just complaints attended to. He never could understand why the public carriages in
 551
 MR. LAYARD  replied that no proposal had been made for a Congress, but the question had been under discussion.
 MR. LAYARD : I regret, Sir, to say I am not able to give my hon. Friend any satisfactory information or any satisfactory assurance with respect to the present untoward state of affairs on the Continent. The opinion of Her Majesty's Government on the causes and events Which have led to that state of things is well known. It is equally well known to Austria, Prussia, and Italy, that Her Majesty's Government would, with the greatest pleasure, make use of their good offices, and do their utmost, for the purpose of preserving peace, if those good offices were applied for, and if there was any prospect of such good offices leading to any satisfactory result. The wish of Her Majesty's Government has been expressed to the French Government to act with them with a view to that object. It is quite evident that it would be unadvisable on the part of Her Majesty's Government to enter alone into any offer of good offices to any of those Powers which I now fear are on the verge of going to war. In the present critical state of affairs it would be unadvisable and improper to enter into any details on the subject.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise, Sir, to ask for leave to bring in a Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats. And though my duly will not, I hope, require me to detain the House for any great length of time, yet I must commence by pointing out that I shall have to advert to three several subjects—first, to the re-distribution of seats, properly so called; secondly, to certain questions as to the provisions which are most fitting and convenient to be made with regard to the boundaries of Parliamentary boroughs; and thirdly, I must deal with that question of the procedure upon these Bills upon which so much has been said, and with regard to which so much interest has been excited. 487 488 489 490 491 492 493 494 495 496 497 498 499 500 501 502 503 504 pari passu, 505 Laughter and cries of" Laughter. 506 507 aliunde
 MR. DISRAELI : I mean to touch only on one of the three subjects that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has brought under our consideration; and when the right hon. Gentleman rose, I did not contemplate that it would be necessary for me to trouble the House upon any of those points. I shall, however, confine myself entirely to the matter of procedure. I must say I have listened to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer upon that topic with a feeling akin to astonishment. It is generally considered the duty of a private Member of the House, when he brings forward a Bill or proposes a measure for our consideration, that he should at least indicate the mode in which he intends to invite the opinion of the House, and the time at which he thinks it may be convenient to ask for that opinion. But,
 508
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought that it would be better if the hon. Gentleman were to bring the subject before the House on the second reading.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he considered that unless they heard what the intentions of the hon. Member for Buckingham were, it would be inconvenient to follow the course indicated by the right hon. Gentleman.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) had a Resolution on the Paper on the same subject, which was fixed for that night.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the speech of the hon. Member who had just sat down showed clearly that the whole subject of the taxes on locomotion required to be reviewed. Much greater changes ought to be proposed than those he had suggested, and the Resolution before the House was brought forward not as in any degree a settlement, but as a remedy for one salient point of grievance and inconvenience—namely, the state of the omnibus traffic which pressed unjustly upon the middle and working classes residing in the environs of the metropolis, &c, and affected the supply of carriages to the railway stations. He had, however, already explained that he had not the means of dealing with the whole subject on the present occasion. Upon the general question he would not hesitate to express the opinion that so far as popular locomotion was concerned, it could not be too free. The question was, however, one embracing many details. The hon. Member (Mr. Alderman Lawrence) said, with great truth, that even if the State ought to receive some consideration in return for the expenditure upon the metropolis it was by no means clear why it should be paid by a charge on cabs. He agreed with the hon. Member that this tax would deserve re-consideration; but his hon. Friend would no doubt agree with him that in regard to this matter of metropolitan expenditure it would not be wise to legislate until the House had got some better devised substitute in the place of this tax. Such a substitute might be found, but they had not found it now. The more convenient time to enter upon this question would be when the whole subject was opened out, as he trusted it would be, by the Report of the Railway Commissioners. Meanwhile, he trusted that the House would not object to adopt a partial remedy for a grievance specific in its character, and which pressed upon the public more heavily than any other part of the duties on locomotion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was obvious that the adoption of Resolutions merely of preliminary character could not bind hon. Members to any details, and that the most convenient time to discuss the provisions of the Bill founded upon them was when that Bill was in their hands. The Resolutions were necessarily couched in vague and general terms, because their scope must he sufficient to cover everything in the Bill. Ample time should be afforded for the discussion of the important subjects which they embraced, and in fixing the time for the second reading he hoped to consult the convenience of hon. Members. In answer to the question of the hon. and learned Member for Suffolk (Sir Fitz Roy Kelly) as to the period at which payments of the annuity would be made, those periods would be fixed to meet the convenience both of the Commissioners
 546
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  meant no disrespect to hon. Members by declining to discuss questions which had been raised, and which went deep into our fiscal and social systems, because they could not be adequately discussed on a Resolution for the renewal of a tax. They were fair and proper subjects to be discussed thoroughly, and when they were raised as separate questions the House had shown no disinclination to attend to them; but, on the voting of a portion of the Supplies of the year, the House could not enter upon the deeper and larger question of the structure of the taxes.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , on rising to move a Resolution said, that as it would be very difficult to discuss the question satisfactorily without details, and as the House could have the details only when the Bill was before it, he would simply move the Resolution which stood on the paper, in conformity with the understanding come to in the House that the discussion should be taken at a convenient time, such as on the question of the second reading. He begged, therefore, to move—
 "That it is expedient to grant powers for cancelling the charge on the Consolidated Fund for Savings Banks of £24,000,000, and also for cancelling, from time to time. Capital Stocks of Annuities held for Savings Banks by the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt,
 556
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the intention of the Government certainly was, that this measure should be brought forward this evening, and that intention was made the subject of conversation more than once during the last week. He thought it was fully understood that it was the intention of the Government, so far as depended upon them, with the approval of the House, to move the Resolution this evening. With respect to the question put to him by the noble Lord (Viscount Cranbourne), his knowledge was very limited. He had seen the Order in the middle of the list, but when he came down to the House he found it promoted to the second place. He apprehended whatever mistake was made must have been made in the Notice paper of Saturday, and that the Order was only restored to its original place. With respect to the questions which had been asked by his hon. Friend behind him (Sir Edward Buller), there were some of them that could hardly be discussed until the Bill was in the hands of Members; but with regard to others he was able to give an answer. With regard to the first question, why, when £24,000,000 was to be converted, the interest was only £720,000, the explanation was to be found in the history of the transaction by which the book debt was created. That book debt of £24,000,000 represented what was previously £24,000,000 of stock, and when by the vote of the House that stock
 559
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I cannot accept, on the part of the Government, any portion of the rebuke which the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire administered to me; nor does it appear to me that we, who were so largely charged a fortnight ago with domineering over the House and with dictating to it, and who then thought we were quite innocent of the charge, are a bit more chargeable with the abdication of duty now imputed to us. Our course has been this. We originally stated to the House our ideas of the form of procedure best calculated to attain the object we had
 515 516
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was afraid that, having regard to other subjects still more important, he could only repeat his promise of giving ample notice. He should be glad if the second reading could be fixed for Thursday week, but until he knew what course was likely to be pursued in regard to the Bill he had introduced that evening he could make no definite arrangement.
 MR. MONK  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, When the Return of Dockyard Workmen who claimed to vote at the last General Election, and who will be disqualified by Clause 16 of the Representation of the People Bill, will be laid before the House?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Sir, I have to make some explanation, which need not be very long, to the House concerning the Bill which I have now to introduce on the part of Her Majesty's Government, for the amendment of the representation of the people in Ireland. The House will not be surprised when I say that, in the opinion of Her Majesty's Government, the condition of the representation of the people in Ireland is such as not to call for any very large or very extensive change. The fact is, as is well known to hon. Members, that in the year 1850 a most important and extensive Bill for the amendment and extension of the franchise, totally unconnected with any measure for the re-distribution of seats, was introduced by Lord Russell and by my then predecessor, Sir William Somerville. That Bill effected a very great alteration in the Irish franchise; and, as is well known, it placed the county franchise upon the footing of a £12 rating occupation, and the borough franchise upon the footing of an £8 rating occupation, coupled with a most important provision which formed what I may call a self-acting system of registration. In very few words I will tell the House the circumstances and the effect of that measure. I will first take the counties into consideration. Just before the Reform Act of 1832 was passed, and in consequence of the abolition of the 40 s 530 531 532 facile princeps, 533 534
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was not aware that the boundary question arose in Ireland to any considerable extent. In all those cases in which it was proposed that additions should be made to boroughs—with the single exception of Kilrush—the boundaries were already settled for municipal purposes.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : I thought I stated that it was proposed that the lodger franchise should be the same as that to be provided for England,
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he must apologize for an accidental omission from his statement. There was a clause in the Bill which would make the Parliamentary boroughs in Ireland coterminous with municipal boroughs; and that provision would meet the case of Belfast, to which the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) had alluded.
 MR. ALDERMAN SALOMONS  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, If he can give the House any information on the present untoward aspect of Continental affairs, and if Her Majesty's Government has either by itself or in accord with France made any friendly offers to the Governments of Italy and Austria, with a view of soothing existing differences and averting from Europe the threatened calamities of war?
 MR. REARDEN  said, he should certainly oppose the grouping together of Athlone and Portarlington, towns which were at least twenty miles apart; and he maintained that no extension of the franchise in Ireland would be satisfactory unless it were accompanied by the protection of the ballot.
 MR. M'LAREN  said, he would not have risen but for the impression sought to be created by hon. Gentlemen opposite, that Scotland was being unduly favoured. This he entirely denied, for whether they took population alone, or taxation alone, or the two combined, Scotland was clearly entitled to twenty more Members. Such was proved to be the case by the Return presented in 1859; and he had no doubt that when the continuation of that Return, for which he moved three weeks ago, was produced, the claim of Scotland would be found even larger. Looking, however, at the difficulties with which the Government were beset in doing Scotland full justice, he was grateful to them for the concessions they had made; but he maintained that the people of Scotland were justly entitled to much more. In some other respects he thought Scotland was rather unfairly dealt with. He could not understand, for example, why the 40s. freehold franchise should not be extended to it;—for though the Lord Advocate said there were legal difficulties in the way, he had never heard anybody but a lawyer say so, and he did not think they would get a hundred men in Scotland to entertain that opinion. He quite approved of means being taken to check the creation of fictitious votes, which had been extensively resorted to, and by which men who did not possess an inch of soil had obtained electoral influence. As
 526 527
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, he had listened to the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on this subject, and had read the Reports in the papers, and he confessed, after all, that he did not understand the plan of the Government, nor had he met any one who did. But, as far as he did understand it, it was this:—There were to be two operations, A and B. The first was to wipe out £24,000,000 of cash, not stock. He wished to know how these £24,000,000 of cash were represented by an interest of £720,000, that being nearly 3 per cent. There was another point which he would wish to have cleared up. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that there were £3,000,000 due to the trustees of the savings banks over and above the £24,000,000."Was he right in stating that? If he understood the scheme rightly, it was that £1,725,000 was to be annually paid for the purpose of extinguishing the £24,000,000, and at the end of eighteen and a half years we were to enter into an engagement for another term of eighteen and a half years, or a longer period. The right hon. Gentleman would extinguish, in the course of about eighteen years, £12,000,000. There would then remain about £12,000,000 more in the hands of the Commissioners of the National Debt for the purpose of satisfying the demands made by the depositors. So that in 1885 we should be in this position:—We should have wiped off £24,000,000 of money, but of that sum £12,000,000 would be in the hands of the Commissioners of the National Debt, applicable to the payment of depositors. That was proposal A, as far as he understood it. Then came proposal B, which was to apply £12,000,000 of assets to carry out something like the same process, and to purchase annuities which were to expire either in 1885 or 1905. Now, he wanted to know how these £12,000,000, which represented something like £13,500,000 stock, were to be converted into annuities. Did the Chancellor of the Exchequer intend to purchase annuities from time to time as he had £500,000 in his hands, or was he to purchase stock in the first instance, and convert that stock into annuities—was that to be done every year, and what was to be the term of years for which the annuities
 557
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  said, he concurred with every word that had fallen from his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard). He understood that his hon. Friend did not intend to stand in the way of the Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to his financial arrangements respecting the taxation of the country. But it was very different in regard to the Resolutions on the National Debt, and he fully joined in all that had fallen from the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing) on that subject. It really was the most important subject—scarcely less so than the successive schemes of Reform they had so lately been discussing—that would be brought under the consideration of Parliament. He would venture to suggest that if it would interfere with the convenience of Government in its other measures, to postpone this Resolution, then it would be better to let the Resolution pass, reserving to themselves the right at a future period to consider the principle of being committed for a period of twenty or possibly of forty years to pay a largo sum of money whatever the condition of the country might he, and after all paying off a comparatively small portion of the debt. Before sitting down he must add that he agreed in the proposals of his right hon. Friend with regard to the duties on timber and on wine in bottle, which he thought an excellent measure independently of the treaty with Austria; and with respect to that treaty he would say that he hoped events would not occur in Europe to in-
 545
 GENERAL DUNNE  was of opinion that in the transfer of seats Scotland had been much better treated than Ireland, especially when they considered the growth of taxation in Ireland. The measure before the House was ill-advised and badly considered—in fact, it was a mere dodge with a view to secure to the Government as much political influence as possible. He did not at all see why the county of Cork should not be divided, and Members given to each as in similar cases in England. Whether the boroughs of Ireland which had Members could be grouped would be a question in reference to the Act of Union to be considered. He thought there was a great injustice in giving additional Members to Scotland, while none were given to Ireland—this would work injustice to the latter country, for in his opinion the radicals of Scotland were more opposed to Ireland than the radicals of any other country.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, there was an essential difference between property and income tax, which were now grouped together. The reduction in the tea and sugar duties, and imposts of that kind, were insignificant in their importance as compared with the income tax, which
 555
 MR. WHALLEY  said, the question was whether the House was to sacrifice certain portions of the mileage duty on the means of locomotion, and at the same time refuse even an inquiry into the turnpike system, which hampered locomotion to a very much greater degree. In his opinion, the question of turnpikes was fairly entitled to the consideration of the House.
 MR. WHALLEY  protested against its going forth to the world that our national pre-eminence depended upon our coal-fields, for it was really dependent on our energy and enterprize—qualities which would enable us to bring coal from America or any other part of the world, if our own deposits were exhausted. He protested against the doctrine that if our supply of coal were to fail we should at all descend from our position as a nation.
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  agreed with the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) that Scotland was entitled to more representatives, and thought there were many towns which might very fairly be grouped, thus relieving the rural constituencies of a preponderating urban element. He wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer why he had not dealt with Scotland in the same manner as he had dealt with England as regarded the small constituencies? Wherever he had found a small constituency in England, he had grouped it with other small constituencies. Why was not the same system pursued with regard to Scotland? The Reform Bill for Scotland of 1832 dealt in this manner with the small Scotch counties. All counties too small to return representatives were grouped together, Nairnshire being coupled with Elginshire, and Cromarty with Ross. The same course should have been taken with the county of Sutherland, which should have been joined with Caithnessshire. That such was not the case was the result of a cool Whig job, by which the county was saved for a Whig nobleman. If they were to have Reform, let them have justice to one side as well as to the other.
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he wished to know, whether any proposal has been made for a Congress?
 SIR HENRY WINSTON BARRON  said, he understood his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Dungannon (Major Stuart Knox) to infer that the Conservative boroughs of Ireland were to be deprived of their Members for party purposes. [Major STUART KNOX: That is what I meant.] He would then remind his hon. Friend that Portarlington was represented by a right hon. Gentleman who was certainly not a Conservative; Kinsale, too, could assuredly not be called a Conservative borough; it had always returned a Whig, and was now represented by a most consistent Whig. That made two cases. Bandon was to be grouped with Kinsale. A third Whig borough—Mallow, was to be grouped. That could not be called going out of the way to disfranchise Conservative boroughs. Again, instead of disfranchising Dungannon by the arrangement that was proposed, there would merely be the putting of two Conservative boroughs together. He did not quarrel with hon. Members for standing up for their boroughs; but when they came fairly to argue the matter it was totally impossible to defend the existing representation of Dungannon, Portarlington, or Kinsale on principle. Whether they were Whigs, Tories, or Radicals, people in Ireland would say that it was impossible to touch the question of Reform at all without changing the position of those places. Under ordinary circumstances those boroughs would have been disfranchised; but a new principle had been started, and there was no desire to deprive any constituency, however small, of a share in the representation. If the principle of grouping had worked well in Scotland and in Wales, Ireland could not stand out against its adoption. With regard to the freemen, they could not deal with them on a different principle in Ireland from that on which they had been dealt with in England. They had not disfranchised the freemen in England. The freemen in Ireland were dying out by degrees; and, therefore, without holding them up as model electors, he would say, "Let time continue to do its work upon them, as it was now doing it." He was exceedingly grateful to the Government
 541
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask, Whether it is the intention of the Government to move the Resolution in Committee on the National Debt that night; and when, if the discussion is to be taken on the Motion for the introduction of the Bill, that Bill will be introduced?
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, the delay in laying on the table the Report of the Treasury Commission on the Irish Constabulary has arisen from some questions of pensions not having been finally settled. These have been now decided, and a supplementary Estimate will be proposed in a few days. I shall also ask leave to bring in a Bill on the subject, and I will tonight move for a copy of the Report. The Commission only inquired into the financial arrangements of the force, and I am not aware that the Lord Lieutenant contemplates any changes in other respects.
 MR. STANSFELD , in reply, said, he would take the earliest opportunity of announcing when he should be able to make that statement, but he did not expect to be in a position to do so before the Whitsuntide recess.
 MR. WHITESIDE : The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer has, by his surprising eloquence, involved this question in a state of confusion which the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Chichester Fortescue) has not succeeded in dispelling. The proposals of the Government, as far as I understand them, present themselves in this remarkable light—that England loses, Scotland gains, and Ireland gets nothing. The Scottish Members have declared that the grievances of their country are intolerable, and the Lord Advocate complained that by the present change they had only seven seats at their disposal. But I would remind the hon. and learned Gentleman that they have not yet those seven seats at their disposal; although he has, like a gallant Scot, taken it for granted that they have already passed into the possession of his countrymen. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren) says that Scotland ought to have twenty more Members; and he (Mr. Whiteside) had little doubt that the representatives of his country had only to follow up the policy which they had hitherto so perseveringly adopted of always supporting the Ministry to have a good chance of obtaining those twenty additional Members. But
 535 536 537
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he wished to know what the right hon. Gentleman proposed to do with respect to the question of boundaries in Ireland?
 MR. BRADY  said, that so long as the elections were not by ballot no change in the constituencies would be of any avail. He agreed with the hon. Member for Kildare (Mr. Cogan) the question of the freemen required to be dealt, with, and that the conduct of the freemen of Dublin would bring disgrace on any constituency. In fact, the representation of that city was in a most unsatisfactory state. In Ireland a £6 rating was equivalent to a £9 rental, and if that were established there would be no equality with England when the £7 rental was established. If they wished to reform the borough franchise in Ireland they ought to reduce the franchise to a £6 or £5 rating, but no system of election would work well till vote by ballot was established.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the House was aware that on Friday evening the Chancellor of the Exchequer fixed the Committee on the National Debt Acts as one of the Orders for this evening, and that the Government had the power of arranging those Orders in the way which appeared to them most convenient for the despatch of public Business. The Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on the National Debt Acts were intended to stand next each other, but they were accidentally separated and printed apart. On Saturday, knowing what the intention of the Government was and what was proposed, for the convenience of public business, the Clerk directed that the change should be made.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he must protest against the re-enactment of the Income Tax Act without an attempt having been made on the part of Her Majesty's Government to remove any of its gross inequalities. If those inequalities had been removed, the tax would have been more readily endured. He wished also to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the imperfect and clumsy machinery by which the tax was collected. The
 554
 MR. HUBBARD  said, that in order to meet the views of the Government and not to delay the passing of the Resolutions, which were of importance to the business of the country, he had agreed to postpone the Resolution of which he had given notice with respect to Fire and Marine Insurances. But having done, so he wished to say a few words on the first Resolution that was to be submitted to the House. The financial scheme of his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer consisted of three distinct parts. The first section related to what might be called domestic arrangements, the second had regard to politics and finance, and the third was a prospective view of the future state of the country and the possible collapse of her greatness and prosperity. He (Mr. Hubbard) wished to make a few remarks upon the first portion of the
 543 3d. d.
 MR. HUBBARD  said it would doubtless be exceedingly inconvenient to go into the Motion as to the reduction of the Fire and Marine Insurance Duties, of which he had given notice, after the discussion on the Re-distribution of Seats Bill, and he would, therefore, postpone it if the Chancellor of
 486
 MR. PIM  inquired of the Secretary for Ireland whether he intended to make any alteration as regarded the boundaries of boroughs? He approved the suggestion of grouping small boroughs or districts in Ireland, and asked whether it would not be well to join Rathmines and Kingstown together and make them into a new borough?
 MR. LAING  said, that a Re-distribution Bill was much more necessary for Scotland than one for the reduction of the franchise, which would not materially affect the representation in that country. He looked upon the present measure as a very scant measure of justice, whether they looked to the point of population or property. Under the Bill Scotland would obtain seven additional Members, for which he heartily thanked Her Majesty's Government; but still he could only look upon it as an instalment. The Lord Advocate had said that he (Mr. Laing) might be startled from his propriety by the influx of fifteen working men into his borough, whereas, in point of fact, there would be a much greater number admitted under the Bill, as already the working men possessed 30 per cent of the constituency. So far from being afraid of the Bill going too far, he was only sorry that it was not more extensive in its operations, and he wished to ask the Lord Advocate whether the franchise could not be still further reduced. The 40s. freeholders were found to act very well in England, and he should like to see them possessed of a vote in Scotland.
 MR. LAING  said, that every facility ought to be given to enable the Government to proceed at once with the Resolutions to be submitted to the Committee. The Resolution respecting the reduction of the National Debt involved principles of very great novelty and importance. It was, in fact, a question of committing Parliament to a prospective scheme of finance for many years to come, He did
 544
 MR. LAING  said, that irrespective of the details of this measure, a very important principle had been mooted in eloquent speeches recently delivered on the question. It would be a great convenience if the Chancellor of the Exchequer would state whether the discussion upon it would be taken before or after that on the Reform Bill, or whether it would be taken before the Whitsuntide recess.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  would only say that Ulster contained about one-third of the entire population of Ireland, and one-half of its wealth. If, therefore, wealth and population constituted a claim to representation, Ulster had as much reason to complain of the with drawment of a Member as any other division of the country. His chief object in rising was to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland the amount of the lodger franchise, which he understood was to be introduced in the Bill?
 MR. WEGUELIN  said, the great point to be considered was whether the country would bear the extra charge proposed for the purpose of paying off the debt by instalments — which was the real operation of terminable annuities. He would suggest to the Chancellor of the Exchequer that there was a fund which might very fairly be applied to this object.
 562
 MR. KENNEDY  agreed with the hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Brady) in thinking it signified little what representation was given to the people if the electors had not the power of exercising their privileges in a free and constitutional manner. The law relating to bribery and intimidation was the same for England and Ireland, but the position of the electors in the two countries was quite different. The elector in England was a free man; but in Ireland he was a serf, liable to be turned out at six months' notice after voting for the man of his choice, and liable to be distrained, as often happened, within a few weeks after he had recorded his vote. Protection to the county voter in the exercise of his franchise was the primary requisite, and no Reform Bill which omitted to grant it could be regarded as a substantial measure in Ireland.
 MR. MORRISON  said, he would like to know whether those duties could not be consolidated into a smaller number of items. He was also desirous of learning what the expense would be of collecting the farthing duty—because he thought it would bear an undue proportion to the total amount of the impost. He did not think that justice to the railway interest would allow of the duty on stage carriages being entirely removed as long as railways were taxed so heavily; because, though omnibuses could not compete with steam in point of speed, in many cases they possessed an advantage over suburban railways, inasmuch as they took up and set down passengers at their own doors.
 MR. COGAN  regretted that in this moderate measure of Reform for Ireland there had not been introduced a clause for the disfranchisement of the freemen of that country. No measure could be complete that did not do that. In Dublin the freemen were exceedingly corrupt and quite neutralized the popular votes. He would also suggest that instead of giving to Dublin three Members the Government should
 538
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, the income tax pressed most severely upon persons possessing incomes of £200 or £300 a year, and in his opinion £150 ought to be written off every income up to at least £600 a year. The tax at present pressed too heavily upon persons engaged in professions, such as surgeons, artists, schoolmasters, and clergymen.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  expressed his regret that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not considered the whole subject of carriage duties and placed them upon a different footing from that which they now occupied. The mileage duty was excessive, no doubt, and one proper to be considered; but advantage might have been taken of the occasion when it was dealt with to relieve horses and carriages now subject to the payment of Excise duty from that impost, levying whatever taxes were deemed equitable in the uniform shape of assessed taxes. It had been said that this tax was necessary, because where omnibuses ran in competition with railways it would not be right that the latter should be taxed and the former not. But he (Mr. Alderman Lawrence) was sure that the railway interest would be glad to see the mileage duty taken off altogether, because the public carriages were the best feeders of the railways. The omnibuses of the London district were now liable to a mileage duty of 1 d. s. s. s. 548 5s. s. s., 549
 MR. MONSELL  said, he would not take them after eleven.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  regretted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had during the last few years allowed 3 d.
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  suggested that the Government, if they had not finally settled the details of their plan, should so far alter it as to give a Member to the Queen's University in Ireland by grouping it with the University of Dublin.
 SIR DAVID DUNDAS  thanked the hon. Member opposite for Inverness -shire (Mr. Henry Baillie) for the particular interest he took in the county of Sutherland. The hon. Member had just been elected by 336 electors, and therefore it was but right that he should come forward as a great reforming authority,
 528 "And if they say I am not peer To any man in England here; Highland or lowland—far or near—"
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  must say that this subject was in a very unsatisfactory state. There were very few towns in England where cabs were allowed, as in London, to charge only  6d. 550
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  expressed his great satisfaction that the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer had at last been given to the subject of the National Debt with a view to place it on a more satisfactory footing. In the course of the right hon. Gentleman's able speech when he introduced his Budget he had told them that there were two ways, and only two, in which they could deal with this question. The first he said was to apply the whole or a portion of the surplus to pay off a portion of the debt outright, and the second was to apply the same amount to pay the difference in value
 560 561
 MR. POWELL  desired to express his satisfaction that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had taken up this question, and had announced his intention of carrying the reductions still further. In some small towns these carriage duties made all the difference between commercial progress and the stagnation of trade. The question whether it was worth the while of a commercial traveller to visit a small town
 552
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he did not think it advisable to enter at that moment into a discussion upon this extraordinary measure; but he would observe that the right hon. Gentleman did not seem to be aware that the Parliamentary boundaries of Belfast did not include more than half of the municipal boundaries.
 SIR. HUGH CAIRNS : The observations of the right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down are no doubt extremely interesting, and I dare say they have produced the effect which was intended, and have given to Her Majesty's Government an opportunity of considering the answer which they presently will give to the very distinct question that was put to them. The right hon. Gentleman is quite right in saying that the ordinary time for fixing the further progress of a measure which you have introduced is after the Bill has been read a first time. But the right hon. Gentleman entirely forgets that the Chancellor of the Exchequer informed us that he had to address his observations to three different questions—the question of the re-distribution of seats, the question of the extension and rectification of the borough franchise, and thirdly, to another question which he said was, perhaps, the most interesting one of all—namely, the procedure with the measures which were before the House. And the astonishment which was felt by some, certainly, on this side of the House was caused by the right hon. Gentleman, after having spoken some time with reference to the procedure, sitting down without having given us the slightest intimation as to what the procedure was to be. Now, are we unreasonable in asking the Chancellor of the Exchequer and Her Majesty's Government for some explanation upon this point?
 513 The Times "At the same time I cannot state too distinctly to the House, as we are desirous above all things not to be misunderstood, that our intention in laying the Bills on the table is confined at the present time to the object I have named—of giving information to the House, and that we propose to proceed with the Bill relating to the Franchise in England and Wales in the manner we announced, and with that Bill exclusively until its fate is determined." 514
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, notwithstanding the encouraging words of the right hon. and learned Gentleman, he feared the Scotch Reform Bill, at least, was likely to be some time under debate. He need not take up the time of the House by going into the proposed reduction of the franchise for Scotland, because, as
 522 523 pari passu
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY : We lately heard a good deal about standing or falling by the Franchise Bill. When I heard the Chancellor of the Exchequer make that statement it occurred to me whether it would be possible for him to strike out a third course and do neither one nor the other, and I must confess the right hon. Gentleman has accomplished that difficult task. The position the Chancellor of the Exchequer at present occupies reminds me of what we sometimes see when we return home late at night, and come across an unfortunate gentleman who has been "dining, not wisely, but too well," who is clinging convulsively to a lamp post, afraid to advance and unable to stand upright, but who is determined, if possible, not to fall:—so the Chancellor of the Exchequer now wants the House of Commons to bring him a stretcher to take him home.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  asked the Vice President of the Board of Trade, whether the Merchant Shipping Act and the Railway Clauses Act would be brought on tonight, and if so at what hour?
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, he would take the earliest opportunity of tendering his thanks to the Government on behalf of his constituents, to whom it was proposed to give an increased share in the representation; though he must suspend his judgment as to the mode by which the plan was to be carried out, until he saw the exact effect of the Government proposition. He understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to indicate that the boundaries of the burghs were to be determined by the population of the surrounding districts. That he thought fair and just; but he thought that those who were to be severed from their former constituencies ought to have a voice in determining their new relation. He must also tender his thanks to the Government for the liberality they had shown to Scotland generally. The scheme of distribution would, he believed, approve itself to the people of Scotland. There was only one part on which he had any misgiving. It was proposed to give an additional Member to Edinburgh, as the capital of Scotland. He thought it would be better to give that Member to the University, rather than a third Member to the burgh constituency. In conclusion, he would express his satisfaction at the indication given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the Government were willing to re-consider their manner of procedure, and to give the House an opportunity of discussing the franchise and the re-distribution of seats as part of one comprehensive measure. It would be a great advantage to prevent a mere question of procedure from again dividing that side of the House, and he thought the Government might make the concession without any loss of dignity, and without being justly open to the taunts of the right hon. Gentleman opposite.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, If it is the intention of the Government to refer the "Commons (Metropolis) Bill" to the consideration of a Select Committee?
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING - MAXWELL  hoped the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Lord Advocate) would explain one part of his Bill, respecting which some misunderstanding existed, at least on that (the Opposition) side of the House—namely, whether he intended that residence was in all cases to be attached to a county qualification, or whether the qualification was to remain as at present. While trespassing on the indulgence of the House, he might venture to say that, although considerable satisfaction would be felt that the Government had not altogether overlooked the claims of the Scotch Universities, there would be some disappointment at only one
 525
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the recommendation of the Committee involved not only a considerable increase of pay to medical officers in both services, but questions of the expediency of placing the medical officers of the two services on a different footing. The recommendations of the Committee were receiving due attention, and as soon as a definite decision was arrived at he would communicate the result to the hon.
 584
 MAJOR STUART KNOX  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is his intention to lay upon the table of the House a Return relating to Ireland similar to those relating to England and Scotland which are now before the House in reference to the Reform Bill for those countries? He asked for this Return because he had an objection to being smothered in the dark.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, we who occupy this Bench can greatly sympathize with the hon. and gallant Member opposite in his objection to being smothered in the dark, because we so nearly experienced that unpleasant operation. In reply to the Question of the hon. and gallant Gentleman, I may say that it is the intention of my right hon. Friend to lay upon the table very shortly the Return asked for.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he also would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer with regard to a statement that was made in this House last night in reference to the Reform Bill for Scotland. According to the printed form which had been laid before them, the town of Aberdeen was to receive an additional Member, but according to the speech of the Lord Advocate last night the city of Edinburgh, instead of that of Aberdeen, would receive the additional Member.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the statements contained in my speech and in that of the Lord Advocate are correct. The intention of Her Majesty's Government is to propose that three Members be given to the city of Edinburgh, and, therefore, it is not their intention to propose that an additional Member shall be given to the town of Aberdeen. It is, however, proposed to give a second Member to the county of Aberdeen. The error in the tabular form was owing to a misprint, which will be corrected.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, under these circumstances, he begged to give notice that
 585
 MR. FREVILLE-SURTEES  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he intends proposing any pensions to the widows and children of deceased Adjutants and Quartermasters of Militia Regiments?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that as the officers referred to were not liable to the dangers of foreign service common to officers in the Line, pensions to their widows and children had invariably been refused. He saw no reason for making the proposed change.
 LORD HENRY PERCY  said, that the matter was a most important one. In his opinion the question affected the interests of the whole army. No Government was entitled to introduce measures having a retrospective operation unless great public interests were concerned. Some of these officers had entered the army fifteen years ago, and had served with credit and without the slightest reproach in the Crimea, in Canada, or wherever they had been called by their duty. No fault had ever been found with the medical organization of the Guards. The warrant was certainly not wanted, and was ruinous to the interests of the assistant-surgeons, many of whom had served thirteen or fourteen years. It was generally found, indeed, that retrospective measures created a want of confidence in the army, and when measures of that kind had been promulgated before it had been found desirable to make a fresh change. In 1854, for example, the warrant that was then issued had to be altered in consequence of the discontent it created amongst the officers in 1857 or 1858. The way to remedy the evil occasioned by the warrant in question was very simple—namely, to allow all those assistant-surgeons in the service before the promulgation of this warrant to have their promotion, according to the old regimental system. He thought it hardly worth while to create dissatisfaction by carrying out a
 588
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  felt a great interest in a discussion respecting the medical promotion in a regiment in which he had had the honour to serve, and the interests of officers with whom he was as sociated. He could not help thinking that this warrant had not been sufficiently promulgated, and that it had remained for a long time unknown even to those whom it deeply concerned. He thought that its provisions should be made prospective and not retrospective, and that it should not affect those officers who entered the service before 1860. If that principle were acceded to, in his opinion there would be no semblance of a grievance to complain of.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : Although I am unable to admit that the Papers for which the hon. Baronet the Member for Fifeshire has moved are documents which the House has any right to claim, still, as I shall have to refer to them in the course of my reply to his Questions, it will only be in accordance with the rule of the House if I lay them upon the table. I therefore make no opposition to his Motion. I have, however, to make one or two observations with respect to his remarks and the request which he has made, and I hope I shall succeed in placing the matter before the House in a somewhat different light from what it appears in the statement of my hon. and gallant Friend. It is quite true, as was stated by my hon. and gallant Friend, that up to the year 1858—and I think I may say 1860—the rule of promotion from the rank of assistant-surgeon to surgeon in the Brigade of Guards was by seniority in the regiment. However, in 1858, as has already been stated, a warrant was published altering in almost every particular the status of the army medical officers—altering their position with regard to pay, relative rank, allowances, promotion, and pensions. The rule of promotion from the rank of assistant-surgeon to Burgeon was, save in some exceptional cases which were specified, to be by seniority in the service. Now, it has been stated that, the Guards not being specially mentioned in that warrant, there was nothing to show that its provisions affected the medical officers of the Brigade. I was astonished to hear that statement. Does my hon. and gallant Friend deny that the surgeons and assistant-surgeons of the Brigade of Guards have taken advantage of every provision in that warrant which tended to their benefit? Does he deny that the assistant-surgeons are at this moment in receipt of the increased pay given by that warrant, and that in the Brigade of Guards two at least of the surgeons of the regiments have
 590 591 "That on the appointment of surgeon becoming vacant, if in the Household Cavalry, the colonel of the regiment should be permitted to recommend for the succession the senior assistant-surgeon of those three regiments, if duly qualified, and he thought proper to do so, or, if he considered it more desirable to recommend the transfer of a surgeon from the cavalry or infantry of the line, or the promotion of the senior assistant-surgeon of the whole army, to fill the vacancy; and that the same rule should be observed on any vacancy becoming vacant in one of the regiments of Foot Guards, the promotion being given on the recommendation of the colonel either to the senior assistant-surgeon of those three regiments or the vacancy filled by the transfer of a surgeon or the promotion of a senior assistant-surgeon of the army if duly qualified." 592
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I understood my hon. and gallant Friend to say that, although it had never been officially promulgated, the assistant-surgeons of the Guards were perfectly aware of the decision which had been arrived at in 1860. If my hon. Friend does not admit this, I am prepared to assert on information which I possess, that the greater part, if not the whole of the assistant-surgeons of the Guards, previous to 1865, were aware of the decision, and that it underwent considerable discussion among them. With regard to the question of the merit of the case, I do not think it necessary to enter upon it at the present time. I do not see why what has been generally adopted in the army at large should not be adopted in the Guards. The hon. Member for Leitrim (Mr. Brady) contended that faith has been broken with these officers, who were natu-
 593
 GENERAL PEEL : Although I am perfectly aware that the opinions I am about to express will not be in accordance with those of many of my hon. and gallant Friends, I cannot but regret that the assistant-surgeons of the Guards should have urged the hon. and gallant Officer opposite (Sir Robert Anstruther) to call the attention of the House to a case with which [conceive it has nothing whatever to do. I take this to be one of the cases in which Parliament has, happily, come to the decision that it is not within its province to interfere with the administration and discipline of the army as long as confidence is felt in the Secretary of State for War and the Commander-in-Chief. I believe it is the universal feeling of the country that our army should not be made a Parliamentary army, and I have never seen any disposition on the part of Parliament to make it so. But, unfortunately, hon. and gallant Officers on both sides of this House are constantly induced to get up to call upon the House to interfere with the discretion of the Secretary of State and the Commander-in-Chief, and to seek by proceedings in this House to overrule the decisions of the responsible heads of the profession. A great case of hardship is made out for these assistant-surgeons of the Guards. I venture to say there never yet was a case of a Royal Warrant dealing with promotions which did not inflict hardship upon some individual or other When the Royal Warrant altered the promotion from the rank of lieutenant-colonel to colonel in the army, there is not the slightest doubt that captains and lieutenant-colonels
 594 Army List 595
 CAPTAIN VIVIAN  said, that whilst he agreed with the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon that the House should not interfere with the discipline of the army, and that it had always shown great disinclination to trench on the prerogative of the Crown, he must still remind hon. Members that the House had a right to supervise everything relating to that great money-spending establishment, and if anything like a case of grievance or hardship were put forward it must give rise to a sort of jealousy if the House were told that they were not at liberty to pursue the discussion, because of the prerogative of the Crown. It did not appear to him that the noble Marquess had given a satisfactory answer to the point raised. The medical officers of the Guards complained that they had been taken by surprise; and he must say that the answer of the noble Marquess did not successfully refute that allegation. It must be remembered that many of these surgeons had given up large and lucrative private practice to take service in the Guards; and it certainly could not be satisfactory to gentlemen whose future must be materially affected by the contents of these documents, to be told as a sufficient reply that some of them had known of the warrant, and that others had discussed it. He hoped His Royal Highness upon re-consideration would see grounds leading him to decide that the warrant ought not to be retrospective in its operation, and that the officers who had entered the service under the previous regulations would be promoted in their proper turn.
 COLONEL KNOX  said, the noble Lord the Secretary for War had admitted that there was an omission in not promulgating these warrants. With that of 1858 these gentlemen had nothing to do; and it was admitted that the document of 1860 was not a warrant, but only a submission or memorandum. The noble Marquess said that the medical officers of the Guards took the advantage of the Warrant of 1858 by taking the increased pay. Why, of course they took whatever was given generally to the army. He thought great credit was due to the hon. and gallant Baronet for the manner in which he had brought this question forward, and he ought not to have been met by having the prerogative of the Crown thrust down his throat; for if an injustice was done to any body of officers what appeal had they beyond those who made the order if it was not to the House of Commons? He wished to warn the present Secretary of State for War, and those who might hereafter hold that position, that the Warrant of 1858 was breaking down, and they were getting inferior classes of surgeons; indeed, it was very difficult to get any at all.
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, it should be borne in mind that the House voted all the supplies, and took a certain sum from the army and made the necessary provision for them. The Guards, however, were a separate and self-administering body, and that
 598
 LORD CLAUD JOHN HAMILTON , in seconding the Motion, said, that as the re-presentive of a large body of the people who were affected by the management of the
 601 602 603
 SIR HERVEY BRUCE  thought that the hon. Member for London (Mr. Alderman Lawrence) had made a mistake in saying that the property of the Irish Society was private property with which the country had no right to interfere. He agreed with the Chief Secretary that there was something inquisitorial in the part of the Return to which he referred, but he was glad that the remainder was to be given. He could not admit that the Irish Society had made the improvements with respect to the supply of water referred to by the hon. Member for London. He had himself been one of a deputation to the
 608
 MR. PEEL DAWSON  said, that in the main part of the Motion he fully concurred. The revenue of the Society amounted to £14,000, and was mainly held by the Society as trustees for local improvements. He did not think that in the management of their estates the Society had given sufficient encouragement to building leases in Londonderry. Another complaint had reference to the Society as a governing body, as there were only two of its officers who were permanent—one was the Governor, elected for life, and the clerk, who held office during pleasure. None of the other officers remained in office for more than two years. This part of the question was, some years ago, brought under the consideration of the corporation of London; but they positively refused to re-construct the Society on a more permanent basis with respect to its officers. He could confirm the statement that a great deal of irritation prevailed in the North of Ireland as to the management of the Society's estates. From his knowledge of the locality, he could endorse most of the recommendations of the Commissioners of 1854, although he must express his dissent from that part of those recommendations by which the transfer of the trust to the hands of the Lord Chancellor for Ireland was proposed, a functionary who from his position must necessarily be a strong political partizan.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the Abolition of Compulsory Church Rates. In doing so, I shall not have occasion to trouble the House at any length. It may be in the recollection of the House that during the debate on the second reading of the Bill for the Abolition of Church Rates, I presumed to offer certain suggestions which it appeared to me, from the state of opinion in the House and the kind of progress which had been made, if not
 620 621 622 623 624 "Be entitled to vote at any meeting of the parishioners or inhabitants in vestry assembled of the said parish or district upon any question relating solely to the election of any Churchwarden for ecclesiastical purposes, or of any chapel-warden, or to the repairs, re-building, ornaments, ministers, or services of the church of the said parish or district, or to the care or maintenance of the churchyard of the said parish or district, or to any voluntary rate assessed or proposed to be assessed for the purpose aforesaid upon the owners or occupiers of property within such parish or district under this Act, or to the application or disposal of any monies raised or to be raised by any such voluntary rate, and no such person shall be entitled to demand as of right that any seat or portion of the church be allotted, assigned, or appropriated to him by the Churchwardens." 625
 MR. AKLAND  felt grateful to the Dissenting body, so far as it was represented in that House, for the very handsome manner in which, as it appeared to him, they had met this question. But he merely rose to put a question to his right hon. Friend. He understood him to say that the Bill provided for the continuance of existing engagements where churches had been rebuilt and expenses incurred on the security of rates. The main difficulty would fall on the country clergy; but he knew that many of these looked forward to this settlement with hope and thankfulness. The question he wished to put to his right hon. Friend related to prospective engagements, whether there was anything in the Bill inconsistent with some such arrangement as this—where it was necessary to rebuild the church of a country parish, that the parishioners assembled in vestry should concur in rebuilding it, and that possessors of landed property, in conjunction with the next in succession to the entail, might charge their estates temporarily with a certain amount for the purpose of rebuilding such a church; and also whether it would be competent to the vestry to raise money for that purpose on the security of a voluntary rate?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I have to answer very briefly the questions which have been put to me. I must, in the first place, say I have not the same horror of shutting up any description of Court that seems to be entertained
 635
 MR. BRIGHT : I wish to suggest that in this Bill an end should be put to another imposition which I think is much less
 636
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to ask indulgence for the hon. Member for Peterborough. The right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Whiteside) had just said that the hon. Member's speeches against the Government were all very fine, but that he always voted with the Government. That was a most singular case of political ingratitude. The only critical division which took place before that on the Reform Bill was one which was well and judiciously selected on the other side—namely, that on the Parliamentary Oaths Amendment Bill. It was sought to mutilate and spoil the oath to be taken by Members of Parliament by the addition of words to the effect that no foreign Prince or Potentate had or ought to have any power in the courts of this country. Why nobody ever said or could say that they had. In the division list there were two names recorded, singularly enough, side by side—those of "Whalley, J. H.," and "Whiteside, Right Hon. J." With respect to what the right hon. Gentleman had stated as to the duty of the Government, he had only to observe that the Government proposed to deal with the whole question of oaths by a Commission, and they could not, therefore, deal with this portion of it. But when the hon. and learned Member for Clare (Sir Colman O'Loghlen) brought in his Bill, as he had a right to do, and asked them—Would they support it?—they had no hesitation whatever in saying that they would, and that they wished the measure every success.
 MR. COWPER  thought the Government should be careful not to interfere unnecessarily with the course of private Business; and the House ought not on the second reading to reject a Private Bill unless some important principle were involved. It was a question of public policy whether they ought to sanction the further erection of gas works in the neighbourhood of dwelling-houses? He (Mr. Cowper) thought it a grievance to the inhabitants to have a factory of this kind placed immediately in their vicinity. The peculiarity of the case was the gigantic size of the works. The noble Lord had said that gas works would not be tolerated near St. James' Park. Had he forgotten the works in Horseferry Road, within 400 yards of that House, and neither in St. James' Park nor in that House had any evil effects been experienced. Looking to the enormous extent of the proposed works, he did not see how it was possible to secure adequate protection by clauses, and in order to prevent the risks apprehended by many who were competent to form an opinion, he should oppose the Bill.
 COLONEL ANNESLEY  concurred in the opinion expressed by the right hon. and gallant Member for Huntingdon, and only rose for the purpose of making an observation with regard to a statement made by the hon. and gallant Gentleman who introduced the subject, and which was the only blot on the Secretary of State for War—how it was that the warrant, which in fact was not a warrant, was not promulgated to the medical officers of the Brigade of Guards. He thought the speech of his right hon. Friend the Member for
 596
 LORD DUNKELLIN  said, he thought his noble Friend the Secretary of State for War had scarcely met the case raised by the hon. and gallant Baronet (Sir Robert Anstruther). The grounds on which his noble Friend based his answer was, first, that the operation alluded to took place under a Warrant of 1858; and that the second order of 1860 was made known to the gentlemen whom it immediately affected very soon after it was written. In opposition to this the position of assistant-surgeons of the Guards was, that they did not accept the Warrant of 1858, and did nothing on the explanatory warrant or document of 1860. They had not accepted them because they really had no option in the matter. If they had had the opportunity they would not have consented to such a suicidal arrangement, for the sake of the additional 2 s. d. 597
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that if the right hon. Gentleman had introduced this Bill, and the debate had then terminated, he probably should not have presumed to say anything on the subject; but after what had fallen from the last speaker (Mr. Candlish), he thought it incumbent upon him to say, on the part of some hon. Gentlemen, at any rate, on that side of the House, that they were not at present disposed to accept the statement of the hon. Gentleman that the measure met the views of those who took the side of the Church in regard to this question. The hon. Gentleman seemed to assume that the measure would necessarily receive the support of Gentlemen who sat upon that side of the House. Now, he rose for the purpose of saying that, as far as he could form an opinion from the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, he did not think the measure would be regarded on the Opposition side of the House as a satisfactory compromise of the question. Of course, he said that with great reserve, for he had not yet seen the measure, and was only speaking on the first impression derived from the right hon. Gentleman's statement. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had terminated his short speech with a sentiment in which he was sure every Gentleman on that side of the House would join. The right hon. Gentleman said that he proposed this measure in the interests of peace, and that he trusted peace would be the result of it. All must concur in that wish; but he would remind the right hon. Gentleman that peace might be obtained in two ways—namely, by capitulation and by compromise. He had not had the advantage of seeing the draught of the Bill, but the Chancellor of the Exchequer had informed the House that the measure had been accepted by Mr. Morley, upon whom the right hon. Gentleman passed a high, and, doubtless, well deserved eulogium. He had, however, had the advantage of reading yesterday a speech de-
 629
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  begged leave to second the Amendment. He was glad to find that if the inhabitants of the districts surrounding the Victoria Park were deprived on that occasion of the advocacy of their more natural guardian, the First Commissioner of Works, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Bath (Mr. Tite) had stood forward on the part of the Metropolitan Board of Works as the vindicator of
 580 in limine per diem
 MR. AYRTON  said, that his motive for calling the Speaker's attention to the thinness of the attendance in the House when his hon. Friend rose was, that if that subject was then to be proceeded with there might at least be something like an audience to hear the discussion. His hon. Friend had made an interesting but by no means conclusive speech. Having no connection with any of the Water Companies—and he trusted he never should, for he held it to be very inconvenient for Members representing metropolitan constituencies to mix themselves up with commercial speculations—he took a dispassionate view of that question, and thought the House would not advance the interests of the inhabitants of the metropolis by acceding to his hon. Friend's Motion. When a subject like that was mooted within the House, it was generally the case that there was some enthusiastic person outside who had drawn the hon. Member's attention to the subject for some end of his own, and who had some private interest to serve; and before his hon. Friend sat down he disclosed what might be called the  causa causans 616 617
 MR. AYRTON  thought that after what had been stated by the hon. Member for Boston (Mr. Staniland), the Bill might be allowed to proceed. The best course would be to send this Bill before the General Committee upstairs.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  thanked the. Chancellor of the Exchequer for the excellent spirit in which he had subordinated political feeling at this anxious time to a desire to settle this long vexed question He would enter into the scheme with the utmost desire to see in it some settlement based upon the release of those who for any reason did not wish to pay church rates. A short time ago he made a similar suggestion himself by recommending the insertion of the word "conscientious," so that relief might be given to all, whether Churchmen or Dissenters, who did not wish to pay the rate. That was the early policy of the "Exemptionist" party. As, however, the chief obstacle to a settlement on exemption principles was the objection of Nonconformists to what they called "ticketting," which they thought involved in the term conscientious, he no longer pressed it. With regard to the Bill of his hon. Friend, he must strongly and clearly insist on one consideration. He hoped that after the persons who did not wish to pay church rates had absented themselves, and those who wished to pay had assembled in the vestry, the church rates should, as much as possible, minus the Courts of Law, assume the same character which church rates used formerly to bear—in other words, that, while there should be no bias beforehand to compel people to pay church rates, there should afterwards he no bias the other way, no attempt to force out of their old way those who chose to pay them as they had heretofore done. In describing the purport of the 4th clause, the Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated that the new form of rate would come into operation in parishes in which no other "sufficient" provision existed for the sustentation of the Church. Now, was not such a hint so thrown out almost a pledge from the Government to take into consideration what ought to be a sufficient provision; and did it not give the House an opportunity of striving to amend the unjust laws which the jealousy of the last generation had imposed upon the liberality of persons who were willing to devote a portion of their substance to religious purposes? He referred to the series of laws commonly known as the Mortmain Acts. All were aware of the absurd excitement which was raised by Alderman
 627
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  was anxious to say a few words in opposition to the Bill, as he held in his hands a petition signed in Victoria Park by the Rector of Bethnal Green and over 700 frequenters of the Park against the proposal. Referring, as it did, to a Private Bill, he was prevented by Standing Orders from laying it on the table of the House, but he appealed to it in defence of the opposition he was offering. He had spent the morning of Saturday on an ash-heap, by the River Lea, surveying the ground which the Company desired to usurp, and he had spent that morning in one
 581
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he believed the right hon. Gentleman was sincerely endeavouring to reconcile that which had been the subject of controversy for so many years, and as a member of the Church of England, felt grateful to the right hon. Gentleman for the attempt. It was his intention to postpone to the 30th of this month the Bill which he had himself brought in, so that it might stand after the measure introduced by the right hon. Gentleman. Such a proceeding on his part was nothing more than was due to this intervention of Her Majesty's Government to settle the question. Having considered the subject, however, for many years, he feared that there was danger in the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman. He feared that, by this proposal, a minority in a parish might acquire power to sanction a manner of conducting the services of the Church which was disagreeable and offensive to the majority; and that the means of introducing variations of the services in the different parishes would be obtained. One argument in favour of church rate3 among Churchmen was this—that if a congregation disapproved the manner in which the services were conducted, they had the remedy in their hands by withholding the rate. This Bill would considerably impair
 626
 MR. NEWDEGATE  wondered what the Commission which the Government were going to appoint would have to do, for the Government had settled the Parliamentary oaths, and were now about to sweep away this Declaration. Without denying that the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) generally voted with those who wished to defend the Protestant Constitution of the country, he must say that he knew no Member who, whether from accident or incapacity, did so much disservice to the cause he advocated as
 641 Laughter.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that he would not enter upon the question as to the share which the Fenians had in the war in New Zealand; but he wished to say, in answer to the hon. Member for Peterborough, that the Government most cordially supported the Bill. In reply to the objection that the introduction of the measure had been left to a private Member, he must observe that this Declaration against Transubstantiation was so utterly indefensible and devoid of foundation that it required but the touch of any Member of the House to make it fall to the ground. The only wonder was that the proposal for its abolition should not have been made long ago, and that the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland and other officers of the highest rank in Ireland should have been so long compelled on entering office to stigmatize, in terms which amounted to nothing short of contempt, the sacred doctrine of a Church to which many Gentlemen of the highest rank in the country and Privy Councillors sitting round the same table with himself adhered. The Government were about to issue a Commission to inquire into the whole question of oaths and to report as to which it was desirable to do away with or to amend; but this particular Declaration was so simple and indefensible, that the Government had no hesitation in giving the Motion before the House their support.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  did not rise to enter into the merits of the controversy between the Irish Society and their tenants, but merely to observe that he understood that the Irish Society had ever desire to give as much information as possible respecting the receipts and expenditure, and some important parts of the Return which his hon. Colleague in the representation of Louth (Mr. Kennedy) had given notice of his intention to move for would be produced, but the Society naturally objected to give the case of every particular tenant, and of the grants and renewals of leases. He hoped the hon. Member would agree to accept the information offered, for when it was in their possession they would be better able to judge of the question before them.
 MR. READ  asked, whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer could not also embody in the Bill a clause for the abolition of the compulsory payment of certain Ecclesiastical dues, such as visitation fees, synod fees, and sundry other charges for which Churchwardens were personally liable?
 MR. CUBITT  asked, if the Bill was only applicable to rates for the Church of an Ecclesiastical district or to the rates for the mother Church as well?
 MR. WHALLEY  complained of a question of such importance being brought forward by a private Member, and not on the responsibility of the Government. The same course had been taken with regard to the Oaths Bill and the Scotch Episcopal Bill, although these questions lay at the very root of the Constitution. However, he did not intend to move the Amendment of which he had given notice; and the reason why he did not do so was because the Government and the right hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Walpole) had acquiesced in the principle of the measure. He had not altered his opinions, and he would,
 638 639
 MR. WHALLEY , amid cries of "Order! "denied that he had made any such statement.
 MR. WHALLEY  rose to reply, but was called to order by the Speaker.
 MR. PAULL  said, that it had been argued that wherever gas works had been established they were a nuisance to the neighbourhood; but it was remarkable that there had been no complaint against the City Gas Company as producing a nuisance in the neighbourhood of their works. He thought that after the concession which had been made by the hon. Member who had charge of the Bill, it should be read a second time, and that an opportunity should be afforded to make proper inquiry as to its merits.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  was speaking within the recollection of the House, by whom it would be remembered that the hon. Member stated that he had received letters informing him that the New Zealand war was attributable to the machinations of the Roman Catholic priests, many of whom had been educated at Maynooth. As far as Parliamentary usage would permit him to do so, he challenged the hon. Member to prove his charges; and if he thought he could do so, to move for a Select Committee, before whom he could adduce his proofs.
 MR. O'BEIRNE  reminded the hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Belfast (Sir Hugh Cairns) that a reference to the second clause of the Bill would show that his fears were groundless, and that he laboured under a misapprehension. As a Roman Catholic Member, he acknowledged
 642
 MR. WHITESIDE  observed, that the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) whose observations against the Ministers were always delivered from that (the Opposition) side of the House, always supported them by his vote. The present mode of legislation deserved, he thought, the notice of the House. This form of Declaration had been made for some centuries by the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and therefore he thought it was the duty of the Government to have considered this question. But the Secretary for Ireland said that it did not matter who touched a subject of this kind; and, although a Commission on Oaths was pending, the right
 640
 MR. BRADY  said, that after having given the subject the most careful consideration, he felt satisfied the original object of the trust had not been duly carried into effect.
 MR. BRADY  trusted that sufficient security for the public convenience would be taken if the Bill were read a second time.
 MR. BRADY  supported the Motion, and said, that the changes which took place some time ago in regard to the medical officers in the public service had a great effect in raising the standard of those gentlemen generally. He, however, held that the advantages hitherto conferred on them were after all by no means commensurate with the services which they rendered to the country. Nothing was more calculated to injure the service than the adoption of any regulation by which the younger men of the service were advanced over the heads of their seniors, not because their merits were greater, but because it was thought expedient by the military authorities to introduce an entirely new system of promotion. The warrant in question committed a gross injustice against those officers who had entered the service upon the faith of that system under which promotion was to proceed according to seniority.
 MR. CANDLISH  thought it was a matter of congratulation that this proposal had been recognized on both sides of the House as one likely to settle this long and much-vexed question. He believed there
 628
 MR. DODSON  hoped that, considering the manifest feeling of the House, the hon. Member (Mr. Staniland) would not press the second reading to a division. The hon.
 583
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to carry out the recommendations as regards increased pay, &c, of the Committee which was appointed to inquire into and report upon the grievances of Medical Officers of the Army and Navy; and if there is any objection to lay the Report upon the table of the House?
 COLONEL NORTH  said, the noble Lord the Secretary of State for War having referred to the Warrant of 1858, he could not help remarking that if the surgeons of the Guards were amenable to that warrant surely all the high offices affected by it should be open to them. He was one of the Committee of the House on the Medical Department of the Army, and he must say that every Member of the Committee was satisfied that the medical and hospital arrangements of the Guards under their own surgeons were a model for the rest of the army.
 MR. STANILAND  said, he should not press his Motion.
 MR. STANILAND  said, he was not disposed to press the second reading of the Bill, so far as it related to the erection of buildings in the neighbourhood of the Victoria Park; but there was a second portion
 582
 MR. HANBURY  said, that the works were so placed that every north and east wind would blow the sulphurated hydrogen across the Park. He trusted, for the sake of the people using the Park as a place of recreation on Sundays, the House would reject the Bill.
 MR. INGHAM  said, that the fact of the medical officers having accepted the Warrant of 1858 seemed to be construed into an abnegation of all the privileges to which the medical officers in the Guards were formerly entitled. That, he thought, was a very hard construction to place upon the matter, and although he acquitted the heads of the Department of any intention to do injustice to those for whom the appeal was made, he could not help thinking there had been inadvertence. It was especially unwise to promulgate any measure of doubtful justice at the present time. He
 589
 MR. RUSSELL GURNEY  said, that the Irish Society were anxious to afford every particular in their power with reference to the nature of their trust and the manner in which their powers had been
 609
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY : The question of the water supply of London, affecting, as it necessarily does, the daily comfort and essential well-being of at least 3,000,000 of our fellow-subjects, is one which might almost be considered as one of national interest; but certainly to us who live in this metropolis it can hardly be doubted that it is one of paramount importance, and I therefore hope that it will not be thought useless if I ask the House to grant me their attention for a short time whilst I state the reasons which induce me to ask for a Committee to take into consideration the question of the present condition of our water supply for London and its immediate vicinity. It is now about fifteen years since any serious inquiry into this subject has taken place before this House. The whole question was then very fully investigated, and legislation took place by which the then existing Water Companies who had, and who continue to have, a monopoly for the supply were placed under fresh regulations and required to lay out considerable sums of money for improving both the quality and increasing the supply. I am not going to find fault with the way these arrangements wore then carried out, nor in a general way do I question either the quality or the quantity which, as a whole, is daily poured into London; but whilst I admit this in a general way, I am pro-pared to contend that the distribution is not satisfactory, nor are the prospects at all satisfactory for the future, nor are the poorer classes as well supplied with an abundant supply of that most essential ingredient to their health and comfort, as might be the case under more improved arrangements, and such arrangements as are generally made now in most of the large towns in England. I will divide what I am about to state into two parts—1st, as to the present mode of distribution; and 2nd, as to the future prospects of supply. First, as to distribution—the great object is, of course, to secure the largest quantity or a regular supply to every house at the smallest amount of cost. Sir William Clay, formerly a Member of this House, and who was then a
 611 "That any person who will take the trouble to ascertain the utmost quantity of water which an individual requires day by day for all possible purposes of cleanliness and comfort, will find that a supply of twelve gallons to every member of a household will leave a surplus abundantly sufficient for other purposes in a large or small family." 612 613 614 615
 MR. THOMSON HANKEY  said, he had no other object in bringing the matter forward than the public good, and after what had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman he would not press the Motion.
 MR. KENNEDY  rose to call the attention of the House to the recommendations contained in the Report (1854) by the right hon. Henry Labouchere, Sir John Patteson, and George Cornewall Lewis, Esq., Commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the Corporation of the City of London, namely—
 "We recommend that the Irish Society he dissolved, and its charter be repealed by Act of Parliament; and that its property be vested in a new set of trustees, whose number and character should be defined in the Act. We recommend, farther, that the trustees be appointed by the Lord Chancellor of Ireland, and that he have power to fill up vacancies as they occur from time to time. A general scheme for the guidance of the trustees in the management of the property ought, as we have already stated, to be laid down by the Act. but as it may be difficult to define once for all every portion of a scheme of this kind, and as it may be desirable, as circumstances alter, to alter the provisions of the scheme to meet them, power should be given to the Lord Chancellor of Ireland to
 599 600
 MR. COGAN , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, he hoped it would meet with the general approval of the House—indeed, he should not have expected that any opposition would be offered to the measure had he not seen on the paper a notice by the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley) to move that the Bill be read a second time that day six months. As, however, on the first reading the Chancellor of the Exchequer expressed the acquiescence of the Government in the Bill, and as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), with that conciliatory manner which always characterized him, notwithstanding the strong views he entertained with regard to certain principles, also assented to it, he trusted that the
 637
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  hoped that equal justice would be meted out to the dwellers in the East and West of London. Victoria Park was peculiarly the people's Park, to which the hard-worked artizans of the thickly-peopled neighbourhoods resorted with their wives and children to obtain health and recreation, and their comfort and welfare ought to be carefully guarded.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  said, that great misapprehension prevailed respecting the constitution of the Irish Society, the benefits which it had conferred upon Ireland, and its present position. The Irish Society was established by the Corporation of the City of London at the request of James I., who desired them to take the management of certain devastated lands which had previously belonged to the O'Neills, and other powerful Irish families. The Livery companies of London were called into council by the corpora-
 604 v. 605 606
 MR. TITE  rose to move that the Bill be read a second time this day six months. The site which the Company now occupied in Bethnal Green had never, he believed, been sanctioned by legislative enactment; but they had power to hold lands in the parish of Bow, close to Victoria Park; and they had twice sought to obtain legislative power to establish and increase their Works at that point. Last year, after considerable discussion, a Bill passed that House, but was thrown out in the House
 579
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he could not admit that the metropolis possessed a satisfactory supply of water; and if London went on increasing for the next twenty years as it had increased during the last twenty years, he, for one, did not know what the inhabitants would do for water. The question was one of great importance,
 618
 MR. BAINES  regretted that the noble Lord the Member for North Leicestershire (Lord John Manners) should have introduced the word "victory" in reference to this subject, having hoped that no victory would be spoken of but that of justice and peace; for, while the measure was one of simple justice, and Churchmen would sacrifice but a small amount by the abolition of the rate, it would bring the Church an amount of peace, independence, and vigour of action which would be of immeasurably more value than all she resigned. The Bill would remove the double injustice of requiring Dissenters, under the name of religion, to pay a compulsory rate, which was contrary to their principles, and also to pay for the maintenance of a form of worship of which they did not approve, while they maintained that of which they did approve; and this injustice could not be removed without the Church reaping fruit in the accession of valuable strength. He was confident that the Church would raise more voluntarily than she had done by church rates. If the Bill were carried, there would be no attempt on the part of Dissenters to interfere with the administration of the funds to be raised by the Church under its provisions: such interference would be an impertinence and an injustice, and he would discourage it to the utmost. He really did not understand the remarks of the hon. and learned Member for Marylebone (Mr. Chambers), because if the courts were closed against the enforcement of a rate the form of compulsion would no longer exist. It was, indeed, possible that in some places a kind of moral compulsion might be attempted; but he hoped it would not be so, and it would certainly be known even in the remotest village that legal compulsion no longer existed. He could not help thinking the suggestion of his right hon. Friend (Sir Robert Peel), with reference to the exclusion of Dissenters from
 634
 MR. WATKIN  said, he did not agree with the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets. His argument was, that this inquiry should not be granted, because fourteen years ago what he called a settlement of the water supply of the metropolis had been arrived at. No doubt fourteen years ago a certain settlement was come to on this water question—that was to say, a Select Committee sat to consider certain Bills promoted by private Companies, and they passed certain resolutions. But was the London of 1852 the London of 1866? The question of metropolitan gas had been referred to a Select Committee, and the question of metropolitan water was much more pressing than that of gas, and certainly justified and demanded inquiry as much. A Bill was before the House last year embodying a project, which was opposed on the ground that the volume of the Thames was now so diminished that not a drop of water could be spared. There was certainly a danger that the water of the Thames would before long become insufficient for the healthful supply of the increasing population of the metropolis. The question was not whether Mr. Bate-man's scheme should be adopted, but whether there should be an inquiry with the view of ascertaining the best scheme for obtaining a supply of water. If the Committee met upstairs to-morrow, and recommended any plan for supplying the metropolis with water, it would be six or seven years before this new source of supply came into operation. Manchester and Glasgow had set a bright example in this respect, and the Government would be incurring a great responsibility if they did not look ahead in this matter.
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he believed the Irish Society to consist of gentlemen of high honour, who were anxious to discharge their duty in a proper manner. They were, however, unacquainted with the management of large landed property in Ireland, and they fell into the error of dribbling away their funds in small donations which did more harm than good to the recipients. He found that during
 607
 SIR GEORGE GREY  understood the substantial portion of the Motion would not be objected to, omitting that portion referring to the particular tenants and the tenure under which they held. The Motion might, therefore, be put in the amended form.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that if any substantial complaint had been made as to the quality or quantity of the present water supply, his hon. Friend (Mr. Thomson Hankey) would have made out a fair case for the appointment of a Committee. His hon. Friend had not, however, rested his Motion on that ground, but had admitted that the supply to the metropolis was ample for the wants of the present time. But then it was contended that in twenty years' time, if the population went on increasing at its present rate, 1,000,000 or 1,500,000 would be added to the inhabitants of the metropolis, and that then the present sources of supply might be insufficient. But as his hon. Friend admitted that the present supply was ample, and the quality good, it seemed that, at present, the only thing that inquiry was wanted for was to determine whether the supply should be constant or intermittent, and whether Mr. Bateman's plan was a good one. His hon. Friend said he did not wish the Committee to inquire fully into Mr. Bateman's plan; but, if so, it would be better not to inquire into it at all, for without a searching inquiry a Committee would not be able to say whether it would be safe to act upon it. As to any plan of getting a supply of water from a distant place, if there were any well-founded apprehensions of a limited supply, public Companies would be formed, plans would be prepared, Bills would be brought in, they would be referred to Committees, and ample evidence would be taken upon them. He thought the House was not now in a condition to inquire into such a project as that of Mr. Bateman (though he did not mean to say it was not a good one), or to appoint a Committee. If any complaint were made as to a deficient supply or distribution of water, and if that were brought before the House by petition or authentic information, he should consider it his duty to advise the House to act upon it. By the clause of the Act which had already been pointed out, it was provided that, if at any time there should be a complaint as to the quantity or quality of the water, such complaint might be brought under the notice of the Board of Trade by a memorial signed by twenty of the inhabitants, and the Board of Trade might, at any time within one month after the receipt of such memorial, cause an in-
 619
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, that that Committee had not power to examine witnesses upon oath, which made a serious difference when a Bill was likely to be strongly contested, and therefore he objected to the Bill being so referred.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER , in calling the attention of the House to the proposed alteration in the system of promotion among the Medical Officers of the Brigade of Guards, and in moving for an Address for Copies of the Warrant or Order of 1860, under which a change in the system of promotion among the Medical Officers of the Brigade of Guards is to be made; and of any Communication from the War Office or the Horse Guards to the Officers commanding the three regiments of Guards, intimating the proposed change of system to the Officers affected by it, said, that though his Notice nominally referred to the Brigade of Guards only, he believed, in that fact, the Motion affected the whole of the medical department in Her Majesty's service, and, through that department, the whole medical profession throughout the country. It could scarcely be expected that first-class men of the medical profession would enter Her Majesty's service unless they could be certain of the rules under which their promotion was to be regulated. It was supposed by some that his Motion went further, and affected the authority of the Crown over the army. He should be the last man to wish to see the power of the Crown over the army controlled in any way, and he should regard it as a great misfortune were that House to take the control of the army into its own hands; but they had a right to expect that the recommendations which were given to Her Majesty by her advisers should be made with a due regard to existing and ancient interests, and that any innovation upon the ordinary rules should be preceded by ample notice to the parties likely to be affected by such changes. The promotion to the rank of surgeon in the Guards had hitherto been regulated by seniority in the regiment, and he had heard of no reason why a system which had endured for so many years should be altered. It appeared that in 1858 a Royal Warrant was issued, founded upon the recommendations of the Royal Commission of 1857, which ordered that the assistant-surgeons should as a general rule be promoted to the rank of surgeons in the order of their seniority in the service, unless exceptional circumstances should prevent them being so promoted. The medical
 586 "That promotion by seniority in the Brigade is recommended by his Royal Highness as the most suitable arrangement, and would be adhered to." 587 "Copies of the Warrant or Order of 1860, under which a change in the system of promotion amongst the Medical Officers of the Brigade of Guards is to be made:" "And of any Communications from the War Office or the Horse Guards to the Officers commanding the three regiments of Guards, intimating the proposed change of system to the Officers affected by it."
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER , In reply, insisted on the hardship of bringing parties under the operation of the warrant when the noble Lord himself admitted they had never seen it. He had not the least wish to interfere with the prerogative of the Crown in this matter, but he begged very respectfully to submit to the noble Marquess and the Commander-in-Chief, not as a question of right but of justice, that the action of the warrant should simply not be retrospective. He thanked the noble Lord for having agreed to lay the papers he required on the table.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, that the Secretary for War had misunderstood him, in arguing that he admitted that the assistant-surgeons of the Guards were aware of the warrant. What he had said, however, was that there was absolutely no communication to them till 1865, and the communication then sent referred to a very small part of the submission from which the Secretary for War had quoted.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Of course, it is premature to discuss now the proposals which the Chancellor of the Exchequer has submitted; but I must express my dissent from the observations made by the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Thomas Chambers.) He says that, on the part of the Church, he looks with apprehension on the proposals of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I am rather inclined to concur with the remarks of the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Beresford Hope.) I care not whether the Liberation Society, or any other society, has been working for the abolition of church rates. I think the House will concur with the hon. Member for Stoke in looking upon the proposals of the Chancellor of the Exche-
 632 Expression of dissent. 633
 MR. THOMAS CHAMBERS  said, he agreed with the noble Lord (Lord John Manners) that this was not a compromise, as it abolished church rates in the only form in which they were recognized and could be enforced by law. If he were a Dissenter, he should say this was not a compromise of the question, but the winning of it. As a Churchman, however, he must express his regret not that church rates were to be abolished, at which he rejoiced, but that they were to be abolished in the particular form proposed by this Bill. Church rates, as they have hitherto existed, had, at all events, one advantage—they compelled every man, according to his pecuniary ability, to subscribe towards the maintenance of the Church. The abolition of church rates would throw the burden of the maintenance of the Church exclusively on the friends of the Church; they would have to support it by voluntary contributions, and that would be the result of voluntary church rates. It was now proposed to abolish church rates by a Bill which set up an apparatus that would present to the minds of the people the
 630 631
  MR. PACKE  said, he had acted as a Chairman of Quarter Sessions for upwards of thirty years, and he thought no case had been made out for the Bill. Had a foreigner listened to the speech of the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Colvile) he would have inferred that the magistrates were not present at committals, or had no voice in the matter, and that the prisoner was committed by the clerk. Now he never sat on the bench when the magistrates did not act on their own judgment, uninfluenced by the clerk. He was sorry the hon. Baronet the Secretary of State for the Home Department was not present to defend the magistrates from the reflections which had been passed on them. The clerks in his own county were paid by salary under the permissive law passed a few years ago, and he hoped and believed this system would be more extensively adopted. For he quite concurred in the opinion that it was better to avoid the possibility of suspicion, that the clerk advised the committal in order that he might obtain the fees for prosecuting. He did not, however, think a sufficient case had been made out for the Bill, and he should therefore vote against the second reading.
 MR. SCOURFIELD,  as a member of the Commission of 1855, remarked that the evidence of the Lord Chief Justice was irrelevant to the question now before the House, his examination having been confined to the appointment of public prosecutors. While admitting the right of the hon. Gentleman to bring forward this proposal, he must say that it was inconvenient to deal with matters of legal procedure in this patchwork manner; and if an alteration were required in the administration of the law, he would rather see a Bill introduced by the responsible advisers of the Crown. In his eighteen years' experience as Chairman of Quarter Sessions, he could hardly call to mind a case in which improper motives could have actuated the committal, and so far from its being the vice of the age to prosecute people improperly, he believed that for one person who was improperly convicted there were 999 who were improperly acquitted, or, he should rather say, who were not brought under the cognizance of justice at all. The question of the appointment of a public prosecutor could scarcely be discussed on this occasion; but he was persuaded that the Bill would make matters worse in every respect, and he hoped that after the expression of opinion that had taken place, the hon. Member would not put the House to the trouble of a division.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he had listened with great attention to the remarks of the Member for Oxford to see whether he had any arguments to bring forward in support of the Bill, and he must say that he had not heard one single thing in its favour. The subject was to be looked at from two aspects—first, would it forward the cause of justice; and secondly, had the clerks of the justices recommended prosecutions for the sake of the fees? Neither of those propositions had been proved. It was impossible that magistrates would allow a prosecution to go on improperly in order that the clerk might get the fees, unless they were fools not to see it, or knaves sufficient to allow it, and he could not believe that the magistrates sitting in petty sessions were either the one or the other. He had been waiting to hear some case of corruption of this kind cited in support of the Bill, but nothing of the kind had been brought forward. During the great number of years he had had experience as a magistrate he did not recollect an instance of the sort coming within his knowledge. He had, however, known charges which had not been brought forward by magistrates' clerks, and that never ought to have come before the quarter sessions, preferred by others; and in every instance that they had come before him he had disallowed the expenses except those witnesses who had been bound over, and for whom he had felt some compassion. He found as a general rule that magistrates' clerks got up their cases better than other people, and if those gentlemen were prevented from prosecuting, none of the miserable cases which came before quarter sessions would have any person whose duty it would be to look after them, and the result would be that the unfortunate man who had been robbed would come gaping into court, and the chairman would have to grope through perhaps thirty or forty depositions, and to take his chance of sifting out the truth. Under such circumstances he should certainly oppose the second reading of the Bill.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, it was not his intention to oppose this stage of the Bill, but it would be necessary to make some amendments in it in Committee. He thought the Bill went too far in declaring that any one who called himself a veterinary surgeon without having the diploma of the Veterinary College should be amenable to the law. If, however, he assumed that he was a member of a College when he was not, that might render such a person liable to penalties. In the case of the chemists and druggists and the pharmaceutical chemists, it was made an offence to assume the name of pharmaceutical chemist, and if with regard to veterinary surgeons they added something to the title, such as Royal College, &c, it might form a reasonable proposition that for the infringement of the title the person so offending should be liable to a penalty. He did not, however, think that the state of veterinary science was sufficiently advanced to entitle the members of the College to a monopoly of the practice, especially as it had been proved that diplomas had been given to men whose knowledge of their
 657
 MR. HENLEY  could not wonder at the course taken by his hon. and gallant
 666
 MR. DENMAN  said, that as it had been stated that certain members of the Bar were in favour of the Bill, his opinion as a
 652
 MR. COLVILE  said, after the discussion which had taken place he would not press the Bill. He was quite satisfied with the result of the debate, and the knowledge he had obtained, that the House was in favour of paying clerks by salary. The Member for Chippenham had stated that the witnesses in the Committee on Public Prosecutions had declared that it was desirable that justices' clerks should prosecute. He would find this nowhere proposed, except when accompanied with the condition that the clerks should be paid by salary. If this was done, he himself would not object to such a proposal.
 MR. COLVILE,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that the measure was in itself small and unpretending, but it had this merit, that it would, if passed, tend to maintain the dignity of the law, and render pure the stream of justice. The clerks to magistrates stood in a very anomalous position. The whole question of the advisers to our unpaid magistracy required consideration fifty years ago; the rural magistracy were few and far between, their butlers were generally their clerks, and their only legal advisers "Burns Justice;" the increase of population and the consequent increase of crime had altered this, but the position of the clerks had not kept pace with the requirements of the times. The clerk to the magistrates was charged with very responsible duties, he was the legal adviser of the justices to whom he acted, and yet he had no freehold in his office, and he was liable to be discharged at the pleasure or caprice of the magistrates. Now, the House had imposed on these clerks very important duties. They were compelled to make Returns to the Home Office under no less than seventeen statutes, some of which were of a very important nature. The position which he held was this—that these clerks should be paid by salary; that they be attorneys of a certain standing, should not be removable from their office except for misbehaviour, and that they should have no direct or indirect pecuniary inducement to recommend commitments to the justices whom it was their duty to advise. He was aware that there was an organized opposition to his proposal, the justices clerks had, like other trades, their union, and had determined to oppose his Bill; they had sent a form of petition to all the Petty Sessional divisions, 433 in number, but only thirty-one petitions had been presented against his Bill; this spasmotic action might keep the matter in its present position a little longer, but there was a strong feeling entertained by the ratepayers that the pre-
 645 646
 MR. NEATE  said, as no hon. Gentleman had said a word in favour of the Bill, except the hon. Mover, he hoped he should be allowed to offer one or two remarks. He thought that the present system of prosecutions was most defective, and that it was kept up for the mere sake of economy. It appeared to him that the magistrates' clerk—who was the person employed to prepare the depositions—was not the proper person to conduct the prosecution. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Member for Tiverton appeared to think that if the conduct of these prosecutions were not left in the hands of the magistrates' clerk there would be a failure of justice. It, however, occurred to him (Mr. Neate), that there was probably a failure of justice in some cases in consequence of the prosecutions being left in their hands. It was quite clear that if a scale of allowance was fixed in the different counties, which would give a sufficient remuneration, respectable attorneys would be found to conduct the prosecutions. There was no doubt that the whole system required revision. He, how-
 653
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he believed this Bill was valuable as a means of promoting the education of the veterinary profession. He had been many years one of the Governors of the Royal Veterinary College, which was the principal school of the profession, and he could assure the House that great exertions had been made by the College to raise the scale of education in veterinary science. No obstacle had interposed more constantly, or tended more directly to defeat this attempt than the fact that the education after it was completed brought with it no distinction, so that the uneducated as well as the educated appeared before the public with equal claims so far as appearances were concerned, as many as chose, however unqualified, adopting the denomination of veterinary surgeons. During the recent visitation of the cattle plague, veterinary surgeons had been placed in a difficult position. They had had to treat a disease which was practically novel in this country—for this disease had not appeared in this country for one hundred years. The Royal Veterinary College was informed of the nature of the disease from the reports of Professors Simondsand Spooner, the former of whom had made inquiries on the Continent, not only last year, but the year before that, and they had done everything in their power to prepare the profession for the dangers they had to encounter, and also to warn the public. But the profession was in this position, they were bound not to discourage any attempt to find a remedy.
 656
 MR. HOLLAND,  in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that its object was to prohibit any person from calling himself a veterinary surgeon who had not passed an examination at the Royal Veterinary College and obtained a diploma from that institution. There were at present 1,244 persons practising as veterinary surgeons under the assumption that they had obtained diplomas. There were 1,189, farriers who were acting as such who had no diplomas. Altogether there were 2,433 persons practising without any diploma against 1,144 regularly qualified practitioners. It was essential that an improved status should be given to veterinary surgeons, and he felt that a simple Bill requiring that every veterinary surgeon should be  bonâfide 655 ã
 MR. KNATCHBULL - HUGESSEN  said, allusion had been made to the absence of the Home Secretary during the discussion, but he could assure the House that his absence was inevitable, and that, if present, the right hon. Gentleman would have been ready to bear his testimony to the integrity and honesty which the county
 654
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  was most anxious to hear all that could be urged against the Report of the Commission before he addressed the House; because the reasons adduced by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin in favour of the rejection of that Report appeared to him to be so insufficient and inconclusive as not to require any reply. He wished, before making an answer, to hear what additional matters the learned Gentlemen opposite could bring forward in support of the argument of the Member for the University of Dublin. It had been assumed that his learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had moved the second reading of the Bill without making any statement as to its provisions. That was not the case. The Attorney General, while abstaining from
 667
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  said, that no doubt it was a mistake, and a very grave one, for the Master of the Rolls was one of the first witnesses examined, and his evidence was strongly in favour of the Bill. He wished to call attention to the names of the Commissioners who had been treated in such an offhand way to-day. They were the present Lord Romilly, Mr. Blackburn, the present Lord Justice of Appeal in Ireland, Chief Justice Monaghan, Mr. Brewster, Mr. Napier, Vice Chancellor Wood, Baron Hughes, Sir Hugh Cairns, and the English Attorney General. Was not something more substantial than the arguments of the Member for the University of Dublin required to induce the House to overthrow the settled opinion of a Commission composed of such distinguished men as he had just named?
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  was then proceeding with his remarks when—it being a quarter to Six of the clock—
 GENERAL DUNNE  thought the Bill was a personal rather than a public one. He was of opinion that the present system of the Court of Chancery in Ireland worked in a very satisfactory manner. It was popular, and he had been informed that it was infinitely cheaper than any system which could be introduced from England. He hoped, therefore, that this Bill would not be allowed to pass without some explanation being given by the Government as to the necessity for the contemplated change in the constitution of the court. It was only a matter of common courtesy that the Law Officers of the Crown should explain to the House why the proposed system was better then the existing one. Irish Gentlemen who were distinguished by their legal abilities had in the strongest language condemned a great part of this Bill, and it could hardly be expected that hon. Gentle men should vote for the Bill unless some attempt were made on the part of the Government to refute the arguments which had been advanced against it. In order to give the Law Officers of the Crown time to make the explanation which he demanded from them he should move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. LEEMAN  said, that for more than a quarter of a century he occupied the position of one of the clerks of the peace to one of the Ridings of Yorkshire, and he thought, therefore, he might claim to have had some experience in this matter.
 651
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  declined to consent to an adjournment.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he distinctly advised his right hon. Friend last night that the Court of Chancery Bill would be proceeded with, if time allowed, to-day. He did not himself know until he received his paper the order in which the Bills would be placed upon it. The Court of Chancery Bill had stood over from the month of March last, and he must, therefore, press that the debate be proceeded with.
 MR. WHITESIDE  appealed to the House whether, under the circumstances, they ought to be compelled to proceed with this Bill. The previous night there were three Irish Bills on the paper—the Petty Sessions Bill, the Common Law Courts Bill, and the Court of Chancery (Ireland) Bill. He found when he got his Parliamentary papers that morning, that the first of these measures was withdrawn. The Common Law Courts Bill stood next, and this Bill third. The Common Law Bill contained 144 clauses, and certainly afforded enough matter for discussion to have occupied the day, but he now found that, without any reason being assigned, that Bill was passed by without a word of explanation. He had come down prepared to discuss that Bill, and not the Court of Chancery Bill; and on the grounds of fair play he appealed to the House not to allow a Member to be taken by surprise after such a fashion. He begged to move under the circumstances that the debate be adjourned, and he hoped the Attorney General for Ireland would accede to that proposition.
 MR WHITESIDE  suggested that this Bill should be postponed, as he had come prepared with the papers to discuss only the Common Law Courts Bill, which had been postponed.
 MR. WHITESIDE  reminded the hon. and learned Gentleman that the question before the House was the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, if he were allowed a short time he would fetch the papers, and proceed with the discussion of the Bill.
 MR. WHITESIDE  returned, and said that he had not been the cause of the delay that had occurred this Session in reference to this Bill. He had only objected to its proceeding after midnight, for he was not willing then to plunge into Chancery, as the subject was bad enough in the daylight, and it was too much to expect the House to enter upon its consideration after dark. The measure had been before the House for some two years past, and proposed to effect most important changes in the present state of things. The first part of this Bill consisted of twenty-six clauses, and dealt with the appointment of new officers. Under this Bill he found that seventeen new officers might be appointed; to judge whether any necessity had arisen for this addition to the staff it was necessary to see what the staff was. In Ireland there was one Chancellor, one Lord Justice, one Master of the Rolls, three Judges in the Landed Estates Court, and four Masters—in all ten. In England there was one Chancellor, two Lord Justices, three Vice Chancellors, one Master of the Rolls, and one Judge of the Probate and Divorce Court—in all eight. So that in England there were but eight judicial officers to do all the business of Chancery, while there were ten in Ireland. Surely that was enough; and why, then, was it proposed by this Bill to increase the number to seventeen? The Committee which some years ago was appointed upon
 659 660 viva voce 661 "All statements made in a Bill or petition, being verified in the first instance, are accepted as true without further proof, unless denied. The English rule of practice, however, is the reverse;
 662
 MR. WHITESIDE  resumed: He said, that the system of taking evidence by the Judge, and not by the examiner,  vivâ voce, 663 in toto
 MR. S. B. MILLER  rose to offer some observations in respect to the Bill, in the hope of satisfying the House—or rather, as the House was so small—the public, that the Bill might well be considered unnecessary, wholly irrespective of the consideration into whose hands the patronage might fall, supposing the measure should pass through Parliament. He must also express his surprise that the observations of the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin had not elicited some remarks in explanation of the principle of the Bill from the Irish Law Officers of the Crown. The Bill proposed to overthrow the existing constitution of the Court of Chancery in Ireland, and yet neither the Attorney nor the Solicitor General for Ireland rose to offer one single word in justification of such strange proceedings. The Reports of the Commissions which had been appointed to consider this subject were incomplete, inasmuch as they only reported as to the advantage of assimilating the legal systems of England and Ireland, without taking any notice of that far more important question of the expenditure of the public money, and of the costs of suitors, which was prominently made the subject of reference to them. The chief clerks in the Equity Courts in England were assuming a jurisdiction which they were never intended to possess, and in some cases had gone so far as to act in opposition to the rule that no money in which a married woman had an interest should be paid out till after the woman had been separately examined. He did not say that he should be prepared to oppose the Bill at a future stage, but he thought that the House should have additional evidence on the subject before it proceeded to dispose of such an important question. The only information they had upon the question was that derived from essays and proceedings in Chancery, written by various gentlemen in reply to certain written inquiries made of them. The working of the present system in Ireland had met, as far as he knew, with the general approbation of the public, and it had the further advantage of being cheaper and more expeditious than that of England, and therefore better adapted to the poorer country. Irrespective of the salaries of the proposed clerks and officers, it would be necessary to erect entirely new courts if the English system
 665
 MB. S. B. MILLER  said, if he had made such a statement he had certainly done so by mistake.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  seconded the Motion.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  understood last evening the answer given was simply that the Bill would be proceeded with to-day, but nothing was said as to the order.
 MR. EVANS  regretted that he could not on this, as on most occasions, concur with his hon. Friend and Colleague, who had moved the second reading of the Bill. His experience convinced him that the present system was the best that could be adopted under present circumstances. At the same time he should quite approve the payment of justices' clerks by salary, and of their undertaking prosecutions as a part of their duty; but this Bill seemed to him to begin at the wrong end. It had been his duty as Chairman of County Sessions to endeavour to ascertain the opinion of the magistrates concerning this Bill, and there was almost an unanimous opinion that the Bill would do more harm than good. The same opinion, he was informed,
 650
 MR. GOLDNEY  moved that the Bill be read a second time this day six months. The only allegation in the preamble was that inasmuch as by the 5 & 6  Will. 647
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  said, he was at a loss to understand why a man should be prevented from assuming the title of veterinary surgeon. He suggested that when in Committee some alteration should be made in its provisions, to make them apply to those who held themselves out as members of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
 MR. STEPHEN CAVE  said, it seemed to him that the passing of this Bill would tend very much to increase the evils which the hon. Member was anxious to prevent, and would lead in many instances to extreme inconvenience, and even to the miscarriage of justice. Extreme accuracy being required in criminal cases, it was very important that prosecutions should be prepared by attorneys of the best practical knowledge and experience, and clerks to justices had, as a general rule, these advantages more than other attorneys. Again, it was of great consequence that the depositions should be accurate and full. Justices were not obliged to do more than was necessary to justify their committing a prisoner, and justices' clerks, if forbidden to prosecute, would have no interest in taking down more than barely enough to justify a committal; whereas now they had a direct interest in making the case as complete as possible, otherwise they would incur the censure of their counsel, and possibly of the court also. It was also very useful for the attorney to become acquainted with the demeanour of the witnesses, and a Queen's Counsel of great experience in criminal cases had related to him a case of murder, in which there would have undoubtedly been a failure of justice, had not the clerk judged from the demeanour of one of the principal witnesses before the justice that he was not to be relied upon, and been prepared with additional evidence accordingly. In important cases it was often necessary that justices' clerks should be present to give assistance and information to counsel, and if forbidden to prosecute, and yet obliged to be present, additional costs would be incurred. The costs allowed in prosecutions being very small, respectable attorneys would rarely undertake them; but justices' clerks having several cases, it was worth their while to do so, especially as they were able to copy the depositions on their briefs, instead of paying for copies. Mr. Greaves, who was second, perhaps, to none as an authority in such matters, and who authorized him to say that he disapproved this Bill, recommended that justices should ask the prosecutor if he intended to employ an attorney, and if not, should themselves appoint their clerk if he were an attorney; for, after forty years' experience, he was satisfied that justices' clerks conducted prosecutions quite as well as they could be expected to do, considering the low scale of allowances, and he had, as a general rule,
 649
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in reply, stated that the statute under which such lotteries were punishable was one that permitted proceedings by a common informer. The course he had generally adopted in regard to these matters was to prosecute in cases where the lotteries were got up for private gain, but not in cases where they were promoted for charitable purposes. Whether that was a right distinction or not was a matter of opinion; but if it was not thought a proper course a common informer might at all times prosecute. It was right to say further that he did not think the law regarding lotteries should be made the subject of sectarian complaints. Lotteries, or at least what were said to be lotteries, wore resorted to by persons of all denominations; but most of the complaints within his knowledge had been mainly directed against those for Roman Catholic purposes.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, he was afraid that he could not give his hon. Friend a full explanation of the subject without occupying too much of the time of the House. The short answer, however, which he might give was this. It was true that in December last such a branch was established, consisting of Mr. Lockyer and others, who would receive an extra allowance in addition to their pay. The duty was almost entirely a new one, and it was difficult to state precisely the amount of economy effected by the change, as it formed part of a larger system of reorganization which secured a saving of £4,000 a year. If his hon. Friend wished for a more detailed statement in regard to this branch he would enter into a fuller explanation on going into Committee of Supply.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL , in moving that the Bill be read the second time, said, that it was founded upon the recommendations of the Select Committee which sat in 1864–5, and was drawn up with the intention of reducing the whole of the bankruptcy laws of this country into one code, and also of effecting some very important alterations, both of principle and detail. As the plan proposed was intended to settle upon a sound basis the whole system of the law of bankruptcy in this country, it was necessary that the House should clearly ascertain how the question stood at the present time, and that they should take a retrospect of previous legislation upon the subject. The law of bankruptcy in England originated as far back as the time of Henry VIII.; and from that period down to 1705, in the reign of Queen Anne, it proceeded upon a principle which, whatever might be its defects, was in all respects consistent with itself—namely, that of regarding the bankrupt trader as criminal and fraudulent in contradistinction to other debtors. The law as it then stood was framed exclusively for the benefit of the creditors, and gave no discharge whatever to the bankrupt for any portion of his debts. The severity of that code was well illustrated by a clause in the Act of 21 James I., which provided that any bankrupt who could not prove to the satisfaction of the Commissioners that his debts were the result of unavoidable loss and misfortune was to be placed in the pillory and to have his ears cut off. In the year 1705, however, commenced a
 674 675 sine die. 676 677 678 679 680 "The consequence of retaining imprisonment for debt on final process has been that a multiplicity of petitions for adjudication of bankruptcy on the debtor's own petition are filed when there are no assets whatever, and these are resorted to mainly either for the purpose of being released from prison, or to avoid being put into prison. In most of these cases a certain expense is incurred without the least utility to the creditors. The following are the number of cases where there were no dividends in the years 1862 and 1863, and, therefore, where there were little or no assets; in 1862, 6,910 out of 9,663; in 1863, 5,630 out of 8,470." "I take the principle of the bankrupt law to be that a man has property to distribute. A commission of bankrupt being regarded as a species of execution, it was formerly considered to be no further authorized by the law than as a proceeding for the purpose of obtaining a fair distribution of the bankrupt's property among his creditors. If, therefore, a commission of bankrupt was issued by a creditor solely to serve the purposes of the bankrupt and not with any view whatever of benefiting the creditors, it was regarded as a sort of contempt of the Great Seal, or in other words, an abuse of the process of the Court." 681 682 cessio bonorum, 683 cessio bonorum, 684 685 686 687 s. d. s. s. s. d. 688 689 in formâ pauperis. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d., 690 primâ facie 691 "Will you tell the Committee generally how, in your opinion, the Act of 1866 has worked?" "Remarkably well; most effectually." "Do you think it has given satisfaction to the commercial community generally?" "Generally; indeed I may say universally. I use that term advisedly. I believe it has given the very highest satisfaction to the commercial community." "Have you the means of telling the Committee what proportion, on the average, of the amount realized is paid over to the directors in dividend?" "I have." "Will you be kind enough to give us any details upon that matter?" 692 "The average amount divided among the creditors, taking the experience of the first six years since the passing of the Act, is 78 per cent of the whole sum realized." 693 s. d. 694 695 696
 MR. MOFFATT  said, he would not trespass on the attention of the House by following the hon. and learned Attorney General through all the details of the Bill; but there were two or three important points to which he desired to draw the attention of the House. In the first place, he wished to point out the wide difference between the recommendations of the Committee and the provisions of the Bill. It was true that the recommendations of the Committee had been acted on in two or three very important points—such, for instance, as the abolition of the power of arrest for debt; but several other recommendations of equal importance had been disregarded. The Committee meant that there should be an entire abolition of the old administration of bankruptcy, and if there were one question more clearly defined than another by the evidence given before the Committee, it was that the whole system of the administration of bankruptcy had so excited the distrust and contempt of the mercantile classes by the delay, uncertainty, and malversation which attended all its proceedings, that every trader would rather suffer wrong and robbery from his debtor than have recourse to the Court of Bankruptcy. The only alleviation of that state of things proposed by this Bill was, not the adoption of the Scotch system, but only of a small fraction of it. The Committee recommended that the existing administration of bankruptcy should be abolished, that the Scotch system of one court of appeal should be adopted, that a Chief Judge in Bankruptcy, with one Registrar, or two if necessary, under him, should be appointed, and that the Court
 697 698 699 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. s. s. d. s. d. cessio bonorum, 700
 MR. COWEN  thought it would be very mischievous to refer the Bill again to a Committee, and that it would cause great and unnecessary delay. He strongly recommended that the measure should be proceeded with as speedily as possible.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he would fix the Committee  pro formâ
 MR. MOFFATT  signified his readiness to withdraw his Motion for referring it to a Select Committee, although he still, he said, retained the opinion that it might be made more perfect by the adoption of that course, and reserved to himself the right of renewing his Motion on a future occasion if he should think fit.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, intimation had been given to those Gentlemen most interested in the Estimates under consideration as to the course the Government proposed to pursue; but after what had fallen from hon. Gentleman, he suggested that they should proceed with the other Votes; and perhaps an hour hence, at about half past ten, the state of the House would admit of their considering the Educational Estimate.
 MR. CHILDERS  stated, that out of £30,000 a year which the establishments at Bermuda cost, this country bore a cost of £4,000; but the Treasury had been in correspondence during the last few months with the Government of the Bermudas, and
 723
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that some explanation was due respecting it. This was a matter of a very old arrangement with the colonies of North America, under which certain of the rectors and missionaries were paid from the Votes of Parliament; but as their number decreased by death the Vote would be reduced.
 MR. HADFIELD  thought that the taxing of England for the maintenance of clergymen in such a wealthy colony as Canada was a piece of absurdity, and he therefore objected to the Vote.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that the country was pledged to this Vote during the lifetime of the present recipients of the money, and there was therefore no possibility of getting rid of it. With regard to the clergy in the West Indies, that did not at all apply to the present Vote. That, however, would be a very proper question to raise at some not very distant time when the statute under which certain payments were made would cease.
 MR. HADFIELD  wanted to know in what manner the statutes would put an end to the claims in question. Would the successors to the present Bishops receive the same amount of money as was now paid, or would the payments cease with their death? There was a growing opinion both at home and abroad that it was time these things were done away with. They were mischievous, and produced a bad feeling in the country to which the clergymen were sent, although at the expense of England. He wished to have a clear understanding before going further that measures were being taken to put an end to these payments.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it was very easy to give an answer to his hon. Friend. This was an expiring remnant of what was once a heavy charge, which had been taken away under Earl Grey's Government. The money was for the most part remitted in very small sums to missionaries in the North American colonies; it was on the faith of this provision that they had committed themselves to a particular line of life. The stoppage of these allowances was therefore felt to be a very great hardship, and, consequently, it was determined that the money should
 724
 MR. CANDLISH  was opposed to all grants of this nature, but where individual interests were concerned he would not, to give effect to his own views, consent to do a personal wrong.
 MR. AKLAND  said, the money seemed to be received by the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, and a Society of that kind was not likely to die.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that they were only the agents through whom the money was paid.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, he observed in the Estimates a sum of £1,500
 "To make good the loss of emolument sustained by the Governor of New Zealand owing to his transfer from the more lucrative Government of the Cape of Good Hope,"
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that Sir George Grey was in receipt of a much larger salary before he went to New Zealand; but he was sent there on the supposition that he was the most suitable person, considering the state of the country, to fill the office of Governor, and the sum of £1,500 was to compensate him for the loss he had sustained by his removal.
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the salaries of both officers should have been stated, in order that hon. Members might be able to decide whether the sum to be granted was a proper amount.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that Sir George Grey did not profit by his removal to New Zealand. An addition was simply made to the ordinary salary of the Governor of New Zealand, to secure Sir George Grey against any loss in accepting a post inferior in the rank of Colonial Governors; and he accepted it solely at the request of the Home Government, for the sake of the public service.
 MR. HENLEY  thought this was a curious sort of proceeding. In the ordinary course of affairs New Zealand paid its own Governor; but it appeared from this proposition that the sum which the colony allotted for the purpose was not enough to secure a sufficiently good man. At the same time, the circumstances of the colony were such as to require the presence of a man of the highest ability and great previous experience, and if the colony could find such a man they ought to pay him adequately. If New Zealand wanted a man as highly gifted as Sir George Grey—who was, no doubt, a very able man, and with great previous knowledge of the colony—they ought to pay a proper salary to secure him. It was not a sound principle that this country should supplement payments made by a colony for local purposes. Of course Sir George Grey ought not to be the loser, but this was an awkward precedent to set.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, nothing could be fairer than the way in which the question had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman. The Vote was one of a novel description, and it ought to be carefully watched by the House of Commons, lest it should grow into a precedent. But he thought it was justified by the peculiar circumstances of the case. A particular emergency had arisen in New Zealand—a state of war, in fact. It was true that New Zealand paid for its civil Governor, and it was very probable that for the sum they allot a competent person might have been found, and one that would have carried on the government in accordance with the views of the colonists. But there were questions, such as those connected with the aborigines, with regard to which this country had feelings and interests not fully shared by the colonists, and the object of the Government was to send out a man who would not simply carry out the views of the colonists, but who would do justice to both parties. Sir George Grey, having been Governor of New Zealand for a very long period, was held to be the fittest man to effect a settlement. Now it was not fair to call upon the colonists to pay the whole salary of this Governor; because, in point of fact, he was not sent out to give effect to their views, but of those of the Government at home. There being thus a public object to be gained, the Vote, he thought, was perfectly justifiable; at the same time the proposal was avowedly exceptional in its
 726
 MR. READ  wished to know if it was intended that this Vote should go on indefinitely?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the Government of Sir George Grey had been already prolonged by exceptional circumstances in the colony, and therefore the extra charge was not likely to be of long continuance.
 MR. HENLEY  agreed that the money ought to be paid, but the precedent was an awkward one whichever way it was looked at. The colony might complain and say, "You are paying a man high to come out here and do what we do not want to be done."
 MR. BENTINCK  was satisfied with the explanation furnished by the Government, but thought a full statement ought to precede Votes of so exceptional a character. He wished to learn the details of Sir George Grey's salary, and whether there was any likelihood that the amount now voted would ever be repaid by the colony.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the Vote was a free grant by the House, made with no undertaking, contingent or otherwise, on the part of the colony, to refund the amount. The Vote added to Sir George Grey's salary as Governor of Now Zealand would exactly make up his official income as Governor of the Cape of Good Hope.
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  objected to the principle of paying for the magistrates of the West Indies, especially as it appeared from recent events that justice there was very partially administered, and that the black people were cruelly oppressed, and a stipendiary magistracy, if it existed at all, ought to be paid from the local funds.
 MR. CARDWELL  agreed with much that had fallen from the hon. Member. But it was an expiring Vote, the residue of a much larger sum. As to the administration of justice, it would require more than the six magistrates referred to, to do justice in the island.
 MR. HADFIELD  asked would the Vote expire as the magistrates die off?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Yes.
 MR. W. E. FORSTER  said, that after the Emancipation Act stipendiary magistrates were sent out from England, whoso exertions had proved most salutary. The House of Assembly, however, refusing to provide salaries for them, these were necessarily paid by the English Government. The Vote would diminish as the number of remaining magistrates grew smaller. He knew that great complaints had been made—he did not say with what foundation—as to the administration of justice in Jamaica; but he had never heard any complaint against the administration of justice by the stipendiary magistrates.
 MR. HADFIELD  asked for some explanation on the Vote.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that a Committee who inquired into the question last Session were unanimously of opinion that, though it was not desirable to increase our establishment in Western Africa, it was necessary to maintain them.
 MR. HADFIELD  observed, that the constant demands under this head called for some explanation.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that certain charges which formerly had been paid by the East India Company were now paid out of the Imperial Exchequer.
 GENERAL. DUNNE  asked how it was that this payment still continued?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the money was paid in pursuance of an arrangement come to ten years ago, when the Orange River Territory was given up. Certain pensions were then given the recipients of which were gradually diminishing.
 MR. CANDLISH  thought it would be a great advantage to us if we could get rid of other territories on similar terms.
 MR. BENTINCK  inquired in what manner the persons who received the pensions died off. Were there any reversionary interests? Did their children receive pensions?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, there was no reversionary interest in the pensions. He did not know exactly in what manner the pensioners died off, but he presumed that they departed in the same way as all human beings did.
 MR. BENTINCK  had no doubt they died in the ordinary way. It did not require one to be a Privy Councillor to tell that. What he wanted to know was, the way in which the payment of the money was to come to an end.
 GENERAL DUNNE  asked what were to be the future arrangements for Labuan? Was the garrison composed of British or Indian troops?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that expenses were incurred in consequence of the coal to be found in the vicinity of the station. The garrison was composed of Sepoys.
 MR. POWELL  asked whether any portion of the Vote was applied to the investigation of the nature of the coal-fields?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the coal-fields were already open, and coal had been brought to the surface, so that it was now too late for inquiry on that head. Petroleum also had been discovered there; hut it was too early yet to say anything with respect to that.
 MR. POWELL  inquired what was the extent of the coal-fields?
 MR. CARDWELL  said, the coal-fields were considerable. He could not state with statistical accuracy the extent of the coal-fields or the quality of the coal.
 MR. POWELL  said, he could not help thinking that the time might not be far distant when it would be no longer thought expedient to vote money for this purpose. He thought the time was not far distant when we should discover, to our loss, that we had not a surplus of population at home. If there was a field for the labour of emigrants in the colonies, the colonies ought to make the grant for emigration. There
 729
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that the expenditure in question was not incurred in removing persons to the colonies, but for the very necessary purpose of seeing that those who emigrated did so in a manner consistent with humanity, safety, and comfort. He was sure that a Vote for that purpose would not be objected to, and that it would be contrary to the wishes of the House to do anything which should defeat the object in view, and allow persons to go to sea in un sea worthy ships, or under circumstances that might involve suffering or danger.
 MR. HENLEY  said, that in the inquiry which was made into the loss of the  London, 730
 MR. CARDWELL  could assure the right hon. Gentleman that the matter did receive consideration at the time; and he would add that it should receive the further attention both of his Office and of the Emigration Commissioners.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, that having known for twenty-five years Captain Lean, the Emigration Surveyor of the port of London, he could testify that he was a conscientious and faithful officer, and that he troubled shipowners by being rather too particular. No man would look so much to the sails of a steamship as to those of a sailing vessel, and in the case of the  London London
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, that the Vote for the London office, £6,031, and that for all other ports, £4,337, suggested the fear that there was a disproportion in numbers between the controlling staff and the working staff, and that, considering the duties to be performed, the subordinate officers were too few and were underpaid.
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY , in reference to the surgeons on board emigrant ships, wished to direct attention to the case of the surgeon of the  East London, East London Elgin East London.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, this appeared
 731
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, the papers were in his possession, and he should be happy to place them in the right hon. Gentleman's hands.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the Vote was for the establishment by the late Dr. Baikie of the station at the confluence of the rivers Niger and Tchadda, which was very important for purposes of trade. For one year they had little or no communication with Dr. Baikie who had gone up the river, and the expenses attached to the Vote referred to payments extending over some time for salaries of staff and contingencies. Dr. Baikie came down last year, but, unfortunately, he died at Sierra Leone before reaching this country. Whether the establishment would be kept up would depend very much on whether the Liverpool merchants would continue to send vessels up the Niger for purposes of trade.
 MR. OLIPHANT  hoped the House would not be alarmed by the protests of the hon. Member for Sheffield (Mr. Hadfield) against establishments of this kind, which were in the highest degree desirable with a view to the maintenance of British interests. He trusted the trade up the Niger would be so great as to induce the Government to keep up the establishments which had been of such benefit to the country.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  wished to know why that House should pay £3,500 because the Liverpool merchants for their own purposes sent out an expedition?
 MR. LAYARD  said, the Vote was necessary in order to keep up the credit of this country in those regions. It was necessary that trade should be protected, and that could be done only by a British Consul, whom they had promised to keep
 732
 MR. WHITE  said, he did not think that so large a sum as that proposed was really required. Although there was a diminution of £8,000 on the Vote as compared with that of last year, nevertheless, the fact of the American Government having joined us now in our endeavour to put down the slave trade, he considered that there ought to be a much larger reduction in the Vote,
 MR. CHILDERS  said, there had not as yet been time to appreciate the advantage of the co-operation of the American Government, but next year he anticipated there would be a considerable diminution in the Vote; but it was generally a year, and sometimes two, before the accounts were made up.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  reminded the Committee that the Spanish Government were also co-operating with us in the attempt to suppress the slave trade, inasmuch as they had sent  bonâ fide
 MR. LAYARD  said, he was happy to announce the gratifying fact that during the last year there had been only one cargo of slaves shipped from the Westerns Coast of Africa, as far as he could learn. The Foreign Office had information of a cargo recently landed at Cuba, but it was immediately seized by the Spanish authorities. They had not ascertained whence it had come. Nothing could exceed the energetic and able manner in which General Dulce carried out the instructions which he received from his Government for the suppression of the slave trade. He believed it was entirely owing to these instructions and to the resolute conduct of the late Captain General of Cuba—for he regretted to say that his term of office had expired
 733
 MR. MONK  asked whether the proceeds of the slave captures covered the amount of the bounties?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that they did not.
 MR. BENTINCK  inquired by whom the trade in slaves was carried on on the East Coast of Africa?
 MR. LAYARD  said, the trade there was carried on in two ways. In the northern part of the East Coast of Africa it was carried on by the Arab tribes in the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf; on the southern side by the tribes under the protection of Portugal chiefly. The Portuguese Government, however, were exerting themselves to put a stop to this trade. We had cruisers on the East Coast as well as the West Coast of Africa.
 MR. WHITE  said, that the first item was for a Consul at Massowah, in Abyssinia; and after the painful experience we had had of the results of involving ourselves in Abyssinian politics, he thought the Government would do well to extinguish this consulate.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that notwithstanding the entry in the Estimates, Massowah was not in Abyssinia, though our Consul there had jurisdiction in that kingdom, but in the Turkish dominions. The imprisonment of the European captives in that country had had nothing whatever to do with our Consular establishment at Massowah.
 MR, DARBY GRIFFITH  observed,
 734
 MR. LAYARD  said, that there was a change in the administration of the Turkish Provinces. The Turkish Government had established three great jurisdictions, and a full Consul would be placed at Rustchuck, which would be the seat of the Governor. The allowances for Consuls at Varna and other places would be at the same time reduced, and a saving would be effected.
 GENERAL DUNNE  asked, upon what ground the civil salaries had been augmented, whilst the military salaries had been diminished. He did not complain of the increase in the former, but he thought it was disgraceful that our soldiers in Hong Kong were treated in such a niggardly spirit. He attributed the frightful malady amongst them at Hong Kong lately to this system which had been adopted towards them.
 MR. READ  complained of the meagre information supplied them in relation to such large sums as those which comprised the Vote,
 MR. WHITE  was of opinion that considerable reductions might be made in the Vote.
 MR. LAYARD  accounted for the augmentation in the Vote for civil salaries by the circumstance of certain legal changes having recently taken place in the places in question, which necessitated this augmentation. An officer had been sent out to China and Japan to ascertain what accommodation in the shape of buildings, &c, would be necessary for our Consuls and other officers in those countries. No satisfactory estimate could be formed at home of the value of the buildings required for our representatives in China and Japan.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, the first item of this Vote would appear to carry on its face a reduction; but from the manner in which the information was given in the Votes it was impossible to say 'whether it was a reduction or not.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he imagined it had been reduced by £2,000 last year; the sum of £8,000 was considered excessive. It was now reduced to £6,000.
 MR. CANDLISH  asked for an explanation of the £1,000 in the Miscellaneous Charges for the French Embassy.
 MR. LAYARD  said, he could not give a correct explanation of it. The hon. Member must see that many heavy charges were likely to be incurred by the Paris Embassy.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  complained of the unsatisfactory manner in which the diplomatic expenses were brought before the Committee. Part was charged to one fund and part to another. They had now a piebald account, which did not show what the diplomatic charges had been. They ought to be paid out of one fund instead of as at present out of two funds.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the extra sum for the attaches was paid under Vote 22, in accordance with the recommendation of a Committee appointed to inquire into the diplomatic service.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  wished to bring under the notice of the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs the case of a British subject who was in some danger on a charge of deserting from the Swiss Army. The man claimed to be a British subject; but the Swiss Government claimed him as one of their subjects, it being alleged that he was a citizen of Geneva, and it would be as well if our Minister at Berne could make some inquiries into the matter with a view to his being absolved from the charge that had been made against him.
 MR. LAYARD  said, the case referred to was a very hard one, and it had occupied the attention of the Foreign Office. His right hon. Friend brought the subject under his consideration some time ago, and he had lost no time in making full inquiry into it. He only received yesterday a Report from the Law Officers of the Crown, and from it he feared the man had no case. It was a very difficult point of law, and he was afraid it would turn out that this person was not a British subject. His father was a British subject, but his grandfather was not, and the nationality of the grandfather decided the nationality of the grandson, and strictly speaking, therefore, he was not a British subject. He
 736
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, this person was born in London, and he could not see how the grandfather's accepting the citizenship of Geneva, when his son was thirty-three years of age, could deprive the grandson of his nationality—that of a British subject.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  complained that the Votes in Class V. had been taken rather unexpectedly; and as he knew that an hon. Member, who was then absent, wished to make some observation on one of the Votes, he moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he wished to receive some explanation of the item set down for the conveyance of distinguished foreigners from Dover to Calais.
 MR. LAYARD  replied that that item was not included in the Vote under discussion.
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  took occasion to ask for an explanation of the sum of £21 17 s. d.,
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that the charge was one which was customary when a Bishop was obliged, as in the present instance, to go from one part of his diocese to another.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the item was one in the account for last year, and that its omission would not in reality effect a reduction of the Vote for the present year.
 MR. REMINGTON MILLS  was ready, under those circumstances, to withdraw his Motion. ["No, no!"]
 MR. HENLEY  should like to know who those distinguished foreigners were to whom he had just referred.
 THE CHAIRMAN  said, the discussion must be confined to the matter immediately before the Committee, which was the striking out of the item of £21 17 s. d.
 MR. HENLEY  renewed his inquiry as to who the distinguished persons were who were conveyed between Dover and Calais. He should like to know whether they were blacks or whites, and what objection there was to stating their names?
 MR. LAYARD  replied that he could not go into the details of the information which the right hon. Gentleman required. It was usual, when the guests of Her Majesty crossed the Channel between Dover and Calais, to convey them at the public expense. Their names were not given, because they were conveyed in special packets. Those whose names were given had been conveyed and entertained on board Her Majesty's vessels,
 MR. HENLEY  was quite aware that was so, but the list in the present instance appeared to be a very long one,
 MR. GUILDERS  said, the charge for each of those special passages was £10, and there had been four of them.
 MR. OLIPHANT  having observed that a sum of £2,000 was asked for to defray the expenses of Mr. Palgrave, who went out to release Consul Cameron from his captivity in Abyssinia, he should like to know when Mr. Palgrave was appointed to that mission? How long he was employed on it, and generally, what were the results of his efforts in the matter?
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  should like to hear on what principle the various items in the Vote were charged. He found that, while the round sums of £2,000 and £1,500 were set opposite the names of Mr. Palgrave and Mr. Hutt, shillings and pence were very carefully given in other instances.
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that when the gross sums were put down as in the cases which the hon. Gentleman mentioned, it was because the money had been paid on account. With respect to Mr. Palgrave, as last year there was a strong feeling that sufficient was not being done—though he did not think so—to obtain the release of Consul Cameron and the other captives in Abyssinia, Earl Russell considered it to be his duty to take further steps to obtain their release, and he instructed Mr. Palgrave to proceed to Egypt, and from thence to Abyssinia in the event of Mr. Rassam's mission having failed. When Mr. Palgrave arrived in Cairo, Mr. Rassam had received the invitation from King Theodore, and Mr. Palgrave was ordered to remain at Cairo until the result of Mr. Rassam's visit to Gondar was known. When information had been received that it had been successful, Mr. Palgrave was directed to return to this country.
 MR. HENLEY  said, he did not think the explanation with regard to the conveyance of distinguished persons very satisfactory. The Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs had said that the reason the names were not given was, because the distinguished persons were conveyed in special packets; but the names of the Duke of Cambridge and the Princess Mary, conveyed by special packets, were given, and he wished to know, therefore, why the names of the other distinguished persons were not given?
 MR. LAYARD  replied, that it was never the habit to specify by name distinguished foreign visitors to Her Majesty conveyed by special packets between Dover and Calais.
 MR. OLIPHANT  said, that the release of the Abyssinian captives was not due to the exertions of Mr. Palgrave, and he thought £2,000 a large sum to give him.
 MR. CHILDERS  explained, that the sum of £2,000 was advanced when Mr. Palgrave was originally sent to Abyssinia, for the purpose of meeting the expenses of the mission. If the expenses did not amount to £2,000, the balance would be returned.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  observed, that the expense of the mission for investing the King of Portugal with the Order of the Garter was put down at £659, and the expenses of the mission for investing the King of Denmark with the same Order was stated to be £915. He wished to
 739
 MR. LAYARD  said, that since the system of unpaid attaches had been done away with in consequence of the Report of a Committee, and the junior members of missions had been paid, the class of attaches had signally improved during the last few years. The experiment had fully succeeded, and a highly competent body of men was now attached to the missions abroad.
 MR. BENTINCK  asked, what course would be taken if the House got into Committee of Supply to-morrow? Would the Education Vote be taken?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the intention tomorrow was to take one Vote in the Army Estimates—that for Fortifications. After that they would take the remaining votes in Classes VI. and VII., but not the Education Vote. At eleven o'clock to-morrow night, he should move that the Chairman report Progress, and his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer would then take the second reading of the Customs Bill.
 MR. ESMONDE , as a proprietor of some town property in Ireland, believed that the Bill would be found beneficial in its operation.
 MR. COWPER  said, the architects had been requested to send in their designs in October, and at that time the judges would have to make their award. As the time was so distant, however, they had not been nominated. The Council of the Royal Academy had been told that they must leave the present building, and they had agreed to do so. Correspondence upon the subject was in the printer's hands, and would shortly be presented to the House. The designs would be ready in November, and if an autumn sitting were to be adopted hon. Members would then have an opportunity of seeing them.
 MR. COWPER  said, there was no truth in the report as to the directions for space for the Royal Academy at Burlington House. He had, however, been able to
 742
 LORD JOHN BROWNE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he is able to state the estimated cost of the revaluation of Rateable Property in Ireland, which it is proposed by the Rateable Property Bill to carry out every fourteen years; whether the expense of those repeated valuations are to be charged on the local rates, and whether they are to be compulsory; whether he has any objection to a Return stating the total actual cost of the last general valuation of Ireland, and of its estimated cost at the
 670
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the following statement, which appeared in  The Times "The Secretary for War recently established a branch of his department to codify and revise warrants and regulations issued from the War Office; be has appointed Mr. J. Norman Lockyer to the charge of this branch;"
 MR. AYRTON  said, that having taken part in the preparation of the Resolutions of the Committee upon which the Bill was founded, and having examined the measure under discussion, for the purpose of ascertaining whether his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had done justice to their recommendations, he felt bound to say that he had formed a very different estimate of it from that which his hon. Friend (Mr. Moffatt) had expressed, So far from its being a feeble effort to give effect to those Resolutions, it was to his mind a very strong and very satisfactory effort. He should be sorry if it went forth to the public that the hon. and learned Gentleman the Attorney General had in any degree failed to give effect to the general spirit and scope of the Resolutions at which the Committee had arrived. These Resolutions were over thirty in number, and they only embodied certain general principles. To the first Resolution with reference to the administration of the estate of bankrupts, his hon. and learned Friend had given full effect. The Bill carried out all that was suggested by the Committee in that respect—it entirely withdrew the bankrupt's estates from legal supervision and control, and placed them at the disposition of the creditors, to whom they belonged, and by so doing relieved our Bankruptcy Law from the scandal of making the bankrupt's estates a godsend to the
 702 703
 MR. SAMUELSON  also objected to the provision requiring the bankrupt to pay 6 s. d. 707
 MR. FRESHFIELD  said, there could be no doubt that the present Bankruptcy Law was entirely inefficient. Arrangements were made in regard to all the larger insolvencies, which entirely removed them from the pale of the Court of Bankruptcy—they were in fact administered by private agency, and deprived of the protection of any adequate tribunal. The
 704 Will. 705
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE , in reply, said, the Government had adopted the first recommendation, that the advance should not be limited to the sum of £8,000, subject to the discretion of the Lords of the Treasury. As to the second, his hon. Friend the Secretary to the Treasury had introduced a clause giving the Treasury power to extend the repayment of loans to periods of thirty-five years in cases where the benefit the proprietor obtained was less than the percentage now charged on loans for twenty-two years; and with reference to the last part of the question, the hon. Baronet was, no doubt, aware that under the new Act loans would be granted for the erection of farmhouses as well as farm buildings, the present condition being that the value of the farmhouse built in conjunction with farm buildings should be one-third the amount of the loan made for such buildings.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, it was quite correct that the inspectors had made such representations to
 672
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that the estimated cost of the revaluation was £46,000. It was intended to take place once every fourteen years, and the expense would be equally divided between the local rates and the Treasury. He could not undertake to give the estimated cost of the last valuation, but he had no objection to giving a Return of the actual cost and also of the number of valuations made during the last thirty years. He was also willing to postpone the Committee on the Bill until the Return was produced.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, the Government had been distinctly advised by the Law Officers that no such claim could be made.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  believed that the Bill would be exceedingly beneficial to Ireland, where the dwellings of the labouring classes were open to greater improvement than they were even in England.
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, If it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to allow the sale of
 673
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he thought it would have a good effect in Ireland if the hon. Gentleman would state the object of the Bill, as to which there appeared to be some misapprehension.
 GENERAL DUNNE  thought that the Bill was a monstrous one. It would, he believed, be attended with mischief to allow the corporations in Ireland to enter into speculations in the manner proposed.
 MR. BENTINCK  inquired whether the First Commissioner of Works would state the names of the Committee who would decide what architect's design should be chosen, and whether the plans would be laid upon the table of the House?
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the next Vote was of equal importance.
 MR. BENTINCK  expressed a hope that the Government would not proceed with the Estimates in the then state of the Committee. He had been requested by the First Commissioner of Works, at about seven o'clock, not to bring forward the Motion he had upon the paper, because it was impossible for the Government to go into Committee of Supply. Other hon. Members were, he believed, under a similar impression; and, in addition to that, the obvious importance of the subject made the introduction of it to such a Committee little
 722
 MR. BENTINCK  said, the Motion he had upon the paper dealt with Science and Art, and it was necessary, in his opinion, that that Motion be proceeded with before the Vote was considered. He, therefore, moved that the Chairman report Progress.
 MR. HADFIELD  said, the Votes in Class VI, for religious purposes in Ireland, ought not to come on in the present state of the House.
 MR. HADFIELD  supported the appeal. They had not a House present, yet they were voting away millions of money.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  thought as the building would be proceeded with next year it was high time the council of the Royal Academy had some notice given them; and he also thought the House should be informed as to what the Royal Academy was likely to do.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, with reference to a Lottery publicly advertised to be drawn for on Saturday the 12th instant at Edinburgh, for the benefit of St. Vincent Roman Catholic School, to ask the Lord Advocate, Whether his attention has been drawn thereto, as being a violation of the Law respecting Lotteries; and what, if any, steps have been or will be taken by him to give effect to the Law in that behalf?
 MR. BARNETT  quite agreed with the hon. Member for Southampton (Mr. Moffatt) that it would be wise to have this Bill referred to a Select Committee. Bills of this kind, which it was desirable to make acceptable to the commercial classes, should be watched clause by clause—a thing which it would be difficult to do if the discussion was carried on upon the floor of the House. He took it for granted that the wishes of the commercial community were in favour of a measure of this kind. He did not profess to be well versed in the Scotch law; but he had seen the rapid way in which bankrupt estates under that law were wound up in comparison with our tedious process. Nobody who had any acquaintance with the commercial body would gainsay him when he stated that the present Act was most unsatisfactory, and that persons were most unwilling to have recourse to it, owing to the great uncertainty and expense of the process. The subject of penal censorship attached to our Bankruptcy Acts was a difficult one, but he was disposed to assent to the view taken by the hon. and learned Attorney General. The fact was that circumstances very often occurred which made it desirable that some sort of penal censorship should exist. In
 701
 MR. CHILDERS  asserted that when asked by several hon. Members what course the Government would pursue, he had most distinctly stated that at about nine o'clock the Government would take Supply. Still, if it were the wish of hon. Gentlemen he would consent to postpone Class IV.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he believed every Member who complained of that Vote was present when he stated that he would take it to-night.
 MR. CHILDERS  hoped the Motion would not be pressed, and offered to go on with Class V.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that these payments were charges on the Exchequer, though the latter might be indirectly recouped from other funds.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, the Committee on Irish Taxation reported that some doubt existed whether a charge of £5,000 on the Consolidated Fund for the purpose of
 740
 MR. CHILDERS  stated that its objects were similar to those sought to be effected by a measure of the same character already passed referring to England. In the present Bill, however, were introduced such modifications as were suitable to the country.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, he hoped his hon. Friend (Mr. Smollett), who had so
 717 718 "Under the ryotwar system every registered holder of land is recognized as its proprietor, and pays direct to Government, He is at liberty to sublet his property, or to transfer it by gift, sale, or mortgage. He cannot be ejected by Government so long as he pays the fixed assessment, and has the option annually of increasing or diminishing his holding, or of entirely abandoning it. In unfavourable seasons remissions of assessment are granted for entire or partial loss of produce. The assessment is fixed in money, and does not vary from year to year, except in those cases where water is drawn from a Government source of irrigation to convert dry land into wet, or one into two-crop land, when an extra rent is paid to Government for the water so appropriated; nor is any addition made to the assessment for improvements effected at the ryot's own expense. The ryot, under this system, is virtually a proprietor on a simple and perfect title, and has all the benefits of a perpetual lease without its responsibilities." "There can be no doubt that, until European energy and enterprise are brought into contact with the Natives of this country, the progress of improvement will be slow and unsatisfactory. All, however, who know India are aware that European agency cannot successfully be employed in the actual cultivation of the soil. A quarter of a century has produced very little change in the circumstances which led Sir J. R. Carnac to say, 'Cotton culture holds out no inducement for any private person who knows what he is about to engage his capital in any speculation on a large scale.' The whole of the cotton experimental establishments abundantly tested and proved that Europeans cultivating the soil could never compete in economy or compensating results with the husbandry of the ryots. Generally speaking, the whole of the work of his farm is performed by the ryot and his family, and their labour is given with all the goodwill of self-interest and all the constancy of personal concern. It is as impossible to compete with such efforts by hired labour, as
 719 720
 MR. GEORGE  said, he would not oppose the second reading of the Bill, though he deprecated the way in which Irish business was treated in the House, Bills in which Irish Members were interested being brought on for discussion late at night, and being oftentimes read a second time before Members concerned in such matters had had an opportunity of ascertaining their principles.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said he would withdraw his Motion.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he rose to call the attention of the House to the present condition of Land Tenure in the Presidencies of Madras and Bombay in reference to the supply of raw cotton, and to move a Resolution. He said, that a short time since a meeting had been held at Manchester, composed chiefly of commercial men, but attended also by a larger number of Members of Parliament than usually attended debates on Indian subjects in that House, and by many persons who had spent a considerable portion of their lives in India. No resolutions were passed by that miscellaneous assemblage, but the position of our Indian Empire was discussed in a debate which lasted two days, and in which the expediency of endeavouring to enlist the sympathy of the new Parliament upon subjects connected with India was strongly enforced, He (Mr. Smollett) did not attend that meeting; but, not having obtained his seat in that House until Easter, and having then looked through the Journal and Order Book he was, he confessed, somewhat surprised to find that though three months had elapsed since the new Parliament had met, not a single Motion having reference to India had been placed on the Notice Book. The truth he believed to be that gentlemen connected with trade and commerce had for the most part little or no knowledge of India or its requirements, while those gentlemen connected with that country who were present at the meeting at Manchester went down there he believed rather with a view to share in the splendid hospitalities of that city, to revel in venison and turtle, and claret, than for any more serious object. It was under these circumstances that he had given notice of the Motion to which he was about to invite the attention of the House; and he was glad to have an opportunity of doing so, because he was desirous, among other things, of knowing what was to be expected from the present occupants of office in the Indian Department. He felt perfectly satisfied that his hon. Friend the Member for Halifax (Mr. Stansfeld) did not wish to hide his light under a bushel; but he might nevertheless, he thought, safely prophesy that the House would very seldom hear the silvery tones of his voice while he continued to fill the office to which he had recently been relegated. So far, indeed, as discussions on Indian subjects were con-
 710 711 712 713 714 715 716 personnel
 MR. CRAWFORD  seconded the Motion.
 MR. CRAWFORD  thought the observations made by his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets (Mr. Ayrton) were really conclusive on that subject, and that the House was in a condition to deal satisfactorily with the measure. The object of the hon. Gentleman who spoke last (Mr. Freshfield) seemed to be to re-open the whole question in a Committee upstairs. The Bill appeared to carry out the principal recommendations of the Select Committee of last year, and nothing but delay would ensue if it were now sent to a Committee upstairs. He believed the general feeling of the mercantile community was that the Bill should be proceeded with as soon as possible, and that it should be passed, subject to such modifications as might suggest themselves to the House when they got into Committee.
 MR. LOWE  thought the House had more than ordinary security for dealing with the Bill as a well-considerd measure. The subject was one which had been fully investigated by a Committee upstairs composed of some of the ablest Members of the House, among whom was the Attorney General. The Government had reviewed the decision of that Committee, and had, after mature consideration, adopted substantially the whole of their Report. To send back the Bill, therefore, to a Committee upstairs, which would not be the same Committee—for he did not suppose anybody who had had experience of the labour of the previous inquiry would be willing to undertake it a second time—and which would, in all probability, be a less informed tribunal than its predecessor, appeared to him to be a course which it was not expedient to adopt. The principles on which the Bill was based were, no doubt, debateable and difficult enough, but there was no good reason why a decision should not be pronounced upon them by the House. As to the drawing of the measure, hon. Members could not, he thought, pursue a better course than to place confidence in the Attorney General, who was much more likely to prepare the technical parts of it well than any Committee, because he possessed an amount of technical knowledge to which a Committee could scarcely pretend, and
 708
 MR. GREGORY  did not think that the increase of the sums from £5,000 to £7,500 would cancel the arrears, which he calculated at £148,000. He would ask whether, if this claim were given up, part of the sum could be advanced by way of loan to the fishery societies for the purpose of enabling them to lend out money for the construction of fishing vessels?
 MR. LEATHAM  said, that the Chambers of Commerce generally had expressed themselves in favour of the Bill, except as to a few points relating for the most part to the discharge of bankrupts, and the winding up of the estates of deceased insolvents. Those, however, were matters which could be considered and adjusted in Committee of the Whole House.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  thanked the Government, as a mercantile man, for bringing in this Bill, which he thought would effect an enormous improvement on the present system. Men seemed to have an inveterate tendency to get into debt, and the existing law seemed to facilitate the operation of that tendency as much as
 706
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Government intend to adopt the recommendation in the Report of the Committee on Irish Taxation (1865), to the effect that
 "The advances for Land Improvement, &c, should not be limited to the sum of £8,000 upon any one estate; that the repayment of Loans should be extended over a longer period than twenty-two years; and that it should not be compulsory, when a loan is granted for a Farm Building, upon the proprietor to provide a house at a cost of £200?"
 MR. GOLDNEY  asked if this was in reality a payment out of the Consolidated Fund, and if it was, whether it was not repaid out of the Bankruptcy funds?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that as there were still three weeks to elapse before the expiration of the last Order, the Privy Council had not yet taken into consideration the question whether or not it would be necessary to make any alterations in the existing regulations. It was, however, certain that the unrestricted sale of cattle in open markets and fairs would not be permitted just at present. The nature of the restrictions to be enforced would be a matter for future consideration.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that Her Majesty's Government had anticipated the suggestion of the right hon. Baronet and had even previously to the notice of the hon. Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian) of his intention to move for a Commission on the subject, addressed a letter to Sir Roderick Murchison, who was at the head of the Geological Survey, with the view of ascertaining from him whether by means of that Department certain inquiries into the extent of our coal-fields could be conducted, and what would be the probable expense of such a proceeding. The answer to that letter led the Government to hope that full information on this subject would shortly be obtained.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it would not be desirable to instruct the Director General of the Institution charged with conducting the Geological Survey of Great Britain and Ireland, by which mineral statistics are annually collected and published, to collect evidence bearing on the carboniferous system of the United Kingdom, the extent of the coal-fields, the thickness and quality, produce, and consumption of all bed3 of coal, and to Report thereon; and, if so, whether the Government would issue the necessary instructions accordingly?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Inspectors General of Prisons have made any representation to the Irish Government with a view to the consolidation and Amendment of the Laws relating to county prisons in Ireland; and, if so, whether the Government proposes to legislate on the subject? He also wished to know when the annual Report of the Inspectors General of prisons will be laid upon the table? He strongly objected to the practice of postponing the production of these Reports till the end of the Session.
 MR. BAZLEY  said, that probably the provisions in the Bill for the conduct of the Court of Bankruptcy might be more extensive than judicious, but he saw nothing in the Bill which might not be corrected in Committee of the Whole House without being sent upstairs. The hon. Member for Southampton (Mr. Moffatt), in reference to the provision that a bankrupt should be compelled to pay 6 s. d. bonâ fides s. d.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  said, he must beg to explain that the delay had chiefly arisen from its being intended, until recently, to institute the proceedings in the Court of Exchequer, but the regulations of that Court having been altered with regard to matters of that kind under a recent Act, it had been thought, on further consideration, that there was no good reason why the proceedings should not be taken in the Court of Chancery, which had a better machinery for taking accounts. The information, accordingly, either had been already laid, or would be laid within a day or two.
 THE O'DONOGHUE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the recommendations of the late Militia War Office Commission have not been carried out; and whether it is the intention of the Government to carry them out?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the greater part of the recommendations of the Commission referred to by the hon. Gentleman had been carried out, and he did not know to which of them not carried out the hon. Gentleman referred.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : Of course he would have every opportunity of doing so.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the 2nd Battalion of the 20th Regiment had received orders to proceed from Japan to Hong Kong, to relieve the regiment at present stationed there; but it would not be necessary that they should occupy the quarters vacated by the 11th Regiment, which had proceeded to the Cape. In March last orders were sent by telegraph to Ceylon to send four companies of Native Troops to Hong Kong as a temporary measure.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that orders were sent that the duties at Hong Kong should be diminished by the employment of native police or watchmen, and that under no circumstances were the troops to be kept too long on duty. With the barrack accommodation, and with the authority given to General Guy to hire proper quarters, there was every reason to believe that ample provision had been made.
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the clause applied only to the levying fees from persons applying for licences or certificates, or making declarations; but did not preclude the local authority from
 772
 COLONEL SYKES  rose to call the attention of the House to the official notification and address of Consul Meadows at Newchang to the foreign community, dated the 4th of December, 1865, respecting the danger to life and property from the proximity of the rebels; also to the official notification and address of Consul Medhurst, of Hankow, to the foreign community, dated 21st of January, 1866, to devise measures against an expected attack from a body of revolted Imperial troops, and the advance of the Nienfee rebels. He had on the 12th of April called the attention of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs to the official circular of Consul Meadows at New-chang, on which occasion his hon. Friend told him Consul Meadows had been very
 815 "The undersigned begs to inform the foreign community of this port, that the commandant of the district called upon him yesterday and made a communication to the following effect: 'A body of upwards of 1,000 robbers or rebels has for some months past infested the north-eastern portion of this province, and has there inflicted a series of severe defeats on the Imperial forces sent out against them. Recently they have taken the city of Hong Kong (the first capital of the Tartars in China), on which occasion the chief civilian and second military officers of the city, with a number of the soldiers were slain. Afterwards a detached body, about 300 strong, entered the city of Fungkwang, about 150 miles to the east of this port, and this body has since advanced in this direction, being six days ago at a place about 100 miles off.'" entrepÔt 816 "With respect to the attack on Hankow, he had to state that he had no reason to believe that that city had been threatened by a large rebel force. It seemed that a considerable number of peasantry took refuge there and in the neighbourhood, that the Consul went out to see what was the matter, but that, instead of 80,000 rebels, he found eight men on horseback, armed with spears and bags, that shots were fired at them, and that they thereupon ran away, leaving behind them the bags, which were found to contain eight women." Hankow Times, 817
 COLONEL LOYD LINDSAY  said, the remarks made by his hon. and gallant Friend were directed to the appointment of General flay on the Committee. He did not think they went beyond it. But he should like to say a few words with regard to General Hay, who had been the subject of this conversation. General Hay had to a great extent brought about a very valuable reform in the service. When he (Colonel Lindsay) first entered the army, there was utter ignorance as to all matters in reference to musketry instruction. He remembered when the Minié arm was first served out, that there was a discussion in his regiment as to whether the ball should be put down the barrel with the point or the base foremost. Such ignorance was almost equal to that of persons who were unaware whether the powder or the shot should be put in first. After the battle of Inkermann he was present when no fewer than ten bullets were extracted from one rifle, they having been put in by a soldier who fancied that "every bullet would find its billet." Since the Crimean War, however, General Hay had instructed the army in the system of musketry, and, in fact, by himself or emissaries had taught the whole of the army, the Militia, and the Volunteers to shoot. He believed that the navy and the cavalry also had had persona
 823 The Times
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON : I did not rise at an earlier period to answer the question of the hon. and gallant Member, because I thought it better that I should hear what hon. Members connected with the army had to say on the subject. But what I have heard has made me regret that I did not rise earlier to attempt to dispel some of the very considerable delusions that appear to exist as to what is going on at the Horse Guards. The hon. and gallant Member who introduced the subject is very much mistaken if he supposes that an affirmative answer to his first three questions will give a correct idea of the state of the case. What has happened is this: After the discussion that took place in the House on this subject I thought it necessary to call the attention of the Commander-in-Chief to the complaints that appeared to be very general in the army as to the present system of musketry instruction, and His Royal Highness concurred with me in thinking that it was a very proper subject of inquiry. The Commander-in-Chief directed that inquiry should first be made of general officers commanding in the several districts, who should forward their opinion to the Horse Guards, and who should also call on officers commanding regiments to send up their opinion on the subject. When these reports had all been received, including a great many also from musketry instructors, the Commander-in-Chief did what he had a perfect right to do, without asking the concurrence of the Secretary of State, namely—he appointed a departmental committee to sit at the Horse Guards to look over these reports, to sift them; and to report to him the nature of the objections entertained against the existing system, and what modifications, if any, they thought ought to be introduced into it. The House will see this is anything but a committee of inquiry into the system of musketry instruction. It is not a committee on which General Hay is sitting as a judge. It is appointed only to report the opinions of the officers who were called on to give their
 825 The Times The Times. 826
 COLONEL GREVILLE  agreed in the remark that the present was only a part of a much greater question; and though he was quite prepared to vote against the Regium Donum, he would not select for opposition a small Vote to a small body while another body not more numerous,
 830
 MR. CORRY  said, that the province of Ulster was at present in a most prosperous condition; and he believed that that prosperity was in no small degree owing to the teaching and the example of the ministers among whom the grant in question was
 833
 COLONEL SYKES  asked what became of the fees taken in the Patent Office. The Vote represented outgoings from the Consolidated Fund, but he presumed there were some fees which were received from patentees. He would like to know what was the amount of them, and how they were appropriated?
 COLONEL SYKES  remarked that Votes of this kind were mischievous in principle, and was curious to know in what way this encouragement of the cultivation of flax in Ireland was managed.
 MR. ESMONDE  asked, whether if an application were to be made from Leinster the benefit which was extended to Ulster, in respect to the cultivation of flax, would he conceded to the former province?
 MR. AKLAND  expressed a hope that the existing uncertainty as to what Member of the Government was really responsible for sealing with these agricultural questions would be removed, as it was most important that the farming interest should know and have confidence in the Minister to whom the conduct of such matters was intrusted. If the county Members would assist to dissipate some of the prejudices on this question they would benefit greatly not only producers but consumers, The transfer of the hon. Member, late Under Secretary for the Home Department, who was thoroughly conversant with
 838
 MR. HENLEY  thought the President of the Board of Trade was very fortunate in the mode by which he had endeavoured to deal with that long-vexed question. On the one hand, the right hon. Gentleman had disarmed jealousy, and, on the other hand, he had provided means. That matter came up for the first time some sixteen years ago, when Lord Halifax was Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he modestly proposed that the country people should pay for the returns themselves. That immediately set their backs up, and they said, "If you want it, you should pay for it." Various schemes were then proposed, and people were afraid of this thing and afraid of that; and if it were now to be attempted to obtain those returns by local authority, he was sure they would have people's backs up again, and would not get the statistics half so easily and correctly as they now did. At present it was understood that the information was to go to a central
 839
 MR. ESMONDE  asked why, when a Vote of £10,000 was proposed for the collection of these statistics in England, some proportionate grant was not made for the same purpose in Ireland. In Ireland these statistics were collected by the constabulary, a body whose proper functions were entirely of a different nature, and who, he would remind the Government, were very much underpaid; and therefore, when the pay of that force was under reconsideration, the fact that it had that extra duty thrown upon it ought certainly not to be left out of sight.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  hoped the clause would not be pressed. If adopted, it
 843
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would, before the Report was brought up, take into consideration the question as to whether Parliamentary interference was necessary.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE , in moving to add a new clause, explained that it had been introduced for the purpose of empowering Parochial Boards, as well as public asylums, to raise money for enlarging their wards for the reception of lunatics. It provided, however, that monies borrowed by Parochial Boards should be repaid in annual instalments of not less than one-thirtieth of the whole amount borrowed.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  replied that the expenses of the Lunacy Board in Scotland were rather heavy. He did not dispute that it would be desirable to assign a salary to the Chairman, but that was a matter which did not rest entirely with him.
 MR. O'NEILL  agreed with the hon. Member who had just sat down that the Regium Donum rested upon a different footing from that stated by the hon. Member for Sheffield, as, in fact, it rested almost on an equal footing with the Church Establishment in Ireland. In 1672 Charles II. resolved to make the Presbyterians some compensation for their loyalty, and the sum of £1,200 per annum was accordingly applied to their benefit. William III. confirmed that grant to them, and in 1830 the Government determined to enlarge the grant. The Presbyterian was one of the most loyal bodies in Ireland, and by their colonization of Ulster they had transformed one of the most turbulent provinces of that country into a peaceful, industrious, and enterprizing district. And when an attempt was made to violate the Act of Succession, the Presbyterians of Ireland took measures to secure the succession of the Electress Sophia of Hanover. The hon. Member for Sheffield said that the Presbyterians wished to sell their loyalty, but that was an accusation that need scarcely be replied to, as no one would give credit to it. For these reasons he thought the grant should be continued.
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, he was sorry to persevere against his hon. and learned Friend, but he was willing that the clause should be made wider in its application, if that were desired. His hon. and learned Friend was estopped from opposing the principle of superannuation, because he had proposed it with reference to another class of public officers, and, in fact, great public establishments, involving the employment of public officers, could not be properly conducted unless superannuations were granted. The asylums named as presenting difficulties were comparatively modern; but the clause as proposed would apply to old establishments, the directors of which had not that legal power of granting superannuations which existed in England. A clause in the English Act specifically provided that officers should have superannuations.
 MR. BOUVERIE  proposed a new clause to enable directors of Chartered Public Asylums to grant a superannuation allowance to their servants after a certain number of years service. He thought the principle so reasonable that no objection could be raised to it.
 LORD ELCHO  said, that his hon. Friend who has just addressed the House for the first time had implied that his hon. and gallant Friend opposite, and those who had made remarks upon the present system of musketry, entertained some kind of prejudice against General Hay. Now, General Hay was one of his own personal friends, and he must say that no man had done more towards bringing the army into a state of efficiency than General Hay himself. All that his hon. and gallant Friend had said was that the present system was carried to excess, and that that excess was really detrimental to the service, because it deterred men from entering the service, and also cost the country a needless sum of money. Indeed, his hon. Friend who had just sat down had admitted the existence of things which amounted to a condemnation of the system. In the first place, soldiers under it were unnecessarily tortured, and in the second the officers were unnecessarily bullied. Now, these two expressions were an ample justification of all that had been done and said on the subject by his hon. and gallant Friend opposite. General Hay had honoured him by taking notice in  The Times 821 The Times. "General Hay's letter induces mo to write you a few lines, to add my mite of testimony to the fact of the system of rifle instruction as at present carried on in the service being most irksome and irritating to all classes—from the commanding officer of a regiment downwards; and so much so to the private soldiers as to be without doubt one of the causes which militate against the re-engagement of our ten years' men. General Hay says:—'The whole musketry training of the soldier only employs him twelve days in the year.' Whereas paragraph 6, page 38, of the  Instruction of Musketry 822
 LORD ELCHO  begged to explain that the opinion he had quoted of a field officer of very considerable standing did not refer to new recruits, but to the ten years' men, and they disliked the system so much that they would not re-enlist.
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  wanted to know what became of the Corn Returns when they were made?
 MR. WALDEGRAVE-LESLIE  said, that this matter might easily have been settled out of doors but for the unwillingness which the Post Office authorities displayed to accede to the reasonable request of the inhabitants of Fifeshire. At present letters arriving in Edinburgh at seven in the morning were detained until half past four in the afternoon, before they were sent on, and that letters posted in Fife and reaching Edinburgh the same evening were kept in the Post Office all night and not delivered until the following morning; and great inconvenience was caused to the inhabitants of the county in question, in consequence of a difference between the Post Office authorities and the Railway Company with regard to what was really a trifling sum. He denied the assertion made by the Post Office authorities that the correspondence of Fife was so very small. It happened that the population of the county was over 100,000, and the Fife mails were the largest out of Edinburgh, except those of Glasgow.
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  rose to ask the Government, Whether, having regard to the welfare and comfort of the labouring classes in agricultural districts, it is their intention to increase the number of Money Order Savings Banks, Annuity and Insurance Offices, now established in comparatively so small a proportion of the post towns of the United Kingdom? The noble Lord said, the value of those offices was fully admitted, and his object was to obtain an extension of the system, which had been found to work so well. According to the  Postal Guide 778
 MAJOR DICKSON  thought that when a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into any alleged abuse, it ought to be composed of men who, while possessing on the one hand a thorough practical knowledge of the subject, were, on the other of free and unbiassed minds; and General Hay being the originator of the school of musketry at Hythe, could hardly be considered to be a man of unbiassed mind in this matter. It would appear to an ordinary unofficial mind, that it would have been proper to call General Hay as a witness to be examined before the Commission, rather than appoint him a member of
 824
 MR. O'REILLY  observed, that the investigation of Messrs. Hardy and Brewer had not the slightest connection with the Brehon laws.
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  opposed the Bill, and should vote against the retention of the clause.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I stated, in the commencement of the evening, that representations had been made to me from quarters of the greatest influence and credit with respect to the extraordinary state of alarm and distress prevailing in the City to-day. I stated that those representations had come to me from gentlemen representing in particular the private banks of London, and I expected that I should shortly receive similar representations from those connected with the joint-stock banks. Those representations I have received accordingly, and they were pressed even more earnestly and urgently than I anticipated. I stated, also, at the time when I had the honour of addressing the House, that the effects of the day's proceedings in the City through the Bank of England had not been fully given to us. Since that time we have become acquainted with those results, and we find that the Bank, moved by a just desire to sustain the commerce of the country, and to avert disaster, has extended its loans and discounts to-day to a sum of something more than £4,000,000. The effect of that large accommodation was to reduce the reserves of the Bank to a sum not very far short of £3,000,000 of money. Under these circumstances, as far as the facts are known, and—there being no reason to believe that any great change has occurred in the state of things, the estimate is sufficiently accurate for all practical purposes—we find the Bank reserves reduced in a single day from a sum approaching £6,000,000 to a little exceeding £3,000,000. The Government have felt that this is a state of things which, combined with the uneasiness prevailing in the mind of the public in regard to monetary matters, calls for intervention on their part. We have taken the opportunity during the evening of considering the state of the facts, and the result has been that we have determined to address a letter to the Governor and Deputy Governor of the Bank, substantially the same as was addressed to those high officers in 1847 and 1857. That is to say, if the Bank, proceeding upon its usual prudent rules of administration, shall find occasion, in order to meet the wants of legitimate commerce, to make such ad-
 842
 MR. DISRAELI : I take this opportunity of inquiring of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether there is any truth in the prevalent rumour that Her Majesty's Government have authorized any relaxation of the provisions of the Bank Charter regulating the issue of notes?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In the first place, in reply to the question of the right hon. Gentleman opposite, I beg to state that there is no truth in the statement that Her Majesty's Government have authorized any step to be taken at variance with the provisions of the Act of 1844. In point of fact, they have not arrived at any decision upon the subject of the state of things which prevails in the City in immediate connection with the calamitous event announced yesterday. I may go further and say, that until two hours or two hours and a half ago no representation or formal report of any kind had reached me from the City upon the subject of the existing state of things; but for the last two hours and a half my time has been occupied in receiving information and statements, and, I may add, an important requisition from very influential persons connected with the City. I have seen many of the most influential and respected members of the body of the London bankers on the subject, and I have not yet had time to see, but I expect to see as soon as my engagements in this House will allow me to leave my place, a deputation regularly constituted from the joint-stock banks in London to the same effect. The purport of the statements made by them is that they conceive the state of panic and distress which prevails in the City to be without parallel in the recollection of the
 773 774
 MR. MONK  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Bristol, Whether he intends this Session to bring forward his annual Motion in favour of the Ballot?
 MR. MONK  asked how it happened that a Vote of £525 was taken for professional services rendered by Mr. A. J. Stephens in preparing rules and orders under the Ecclesiastical Courts and Registries Act (Ireland)?
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, this small grant was made for a very good purpose. It had been continued for three years, and the object of the grant was
 836
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Without feeling it my duty to enter into the details to which my hon. Friend has alluded, and without taking and notice of his concluding remarks as to what Her Majesty's Government may think it their duty to do or say on so grave a matter as this, I will at once give the answer which I have to make on the part of the Government to the question which my hon. Friend has put to me. As a general proposition, there can be no doubt that there is an advanced time of life beyond which it can be scarcely within the bounds of possibility that a Judge can continue to fill his exalted station with advantage to Her Majesty's subjects or with dignity to himself. And if it were thought right to lay down any rule upon the subject, and to draw any line of age beyond which a Judge should not be permitted to occupy a seat on the bench, I think we should all agree that the line would be drawn short of the age of ninety years. But with respect to the cases in which my hon. Friend asks me for my opinion, I have this to say:—Her Majesty's Government think that the only constitutional course for them to pursue, if any action should be taken on the matter, would be not the expression of a mere opinion, but the adoption of a graver and much more serious course—namely, that of moving an Address from both Houses of Parliament to the Crown; a duty, or a possible duty, which would not differ in kind, though it would differ in degree, from the duty of any private Member of this House. If facts should be brought to the knowledge of Her Majesty's
 783
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  complained of the item of £1,500 for robes, collars, and badges for the Knights of the several Orders. He observed, too, an item of £347 for fees payable on Installation of His Royal Highness Prince Alfred as a Knight of the Thistle,
 MR. READ  asked for an explanation of the item of £954 for distressed Polish refugees. They appeared to be already provided for by a previous Vote of £2,296, which was stated in a foot note to be gradually diminishing.
 MR. READ  asked in how many towns the Corn Returns had been discontinued in the present year?
 MR. READ  urged upon the President of the Board of Trade the necessity of attempting to get these statistics before the harvest, if the attempt to get them was to he made at all; otherwise the matter had better be put off till next year.
 MR. READ  asked, whether it was intended to give returns of the acreage, corn, and agricultural statistics of the country generally, and, if so, when?
 MR. M'LAREN  cordially approved of the Motion of the hon. Member for Sheffield. He regarded this Vote as altogether wrong, contrary to every sound financial principle, and an unjust tax for the benefit of a small portion of the community laid on the whole people. He denied that it was beneficial, even to those parties themselves; he believed they were the greatest sufferers by it. He admitted all that was said of the excellent characters of those who got the money, of their respectability, and of their being entitled to receive a
 831
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that in Scotland the asylums were erected by voluntary contributions, and he thought the right principle was to allow each institution to do as it thought fit.
 MR. GREENE , as a brewer, said, it was necessary for the protection of the trade that this Bill should be passed. It was sometimes necessary to pass an Act of
 846
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  assured the House that nothing but a sense of duty would have induced him to say a word upon the subject under discussion. His right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland was placed in a painful position by having to answer a question addressed to him by the hon. Member for Kilkenny as to matters of fact; and he asked the House what opinion it would form of any Member who, on being asked a question as to certain matters which occurred in his presence, either refused to answer or gave a false answer to the question. All that his right hon. Friend did was to make a reply according to his personal knowledge to a question which, as his right hon. Friend
 804 Dublin Daily Express,
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  said, that if that was the object of the right hon. Gentleman he did not avow it. He appealed to the House as to whether its impression was not that the letter was read
 805
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. SULLIVAN)  said, that explanation would not do. He was surprised at the interference of his right hon. Friend in this debate, especially after the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Home Department had addressed the House. When he was reading that letter of the juror, in justice to the Attorney General he ought to have said, "This does not affect what the right hon. Gentleman has said." Why was the material fact that the juror did not hear the sentence pronounced kept hack? The other letter did not in the smallest degree impugn what his right hon. Friend had said, simply admitting that something strange took place, and observing on the want of light in the Court House. As to the competency or incompetency of the Lord Chief Justice, he would not, for obvious reasons, give any opinion. He believed, however, that the House would come to the conclusion that the Attorney General for Ireland had done his duty in answering the questions put to him, and that he had discharged that duty in accordance with truth and the facts of the case.
 MR. BERKELEY , in reply, said, he should deem it his duty to bring on the
 771
 GENERAL DUNNE  observed, that he did not think the Government had dealt with the Brehon laws in a satisfactory manner, and intimated his intention of bringing the whole subject of the Irish Records before the House on a future occasion.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, that this prompt supply of biscuit for the poor Circassians did honour to the country, and he, for one, thanked the Government for it. What was the meaning of the payment to Captain Succi of £387 for the "illegal detention of his ship at the Sulina mouth of the Danube in June, 1854?"
 MR. BENTINCK  having had some experience of the Record Office, testified to the ability of Messrs. Hardy and Brewer, and observed that these gentlemen went to Dublin during the vacation, and, instead of taking their leisure, spent their time in investigating the Irish Records for the benefit of the country.
 MR. BRYAN  said, he rose for the purpose of asking the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether his attention has been called to the constitution of the Irish Bench, Law and Equity; and whether (considering the advanced age of some of Her Majesty's Judges), in the opinion of the Irish Government, its present condition is satisfactory and conducive to the due administration of justice in Ireland. But before doing so he said it would be necessary to trouble the House with a very brief statement of facts. The magnitude of the evil and a sense of public duty obliged him most reluctantly to call the attention of the House to the present constitution of the Irish Bench. Personalities were always reprehensible, but in the present instance it would not be possible for him to convey the subject to the House without indulging in them to a certain extent. he could assure the House, however, that he would do so with as much delicacy as the disagreeable na-
 779 "He would not go through the Irish Bench, but he would merely allude to three of those venerable men who had arrived at the longest period of life and service. The first was Chief Justice Lefroy. He was born in 1774, and was therefore (ten years ago) 82 years of age. He was called to the bar in 1797, and his infirmities were naturally and necessarily great, and if the Returns which he moved for were granted, it would be found that he was constantly obliged to have a substitute to perform his duty, who had to be paid out of the Consolidated Fund." 780 "The sight of one so aged placed upon the bench for the administration of justice is indeed affecting; and, while we pity the aged chief, we condemn the unkindness which conceals from him the feelings of the bar, the suitors, and the public." "It is not enough that the Judge should be capable of concentrating his attention during one part of a case, and be capable of following the evidence and the arguments through the remainder; the whole mind and strength of the Judge in full and sustained vigour are due to the public service, and this the public service has long ceased to have from the Chief Justice Both civil and criminal cases are sent to the jury by him without reviewing the evidence, which he cannot remember, and of which he seldom takes a note." Irish Times Dublin Evening Post, 781 "The scandal of judicial incompetency resulting from declining mental and physical power through extreme old age" Irish Times 782
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that this yearly Vote had received continued opposition for
 827 828 829
 MR. CHILDERS  thought that what he was about to state might change the vote of the hon. Member for Edinburgh. That hon. Member said that he was willing to vote whatever was necessary to protect the life interests of the present clergymen; but the Amendment before the Committee would strike off all the stipends of the existing ministers, and therefore the hon. Member for Edinburgh ought to oppose the Amendment. With respect to the distribution of the gift, he wished to inform the Committee that Dr. Cooke, one of the distributors, had died lately, and his place had not yet been filled up; but he did not consider a salary of £300 a year too much for the person who had the care and distribution of £40,000 intrusted to him, and he thought it would be unwise to discontinue the allowance.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, hon. Members had doubtless Been the paper which he laid on the table of the House a few nights ago, on which occasion he stated what the Government had done with regard to the Records and other historical documents of the three Kingdoms, and at the same time offered suggestions as to what should be the future arrangements with respect to them. As, however, his hon. and gallant Friend proposed to raise the question on some future day in a general form he would not now further dwell on it.
 MR. CHILDERS  explained that they were made by Act of Parliament, and published in the  Gazette,
 MR. CHILDERS  could not say from memory but he believed in three or four.
 MR. CHILDERS  explained that the amount of the fees was published, and that he believed they amounted this year to £110,000.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that he had made no such allegation. All he did was to claim the vote of the Member for Edinburgh, who said he would oppose taking the income they now received from the existing ministers. This injustice the Amendment would do.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the grant had been made to those districts most requiring aid. The object of the hon. Member for the county of Waterford, however, would be met by leaving out the words "south and west," and then it would be open for the Treasury to receive applications from other parts of the country; but he did not undertake that any such applications would be complied with.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that there was no authority to charge the expense on Ecclesiastical Funds, and it could only be defrayed out of the present item.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, his remarks would be few, since the interest in the
 776 777
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the vessel was detained in 1854, on the eve of the Russian War. The claim was not made till 1858–9. It was referred to arbitration, and reduced from £2,400 to the amount now proposed to be voted.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that this item exhibited a considerable reduction compared with last year. It was thought only reasonable that these fees should be paid for the Knights. He could not give the details of the fees on the installation of Prince Alfred, but he would state to the Committee that this was a usual charge on the installation of foreign personages and of Members of the Royal Family.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that there was an increase of claims from distressed Polish refugees arising from the Polish troubles of the year before last. Lord Palmerston, a few months before his death, sanctioned
 840
 MR. CHILDERS  took the opportunity to correct an answer which had been given last evening, and to state that the proceeds of captured slave ships were paid to the captors and not into the Exchequer.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that there was a terrible famine among the Circassian exiles, and the Government sent a quantity of biscuit from Malta for their relief. It was thought better that the cash value of the biscuit should appear in the Estimates, in order that the House might know what had been done.
 MR. CHILDERS  said, it was merely a formal measure, having for its object the enactment of a clause which had been accidentally omitted from the Act regulating the office of the Solicitor to the Treasury. He gave notice of his intention, with the permission of the House, of passing the Bill through the remaining stages on Monday next.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he did not think that would be a valid contract.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, he thought the clause alluded to by his right hon. Friend was clear and free from ambiguity.
 770
 MR. STANSFELD , in reply, said, he informed the House the other night, in answer to the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Major Jervis), that he had every reason to expect that immediately after the Whitsuntide recess he should be prepared to make the annual statement on the Indian Army. As to whether that statement would have reference to all the claims and complaints made by officers of the Indian Army, he was afraid that that would be saying a good deal, for those claims and complaints were very numerous; but when he made the statement he hoped to be able to satisfy the House that such matters had had due consideration.
 MR. STANSFELD  said, in reply, that the Government liability under this Act was to guarantee 5 per cent on £1,000,000 of capital. Of that sum all but £44,296 had been paid up. The amount of interest
 767
 MR. STANSFELD : None; the works were not yet completed.
 MR. WHITESIDE : The hon. Gentleman who asked this question, and the hon. Member for Cork having pointedly appealed to me, I feel bound to state my view of the matter. I could not have thought it possible that any one could be found to repeat again the story with respect to the trial of Lieutenant Clutterbuck's murderer. It appears that the relatives of the unfortunate gentleman who were present at the trial have testified that justice was administered on that occasion with the strictest impartiality. I will read one of these testimonies—
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that after the opinions expressed by the hon. Member for Edinburgh (Mr. M'Laren), one might reasonably ask if there was anything with which a Scotchman was content. The hon. Member seemed to object to every-
 832
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, amid loud cries of "Order"—I read the letter of Mr. Boyle, and not the letter of the juror on this point.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I read that letter to explain what took place at the trial—not to contradict the statement of the Attorney General for Ireland.
 MR. WHITESIDE : I think I may be able to point out how the difficulty has arisen.
 MR. WHITESIDE : The hon. Member for Cork, as I took it, repeated certain stories current among professional persons, some retail talk, in fact; and I think the right hon. Baronet has fallen into the mistake of supposing that the hon. Member had mentioned those stories as if they were within his personal knowledge.
 MR. CANDLISH  wished to know, whether he was correct in understanding the Secretary to the Treasury to imply that as the existing recipients of the grant died out the grant itself would die out? If so, the estimate in the present year was inconsistent with such a declaration, as there was an increase in it for new congregations. If the Vote were taken distinctly on the ground that it was for the present recipients only, he should support it; but if others were to succeed, then he should oppose the grant.
 MR. BONHAM-CARTER  said, he rose to call the attention of the Vice President of the Committee of Council to the subject of the payment of Cattle Inspectors. The Cattle Diseases Act Amendment Bill of this Session, passed on the 23rd of last month, enacts by the ninth clause that no fee or other charge shall be demanded or paid for any certificate or licence under that Act, or any order or regulation there under. In many counties the local authority had before the passing of the Act authorized and promulgated schedules of fees payable by cattle owners to inspectors or other officials for certificates and licences. He wished to ask, first, Whether under the above clause such payments were forbidden and had become illegal? and next, whether the clause precluded the local authority from authorizing, under Section 8 of the Privy Council Order of the 24th of March, allowances payable from the county rate, calculated on items of work done by its officers, whether by granting certificates, or licences, or otherwise?
 MR. SPEAKER : The case must be decided in accordance with the rules of the House and of debate. The right hon. Baronet is in possession of the House. If he chooses to give way, he can do so; otherwise the hon. Member must reserve his explanation until the right hon. Baronet resumes his seat.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Baronet must be aware that to assert that an hon. Gentleman makes a statement which he knows to be unfounded is going beyond the Parliamentary limits of debate.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Baronet has transgressed the rules of debate, and he is called upon to explain or withdraw the statement.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Baronet has stated that the hon. Member has made a statement which he knew to be incorrect [An hon. MEMBER: "Unfounded"]; which he knew to be unfounded; so saying, he passed the authorized limits of debate.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Baronet should understand that the hon.
 802
 MR. SPEAKER  then said: The right hon. Baronet has now been called upon by the House to apologize after having made a statement which passes the proper limits of debate. The right hon. Baronet has heard what the statement is. The right hon. Baronet has said that the hon. Member for Cork has made a statement which he knew to be unfounded. That statement having been objected to and a point of order raised, I must, in the discharge of my duty, call upon the right hon. Baronet to make an apology, or retract the words which are objected to.
 MR. SPEAKER : The right hon. Gentleman may speak to the Question of Order.
 MR. SPEAKER : It is not according to the rules of this House to read a letter which makes comments on our debates. The hon. and gallant Gentleman has used a wise discretion in not doing so.
 MR. DODSON  called attention to the clauses of the Bill requiring every package or pocket of hops to be marked in a certain way with the names of the grower, and every particular respecting the place of their growth, their weight, &c, and said, that the Bill converted what was intended as a privilege to the trader into a burden. The business was now thrown
 845
 MR. FLOYER  wished to know whether, if it was intended to extend those inquiries into the quantity of land under cultivation and the different modes of cropping it, those inquiries would be conducted by the same agency as was now used to obtain similar information with regard to cattle, He believed it would tend to remove apprehension from the minds of the agriculturists if they were assured that there would be no change made either in the method or in the instrumentalities hitherto employed for that purpose.
 MR. GEORGE  said, he should feel unworthy of the profession to which he belonged, and of the honour of the personal and professional acquaintance of the two great men whose names had been introduced into that discussion, if he remained altogether silent when attacks were being made upon them. It was melancholy that the fame and character of two such men should be made the sport and plaything of individuals in that House, whether for party or other purposes. These charges had been brought forward on lax and miserable evidence—such, for instance, as the conversation of dinner tables, of clubs, of the highway, or the contents of newspaper paragraphs. But to his mind it was still more painful that the two Law Officers of the Crown, representing the honour and dignity of the profession, had felt it necessary to offer
 809 810
 MR. LOCKE  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the 20th Regiment (2nd Battalion) has been ordered, or whether it is the intention of the Government to order it, from Japan, where it is at present stationed, to Hong Kong, to occupy the quarters vacated by Her Majesty's 11th Regiment, in which great mortality had lately occurred, or whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to send Native Troops to that station?
 MR. LOCKE  said, the brewers felt that such an Act of Parliament was necessary to prevent fraud. Without it they were unable to discover the fraud until it was too late. To deal with hops as the trader pleased led to fraud, and the only way to prevent it was to compel the grower to mark them The Bill would be worthless without the clauses to which the hon. Gentleman the Member for West Sussex objected.
 MR. MAGUIRE : I must ask the right hon. Baronet, Sir, to retract that assertion.
 MR. MAGUIRE : I rise to explain.
 MR. MAGUIRE : I must explain. I rise to a point of order.
 MR. MAGUIRE : Sir, I desire to afford the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin an opportunity of replying in this case; therefore I rise to continue the discussion. However the Motion or question of my hon. Friend the Member for the county Kilkenny may have excited the surprise of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, in my opinion my hon. Friend has done a great public service in bringing the subject before the House of Commons. I can make every allowance for the reserve under which the Secretary for Ireland is bound to act in reference to a matter of this nature, and I know how difficult it is to bring the Government to the point of asking the interference of Parliament with regard to any one of the Judges of the highest tribunals of the land. But private Members are under no such reserve; and if no private Member could be found to speak the truth boldly on this or a similar question, injury to the public interest would be the necessary result. In the statement made by the hon. and learned Member for Belfast with respect to Chief Justice Lefroy, the hon. and learned Gentleman no doubt relied on what he believed to be the best information. On the general question, I very much agree with the hon. and learned Member for Belfast; and had he not made the suggestion which he has done, it was my intention to have done so. The hon. and learned Member for Belfast expressed the general opinion of the House—certainly of the Irish Members, so far as I know—when he said that there should be some fixed limit beyond which a Judge
 788 789 "It is quite true that the Lord Chief Justice is no longer young or vigorous enough to deal with lengthened or complicated cases." 790 v. 791 The Times 792 nisi prius
 MR. MAGUIRE : I rise to order, and I claim your protection, Sir. I wish to know whether any Gentleman in this House is allowed to say of another Gentleman that he has stated that which he knows to be unfounded? If such a statement were made outside of the House a very un-Parliamentary reply would be made to it.
 COLONEL NORTH  said, he would beg to ask the noble Lord, whether the order was accompanied by unlimited authority to General Guy not to act on economical
 769
 MR. OLIPHANT , in seconding the Motion, said, he could fully confirm what had been said by the hon. Baronet as to the inconvenience experienced in the county of Fife. As Member for the county, he had constantly made complaints of the irregularities attending the transmission of letters.
 MR. BIDDULPH : I wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he is prepared to relax the provisions of the Bank Act in the event of the Bank directors making a proposition to that effect?
 SIR PATRICK O'BRIEN,  speaking in favour of the Vote, asserted that the Presbyterians of Ireland were an essentially liberal body, and he warned them not to be led away by hon. Gentlemen opposite, who sought to curry favour with them by supporting the Vote. He trusted the day would come when the Presbyterians and Roman Catholics in Ireland would be
 834
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he wished to know if any interest had been refunded?
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, What was the extent of liability undertaken by the Indian Government under the Madras Irrigation and Canal Act of 1860; whether the capital of £1,000,000 was fully paid up; what amount of interest has been paid from the Indian Exchequer upon that capital; and whether any sums advanced have been repaid out of the profits of the Canal Company? What amount of additional capital was raised under the said Company's Canal Act of 1863; how much of this additional capital has been paid up, and what amount is still due on unpaid shares; also what amount of interest has been paid on the additional capital, and from what sources the interest has come? And what is the object of the Act introduced to amend the Acts of 1860 and 1863; whether it has been brought before Parliament with the knowledge of the Indian Government; and whether there are any grounds to suppose that the works of this Company will ever prove reproductive?
 MR. AYTOUN  said, that the despatch which was now asked for with reference to the conveyance of letters in Fife had, in the case of the borough which he represented, been granted, and the request with regard to the county which had been so long uncomplied with by the Post Office authorities was, he believed, a very reasonable one.
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, that there
 811 "It seems to me that the Attorney General and I differ in our recollection of the occurrence at Tullamore. Mine remains unaltered." "I have spoken to the Deputy Clerk of the Crown of the King's County, and from what he says, and my own recollection, the occurrence at the assizes was thus:—The Deputy Clerk of the Crown always has in a book before him entries of the different forms of oath and of the form of sentence in capital cases, (fee, and from the first circuit the Chief Justice went to the present day, whenever a prisoner was to be sentenced to death a copy of the formal words of the sentence, with a blank for the day of execution, was invariably placed before the Judge on the Bench. In the case in question, during the address of the Chief Justice to the prisoner, it occurred to the Judge when he approached that part where the day of execution is named, that, in consequence of a point being saved for the Court of Appeal, it became necessary, instead of the usual time, to fix a day after the Dublin Commission, which was then close at hand, and sufficiently remote to enable the other Judges to attend in the Court of Appeal, and although he had previously determined on the day, he had not any memorandum of it, and was obliged to refer to an almanack, which occasioned some delay. I have no note of the trial, and nothing occurred at the time to attract my attention to any defect in the conduct of it so as to fix it on my mind." 812 "He denied the wisdom, the prudence, the justice of arraigning a Judge unless upon some charge of personal corruption, of gross and grievous neglect of duty, warranting his removal from the Bench."—[3  Hansard,
 MR. S. B. MILLER  said, that this question had always been introduced hitherto in the form of a separate Motion, and had never been raised in Committee of Supply. That fact would account for the small number of Members on the Opposition Benches. It would have been more becoming if the hon. Gentleman the Member for Sheffield had brought forward his Motion openly and manfully, instead of adopting the course he had done. The grant had tended much to promote the instruction and morality of the inhabitants of Ulster, who were as earnest for its maintenance as for the existence of the Established Church. It was a miserable pittance given to a most useful and exemplary body of clergymen, and it would be a dark day for that province when it was withdrawn. He would state his own opinion to be that the grant should, on the contrary, be largely increased.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , as at present advised, was not aware of any intention to change the mode of obtaining these returns, or to employ any agency different from that hitherto adopted. Any disclosure of the number of cattle possessed by an individual farmer, or of anything connected with his particular affairs, was carefully avoided. All that was made public was an aggregate amount, and the same principle would be applied when they took the acreage under cultivation as was applied in ascertaining the quantities of live stock. The Government trusted to the farmer for the information; and the whole matter was one of a voluntary character.
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, it had been thought desirable in the first instance to take an account of all the live stock in the kingdom, as a piece of information very useful to agriculturists. The returns were entirely voluntary, but he was informed that the farmers and holders of stock generally, encouraged by the magistrates, the boards of guardians, and the lords-lieutenant of counties, had all shown a desire to give the fullest information. It was the intention of the Govern-
 837
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  explained that excisemen were not employed to collect the information; the surveyors, being high officers of the Board of Inland Revenue, sent the schedules to the farmers. It was the superior officers who were employed, and the returns were voluntarily made by the fanners. The cattle returns could only be regarded as an experiment, and some little time would be required before the Government could state finally the course which they would take regarding the agricultural statistics generally,
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, the subject referred to by the right hon. Baronet was under consideration, and a measure dealing with the question was in course of preparation; it would also contain some other Amendments of the Merchant Shipping Act. In the present state of public business, however, he did not think it very probable that such a measure would pass during the present Session.
 MR. COGAN  observed, that this was part of a very large and serious question, affecting generally Ecclesiastical Establishments in Ireland, which must soon come under the consideration of the House. He did not consider this was the right end of the subject to begin with, and he therefore trusted that there would not be a division on this particular grant to-night. He repudiated the assumption of exclusive loyalty made on behalf of Ulster, and when he heard the progress, prosperity, and civilization of the northern province spoken of in contrast to other parts of Ireland, he was tempted to ask whether the town of Belfast was not situated in that northern province, and whether it had not been year after year handed over to civil strife, and whether its streets had not been dyed with the blood of peaceful citizens.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  thought his hon. and learned Friend had opened too broad a question to be discussed in so thin a House. If the paltry grant which the hon. Member objected to were once touched, the whole question of ecclesiastical endowments in Ireland would be re-opened. He thought no one would grudge the small sum appropriated to the Presbyterians of Ireland when the large endowments of the Established Church were remembered. In his opinion, the Presbyterians had a right to the grant.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  wished to know the meaning of the item of £4,999, value of biscuit supplied from navy stores at Malta for Circassian exiles."
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, there was no necessity for protecting the brewery trade. Hops should go into the market like any other article, and be dealt with as the trader felt disposed.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  hoped the House would allow him to read one portion of the letter of General Hay to  The Times.
 SIR CHARLES RUSSELL  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether a Committee to inquire into the present system of Musketry Instruction is not sitting; whether any notice of such Committee has been given, enabling those desirous of giving evidence to do so; whether General Hay is a Member of the said Committee; and whether the attention of the Secretary of State for War has been called to a letter written by General Hay to  The Times, The Times 818 819
 MR. WATKIN  said, that two years ago, on the Motion of Mr. Caird, the House declared itself in favour of a complete system of agricultural statistics. It ought to be stated how the present system was a compliance with that expressed opinion of the House.
 MR. GOLDNEY  asked for some explanation of the mode in which this large item had been expended. In the agricultural districts with which he was connected, the only returns which had come to hand were those connected with the live stock of the country.
 MR. GOLDNEY  thought it very desirable that the Government should give the fullest and earliest information as to the agents through whom the farmers were to make their returns.
 MR. GOLDNEY  asked, whether this £10,000 had been or would be paid to the Excise officers in addition to their ordinary salaries? Excisemen were not, as it seemed to him, the proper parties to collect this valuable information, which would he much more readily given to local agents of respectability and influence, the cost of whose employment would be amply covered by the Vote of £10,000.
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, that he would abstain from offering any opinion as to the competency or the incompetency of the Lord Chief Justice or of the Lord Justice of Appeal, because on that subject he knew nothing but the statements which had been made in course of the debate, and it appeared to him that they were very conflicting and could not be relied upon. The incapacity of the Lord Chief Justice of Ireland to pass sentence of
 806 807 Commentaries 808 otium cum dignitate.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I will look into the matter, with a view, if possible, of finding a remedy.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : In a very few words allow me to say that the facts of the case have not been brought under my notice until I heard the statement of the hon. Baronet, and I was not aware that any application had been made to the Council on the subject. I apprehend that the answer sent to the application from the Council must have been merely a statement as to what the ease was. If the hon. Baronet will furnish me with the facts of the case, I will bring it under the notice of the Council with the view of seeing if anything can be done in what appears to be a very exceptional case. I see that there is an interval between the date of the warrant and the date upon which the local inspector entered upon his duties.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : After the answer that has been given on the part of the Government by my right hon. Friend, and after the temperate speech that has been delivered by the hon. and learned Member
 793 794
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The intimate knowledge I have of my right hon. Friend will not permit me to doubt for a moment that he will show full deference to that expression of opinion from the Chair; but perhaps I may be permitted to say that I am afraid my right hon. Friend does not understand the point in issue. He is perfectly at liberty to contradict the statement made by the hon. Member for Cork, but he is not at liberty, according to the ordinary rules of debate, to impute to the hon. Gentleman that he wilfully made a statement which he knew to be untrue.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : My right hon. Friend will, I am sure, after the intimation which has fallen from the Chair, retract the statement which he made. He surely did not intend to impute that the hon. Member made a speech which he knew to be unfounded.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : I do not rise for the purpose of entering into any details, such as have been mentioned by the hon. Member who brought this subject under the consideration of the House. Of the details which he has given I am necessarily ignorant, and I should be sorry, therefore, to offer any opinion as to the accuracy or inaccuracy of the facts which he has alleged; but I cannot help asking the House to consider the character of the case put by the hon. Member, and, as it seems to me, the very great inconvenience, and I might almost say the great injury to the administration of justice, which must arise from bringing subjects of this kind in this manner under the consideration of the House. Let me ask the House to observe what is the proposition put upon our Notice paper, and which is understood in all parts of Ireland to form the subject of our debate to night. The question put is whether, in the opinion of the Irish Government, regard being had to the advanced age of some of Her Majesty's Judges, the constitution and the present condition of the Irish Bench, law and equity, are satisfactory and conducive to the due administration of justice in Ireland? No names are mentioned, but a general insinuation is conveyed that the state of the Irish Bench, both at common law and equity, is unsatisfactory; and the House is asked to-night to enter into a consideration of the merits or demerits of persons whose names are not even mentioned, and who are not apprised beforehand of the facts to be brought forward which they or their friends in this House will be called upon to meet. What would be thought if some English Member were to put a notice of this kind upon the paper—a notice affecting the Lord Chief Justice, the Keeper of the Great Seal, or some other of the superior Judges of law or equity, and to drag their names before the public without notice and upon mere newspaper paragraphs? ["No!"] Yes, I
 784 785 786 787
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, the question people in Ireland desired to know was whether, if an owner of landed property entered into a written contract with his tenant that as between them the provisions of this Bill should not apply at all, that would be valid under the Bill?
 SIR 'JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, Whether the Secretary of State in Council has under his consideration all the complaints which have been made to Her Majesty's Government, or to Parliament, by officers of the Indian Army in respect of the non-fulfilment of the Parliamentary guarantee of their former rights and privileges, including questions of compensation, bonus, and pension funds; whether the Statement which he has promised to make would have reference to all such claims, complaints and petitions; and if he can inform the House when he will be prepared to make that Statement?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he rose to ask Mr. Attorney General, Why the proceedings which he stated on the 6th of March, 1865, were about to be taken in order to recover from Mr. Leonard Edmunds "the balance of the sums alleged to be deficient" in his accounts have not been so taken; and, why the suit which it was intimated to Mr. Edmunds by the
 768
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  said, he wished to know, whether the proceedings would be of such a nature as to allow Mr. Edmunds to offer any explanation or defence which might be within his power to all the charges preferred against him?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  drew attention to the fact that the Bill did not provide for the remuneration of a very meritorious officer, the Chairman of the Lunacy Board, who at present discharged his duties gratuitously.
 SIR JERVOISE JERVOISE  wished to know why part of the Vote was set apart for inspectors of sheep?
 MR. HUDDLESTON  could have wished that the hon. Member had given the House the benefit of his suggestions on the occasion of the second reading. [Mr. DODSON: I was in the Chair.] The hon. and learned Member recapitulated the regulations of the existing law, and insisted that it was desirable not only for the planter but the consumer, and the brewer especially, that the class of hops desired should be obtainable in the market. This Bill involved no new principle, and only provided that the mark of the year and weight should be put on by the owner instead of by the Excise officer. 154 petitions had been presented, signed by 1,700 persons in favour of this proposal. Growers, factors, and merchants had signed these petitions. The Legislature had already declared in favour of exceptional legislation with regard to hops. And before the Committee of 1857 evidence was given that the marking of hops was essential for the protection of the trade against frauds. The objection to the Bill came from the Sussex growers, who grew an inferior quality of hops which, without being compulsorily marked, as proposed, might appear in the market with the Kent brand upon them.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether he intends to propose any change in the Tribunal prescribed by the Merchant Shipping Act for investigating the causes of the loss of Merchant Ships at sea, or in any other manner to provide increased security for the safety of passengers in passenger ships?
 COLONEL PERCY HERBERT  vindicated his friend General Hay, who, if he had not originated the present system of musketry, had at all events brought it to perfection. He, however, agreed that, if the subject were to be investigated, it ought to be by practical men, and not by men who of necessity could know nothing about it. Of the members of the Commission, General Hay alone had any practical acquaintance with the subject. One officer on the Committee had gone through the system of instruction with his regiment, and that was all. He had done the same, and had worked hard, and was convinced that there were many things that required alteration. The system was unnecessarily long, subjected the soldier to unnecessary torture, and unnecessarily worried the officers. The soldier was bullied at every turn, and those who could not see were punished for their defective vision by being obliged to drill all the winter. One soldier, who was a third-class man, said to him, "I cannot shoot—I cannot see the targets;" but when this man put on glasses he became a first-class shot. He had seen the officers and inspectors at Aldershot order the shooting to be discontinued on account of some trivial wish of some one officer at the end of the ground. The consequence was, that sometimes a whole company had been kept very unnecessarily exposed to a broiling summer sun until perhaps six o'clock in the evening. In his
 820
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  rose to call attention to the continued complaint of the way in which the Fife Postal Service is conducted, and to move a Resolution, and said he was sorry to say that, notwithstanding the complaints made to the Post Office authorities, there had been no improvement in reference to this matter. It was not until that morning that the Post Office authorities had thought proper to issue a circular explaining the reasons upon which they had acted. The Postmaster stated, in his defence, that he (Sir Robert Anstruther) regarded the negotiation as a mere dispute between the Post Office and the Railway Company as to terms; whereas it was, in fact, a question whether the Post Office could pay the sum demanded by the Company with duo regard to the correspondence to be benefited; and be said that the correspondence was very small, and that the £2,000 a year which the Post Office offered was the very utmost they would he justified in paying, the Company having refused to make that alteration in the hours of the trains, which Would alone justify their demand of a higher price. That could hardly be so, for £250 had been offered in order to secure other trains. In answer to this necessity for an alteration of trains he (Sir Robert Anstruther) could only say that be had posted a letter in Cupar, the county town of Fife, at half past eight o'clock in the evening, and it was not delivered in Edinburgh for twenty-lour hours; whereas if the Post Office would only use the one o'clock train a difference of fifteen hours would be secured in the delivery of letters. He could not but think it a very hard case that the time of the House should be wasted in having these questions so frequently discussed, and that notwithstanding their frequent discussion no redress should be obtained. He thought the Return called for by the hon. Member for Hastings (Mr. Waldegrave-Leslie) sufficiently demonstrated the incon-
 775
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I only rise to say one word with respect to the Motion of the hon. Member. There is no doubt that when he first proposed to offer his Motion to the House he intended only to refer, as far as I can gather, to the Lord Chief Justice; but he has now seen fit, it appears, to add the name of the Lord Justice of Appeal. It is in his name that I wish to say one or two words bearing upon the question. I concur with the right hon. Gentleman who has said it would be better if definite cases were fixed upon in which it could be shown that the Lord Justice of Appeal had in any way failed to do his duty. That should be made a substantive Motion for an Address to the Crown, in order that the matter might be fully considered; and if anything was brought home to the Judge in question, he would then be properly removed from discharging the duties of his office. The hon. Member for Cork said he could produce numberless instances of a failure of justice on the part of the Lord Chief Justice and of the Lord Justice of Appeal. I am surprised—
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I beg respect-folly to say that I must decline to withdraw what I then said.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : Perhaps I may be allowed to say that what I said was this:—The hon. Member said, repeating the gossip of eight years ago, that the Lord Chief Justice would have withdrawn from the bench if his successor had then been agreeable to him. I say that is a statement which is wholly unfounded; and I defy the hon. Member to prove that statement.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I want to know what statement I am asked to withdraw?
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I will let him explain afterwards.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : The hon. Member stated, and it must be within the knowledge of the House, that he reported the gossip of eight years ago. That statement I will not retract.
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : I think the rules of the House conform to the manner of my proceeding. The hon. Member can rise when I sit down, and correct any statement which I may make; but he has no right whatever to interrupt me while I am speaking. And the House will bear with me when I express my opinion upon what he has just submitted for our consideration. He said that, according to the gossip of eight years ago, the Lord Chief Justice would have withdrawn from the Bench if his successor had been agreeable to him. It is too bad for an hon. Member representing an important constituency such as Cork—and he takes good care to tell us every time he speaks that he represents
 801
 SIR ROBERT PEEL  said, he had a question to put to Mr. Attorney General for Ireland, which, as it considerably affected landed property, he might, perhaps, be allowed to preface with a brief explanation. The right hon. and learned Gentleman, when the Chief Secretary introduced his Bill to amend the law relating to the Tenure and Improvement of land in Ireland, said that it implied the consent of the landlord to specific improvements, and that it proposed to interfere in no way with the perfect freedom of contract between landlord and tenant. That was a clear and distinct statement. It had, however, been stated authoritatively by the organ of the parties who induced the Government to bring forward the measure that—
 "No landlord can defeat the claim of his tenant to compensation under the Act by a general contract not to improve, or not to claim compensation if he should improve." "A general agreement would be one in contravention of the policy of the Act, and would be voidable."
 SIR ROBERT PEEL : That is exactly the point. I am quite willing to admit that I meant to infer that the gossip which he of course had listened to eight years ago was unfounded. I do not mean to say that
 803 A laugh.
 MR. BAZLEY : The right hon. Gentleman has anticipated the question I intended to put to Her Majesty's Government; but I would also wish to inquire further, whether in the event of their not having already taken measures to afford relief the necessity for so doing is not deserving of their immediate consideration under existing circumstances?
 MR. BAZLEY : With the permission of the House I wish to inquire of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he has consented to recommend any peculiar faci-
 841
 SIR EDWARD COLEBROOKE  said, that the hon. and learned Gentleman who opposed the clause ought to advance a good reason why it should not be considered, for it only embodied a reasonable and sound principle, capable of defence ill point of justice, and practically acted upon in England.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL : That arose in consequence of his having to take the oath.
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  rose to ask the Home Secretary, Whether Her Majesty's Government contemplate taking any step to afford compensation to the owners of cattle slaughtered by order of local inspectors, in the time which intervened between the passing of the Cattle Contagious Diseases Act (the 20th February, 1866) and the constituting of the local authority in the district where such slaughter took place? He said: I wish to call the attention of the Home Secretary to this subject, which is chiefly of interest to the county I represent. According to the Act, the local authorities were to be constituted within ten days from its passing. That time was ample for most of the counties; but in the county of Perth, owing to the lamentable death of the late lord-lieutenant, a considerable delay took place, and the local authorities, instead of being constituted within ten days, were not appointed for a whole month. The Act became law on the 20th February, but up to the 20th March there were no local authorities in Perthshire. I do not impute any blame in this delay to Her Majesty's Government or to the noble Lord who is now the lord-lieutenant. But the circumstance was productive of great hardship and inconvenience to the county, especially because the disease was raging with great severity during that month. The grievance showed itself in various and even opposite forms. Some farmers complained that their cattle had been slaughtered by inspectors acting under Privy Council orders, and that therefore they could not obtain compensation. Others complained that their cattle which were infected with the disease, and which they were willing to have slaughtered, could not be put to death because the inspectors did not think they had power to give orders to that effect. A farmer in the immediate neighbourhood of Perth wrote to me to say that in this way he had lost fifteen head of
 813 814
 MR. M'CULLAGH TORRENS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether, having before him the Report of the Jamaica Commissioners of Inquiry, he has advised Her Majesty to disallow the Bill of Indemnity passed by the Colonial Legislature for acts done in repressing the disturbances of October last?
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Ex-
 874
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  stated that the Government had no such statistics to lay before the House. The matter was simply one for argument, and not for statistical proof.
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he rose to explain that in answering the question on the subject of Lotteries for Charitable purposes put to him on Thursday evening by the hon. Member for Peterborough (Mr. Whalley), he was under the misapprehension at the moment that common informers could prosecute for breaches of the law in reference to lotteries, whereas the Act of 1845 took away the right of private prosecution for such offence.
 MR. WALSH  said, he trusted the House would extend its indulgence and kindness to him while he addressed to them a few remarks. This was not the first time that the small boroughs had been attacked; they had survived former assaults, and he trusted they might survive the present. These boroughs had never wanted able and eloquent defenders, and among the most eloquent and most able was the right hon. Gentleman sitting opposite. In 1859 the Chancellor of the Exchequer said—
 "I must frankly own it appears to me that to proceed far in the disfranchisement of small boroughs is a course injurious to the efficiency of the House of Commons. You must not consider in this matter the question only of the electors. You must consider quite as much who are likely to be the elected.…If you have nothing but large and populous bodies to return Members of Parliament.…you will not find it possible to introduce adequately into this House the race of men by whom the government of the country is to be carried on."—[3  Hansard, 914 "Look to her, Moor; have a quick eye to see; She hath deceived her father, and may thee." 915 Dod,
 MR. KER  expressed his dissatisfaction with the mode in which it was proposed in the Irish Reform Bill to deal with Downpatrick, the borough which he represented.
 MR. KER , under those circumstances, would reserve his observations till the Irish Bill came on.
 MR. BUTTON  said, he was not disposed to object to the second reading of the Bill, because he was of opinion that a Committee composed of half-a-dozen Members from each side of the House might in a very short time make this Bill into a very useful measure. His own opinion was that instead of grouping boroughs already enfranchised, it would have been a wiser course to have partially disfranchised all boroughs of under 15,000 population, and thus acquired sixty seats, which could have been distributed among the populous places which were at present unrepresented. He thought that the system of grouping boroughs adopted by the Government would be very unsatisfactory to the residents in these boroughs, and most inconvenient to the hon. Gentlemen who represented them. In some cases of proposed grouping it was extremely difficult to see any reason for the grouping, geographically or otherwise. In reference to his own case, he could not conceive why Cirencester, Tewkesbury, and Evesham should be joined. The people of those towns knew nothing of each other, and any person going the round of the three towns would have to travel over several branch lines, to go a distance of forty miles, and to change carriages five times. In reference to two boroughs in his own county, Lymington and Andover, he thought that it would have been far better, instead of being grouped, that they should have one Member each, and that unrepresented towns should be thrown into groups. In reference to the distribution of seats he found that South Hants was not to have a third Member, though from the large population and from the rapid increase of the constituency in consequence of the large towns, such as Portsmouth and Southampton, that division of the county had upwards of 100,000 inhabitants, more than the number considered to entitle other counties to the extra Member. He was glad that the Bill was to be allowed to go into Committee, and he had no doubt that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would meet hon. Gentlemen on the Conservative side in a spirit of fairness, and that on the other hand the proposals of the Government would receive due consideration; for without mutual concession no measure of this kind could be carried, and he was anxious to see the much-vexed question of Parliamentary Reform settled during the present Session.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he should be glad to know the position in
 920 "That it be committed to the same Committee with the Representation of the People Bill, and that it be an Instruction to the Committee that they do make both the said Bills into one."
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Police Constables on duty at the Houses of Parliament have lately been raised from the Third Class of officers to the First Class; if so, whether the extra pay of First Class Constables, which was authorized by the Secretary of State has been paid to the House of Commons Police; whether their present remuneration (including the gratuity paid to them for their extra services) is not now as low as it was twenty years ago; whether a half of those Constables—who do duty at the Houses of Parliament during the Session, but receive no extra pay during the recess—will receive during the recess their pay on the First Class scale or on the Third Class scale; whether Police Constables receive an addition to their pay throughout the year for service at the various Government Offices; whether Constables who have contributed to the Extra Pension Fund have not, under the regulations of 1864, been deprived of the privilege of the Extra Pension Fund; and, whether the retiring pension of Constables of thirty years' standing will be calculated on the basis of a guinea a week, or on that of the pay of First Class Officers—namely, twenty-three shillings?
 MR. AYRTON  said, that among the other provisions of this Bill was one giving power to Her Majesty to retain Claremont for her life. He had wished a few nights ago to make a few remarks when the Report on that Bill was considered; but having understood that it was not intended on that occasion to proceed with the Bill, his accidental absence had deprived him of an opportunity of doing so. He now, however, wished the House to consider seriously what they were about to do in this matter. They were violating a very important principle which had been laid down with reference to the disposal of public property and public revenue by the Crown. It was a long time since the Crown had possessed the power of disposing at its pleasure of the lands or the revenues which constituted its hereditary revenue. It was found that so many abuses had crept in through the freedom in that respect which had been reserved by the Sovereign, and that he was liable to so many importunities, that Parliament was at last compelled to enact that no grants should be made of Crown lands to any person except under the most stringent conditions. But the general revenue was also in former times left to a large
 922 923 924
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no complaint to make of the history fraught with constitutional lore which had been given by his hon. Friend the Member for the Tower Hamlets. The practical question to which his hon. Friend referred was one of great importance—namely, how the revenues for the support and enjoyment of the Crown had been made by other persons a means of private enjoyment and public abuse. He quite admitted if his hon. Friend could show that there was anything in the proceeding now proposed that bore any affinity to that subject he would be entirely justified in asking the House to adopt his proposal. But the first objection he had to make to the proposition of his hon. Friend was, that it would be, in his opinion, entirely inoperative. As far as he could judge, the section of the Act of 1 &c 2  Vict., 925 926 927
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he thought the question of the hon. Baronet was a perfectly fair one. When introducing the Bill he said that as regarded the question of procedure he would endeavour to gather the feeling of the House, and he naturally looked to the termination of the discussion on the second reading as the period at which the Government would have received a sufficient indication of that feeling. They had supposed from the course matters had taken previously, that there would have been a longer discussion on the second reading; but the information they now had led them to believe that it would, on the whole, meet the views of the majority of the House if the two Bills should be combined together. As a matter of fact, he believed that was the only point which had remained
 921
 MR. DISRAELI : Sir, when the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced this Bill to the notice of the House, he favoured us with the views of Her Majesty's Government with respect to the subject of small boroughs. According to the views of Her Majesty's Government, those boroughs are not really liable to the charge that has so frequently been made against them; while, on the other hand, one of the merits that has usually been alleged in their favour was, according to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, not deserved. With regard to the first point—namely, the imputation of bribery, Her Majesty's Government are of opinion, and I entirely agree with them, that no charge can be made against the small boroughs particularly on that head. Unfortunately, it is not only the small boroughs of the country that are open to the imputation of venality in election mat-
 875 876 indoctum Parliamentum, 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885 886 887 888 889 890 891 892 893 894 895 "I was defeated by the Liberal party—and not only by the Liberal party, but by those Members of the Liberal party who represent great constituencies." 896 laches. bonâ fide, 897 898 laches 899 ibam fortè viâ sacra 900 901
 MR. CARDWELL : Sir, whoever undertakes to submit to this House a measure intended to reform the present system of the representation of the people must he prepared to encounter many difficulties and much criticism, involving many plausible objections, which, on a first hearing, it may be difficult to answer, because we are dealing with the most complicated form of government known to history; and it is a condition of the problem that we shall not found our argument upon abstract principles, but upon principles laid down by our Constitution; and we must endeavour, by amendment boldly made, to deal in a practical way with the great difficulties that Time, the great innovator, has permitted to grow up. If this is the natural expectation, the history of former Reform Bills shows that it is confirmed by experience. The great Reform Act of 1832 was met by objections far more formidable and criticism far more searching than that which the right hon. Gentleman has advanced against the present measure. Yet of that Bill the right hon. Gentleman himself was the supporter, and is now constantly the eulogizer and the advocate; and the noble Lord at the head of the party opposite, with the noble Lord
 902 903 904 905 906 907 908 909 910 primâ facie 911 912 913
 MR. CARDWELL  replied that it was quite true that Her Majesty's Government had received the Report of the Jamaica Commissioners, but they had not yet received the whole of the evidence upon which that Report was founded, and therefore they did not think it right to take any steps with regard to the Indemnity Bill.
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  replied that the police constables at the Houses of Parliament were promoted, as were other constables, by seniority, unless passed over for misconduct; they were all in the first or second classes as entitled by seniority, and received the pay of those classes—namely, first class, 23 s s s
 MR. SPEAKER , in reference to one of the questions asked by the hon. Baronet, said, that an Instruction to the Committee was not in the nature of an Amendment to the Motion for going into Committee; and, therefore, Amendments on that Motion had not been interfered with by the Instruction.
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Member was not in order in discussing the Reform Bill for Ireland, as that measure was not before the House.
 MR. ARKWRIGHT : I can fully understand the very great difficulties which a Government must encounter in endeavouring to deal with such an important and intricate subject as that of the Re-distribution of Seats. I can well believe that an Administration, however conscientious, must inevitably lay itself open to the charge—or at any rate to the suspicion—of inconsistency and unfairness, considering the numerous and conflicting interests which this Bill touches; and considering too how much, as in this case, is left to the arbitrary discretion of its promoters. I should, therefore, be unwilling to attach too much importance to the curious chain of concidences which in the Bill now before the House does, undoubtedly, expose it to the accusation of being formed as a party measure. I will not unduly insist on the curious fact that the figure of 8,000, ar-
 916 917 "The good old rule, the simple plan, That they should take who have the power, And they should keep who can,"
 MR. BAINES  said, in the absence of his hon. Friend (Mr. Hadfield), he would
 872
 SIR GEORGE GREY  replied that the principal object with which the Annual Indemnity Bill was passed had been put an end to since the Qualification for Offices Bill had received the Royal Assent. It was, however, desirable, before entirely dispensing with such a Bill, to carefully consider the various Acts of Parliament which might make such a Bill necessary. The question was at present being investigated.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he had had the honour to serve on the Commission on whose recommendations a measure of this sort had been adopted. There were some details of the measure which might not be consistent with the Report of the Commission, and which he thought might be the subject of Amendment when the Bill was in Committee. But the Bill was one which he thought would produce the greatest possible benefit in Ireland. He hoped it would lessen expense and delay, and would confer upon Ireland some of the benefits which had resulted in this country from the reforms in Chancery. He was anxious that the Bill should become law, subject to some changes in detail.
 MR. JOHN HARDY  said, it was hard that the borough of Dartmouth, which he represented, and which had been tampered with by the Reform Bill of 1832, should again be singled out for attack. If the right hon. Gentleman who framed the Bill had grouped Dartmouth with other towns on the coast having similar interests, such as Brixham, and Paignton, and Teign-mouth, he might not have complained; but what had Dartmouth to do with such way-side boroughs as Ashburton and Totnes, the last of which was of no good repute, and the other was so completely out of the way—for nobody went there—that if a man found himself thereby chance he would have to ask where he was. Dartmouth, too, was one of those boroughs which had won its charter and done the State some service long before many of the larger boroughs had been heard of; and, although a man ought to submit to see a small borough disfranchised with equanimity, if the country were likely to be benefited by the sacrifice, it was rather hard to have one's seat handed over to a Democrat, and to be called upon to make way for the Scotch Radicals. For his own part, he was not in favour of making any addition to the number of Members already in the House, The House could not well contain a greater number, and the great majority of the present Members were unable to express their opinions on any important debate. But, beyond that, the Bill was full of anomalies, which he would illustrate by the single instance that one Member was to be taken away from the cathedral town of Lichfield, while Tam-worth, with 200 or 300 electors less, was left untouched. When the Franchise Bill was brought forward there was the usual cry that it was an honest Bill. But he called nothing honest that did not tell the truth. He would not detain the House longer, as he would have opportunities of attacking its details in Committee, but he could not avoid taking this opportunity of expressing his opposition to the Bill,
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the Government were quite aware that the accommodation for the reception of emigrants on the eastern coast of England
 961
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  stated, in reply, that the printing of the Specifications of Patents had been in arrears in consequence of an insufficient number of clerks, but the numbers had now been increased, and the arrears he hoped would be cleared off in the course of three or four months.
 LORD NAAS : I wish to ask my right
 965
 MR. OWEN STANLEY : Will the Irish Government take precautions as regards the export of cattle from Ireland?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I beg to move that this House will at its rising adjourn till Thursday.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, he had that afternoon received a mass of papers from an eminent London firm connected with the South American trade, and from the hasty glance he had taken at them they appeared to confirm the statement of the hon. Member for South Devon in every particular. It was true that the British inhabitants of Valparaiso had  en masse 970 "Resolved,—1. That the statement of facts read at the meeting this day by Mr. Hayne be hereby adopted as a true and impartial narrative. "2. That this meeting cannot too severely censure the vacillating conduct of Rear Admiral Denman in having given to the British community of Valparaiso positive assurances that he would interfere, by force if necessary, to prevent a general bombardment, and afterwards retracting the same, thus causing the loss of much valuable time which might have been profitably employed in securing safety to life and property. "3. That this meeting cannot but condemn Rear Admiral Denman's conduct as inconsistent with correct ideas of that neutrality which he stated he had strict orders to observe, inasmuch as while he denies to the British community of Valparaiso the protection of the forces under his command, he did not hesitate to detach one of the ships of his squadron for the protection of the Spanish emissaries—contraband of war in Peruvian waters—who left Valparaiso for the north in the mail steamer hence on the 17th inst. "4. That Rear Admiral Denman's plea of want of sufficient force to oppose the Spaniards is humiliating to his countrymen and inexcusable, considering that the co-operation of a powerful United States squadron was pressed upon him by its commanders. And that this meeting cannot express in sufficiently strong terms its indignation that such an atrocity as the bombardment of a defenceless town, with a population of 80,000 inhabitants, should be permitted in the presence of a British squadron. "5. That the absence of precise instructions from the English Government with regard to the threatened bombardment can only be accounted
 971 "6. That it is a matter of regret that between the British Charge d'Affaires and this community there has long existed an estrangement which has rendered him unfit to represent its interests, and that in the present emergency the disadvantages accruing therefrom have been more sensibly felt by his passive submission to the abuses of the Spanish squadron, while other neutrals have been placed in much more favourable positions through the exertions of their representatives. "7. That a deputation be appointed to wait upon the United States Minister, General Kilpa-trick, and upon Commodore Rodgers, and express to them, in behalf of this meeting, its high appreciation of their earnest endeavours to prevent, by co-operation with the British forces, the bombardment of this city, deeply regretting that those endeavours have not been more successful. "8. That these resolutions, and the documents referred to in them, be laid before the British public."
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, that he was glad to confirm all that had been said by his hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Christchurch (Admiral Walcott) with reference to Admiral Denman, and he was quite sure that the best vindication of that gallant officer would come from the Secretary of the Admiralty, who would no doubt tell the House under what orders he was acting. There could be no doubt that it was the duty of the British Admiral not to interfere, because if he did he must have committed some act of war on one side or the other. Unless he had express orders to interfere, the House must justify him in the course which he had taken; and, speaking from a personal knowledge of Admiral Denman, he was sure that if he had had orders which would have justified his committing an act of war, he would have interfered with a promptitude and gallantry which would have insured success.
 ADMIRAL SEYMOUR  said, the first duty of an English Admiral in command of a fleet was to obey the orders of Government; and no doubt in the present instance those orders were to preserve the
 972
 COLONEL EDWARDS : Does the hon. Gentleman mean to say that the document itself is not an authentic document?
 MR. THOMAS BARING  thought the House would see the necessity of its being supplied with ample information on the subject, and that it should have before it the correspondence which had taken place with Spain, as he understood that the Spanish Government had deceived both France and England. The House ought also to have laid before it the instructions which had been given to the British Consul at Valparaiso, as well as those forwarded to the British Admiral. He, with other English merchants connected with the trade of Chile, had waited as a depu-
 985
 MR. BARING  wished to state distinctly to the House that the instructions given by the Admiralty to Admiral Denman were to preserve a strict neutrality between Spain and Chile, and that the gallant Admiral appeared to have strictly and properly carried out these instructions. With respect to the resolutions come to by a meeting of British merchants, which had been read by the hon. and gallant Officer (Colonel Edwards), he very much regretted that he should have read them to the House; but he might now state that, having been passed at the meeting, those resolutions were communicated to Admiral Denman, and he gave the merchants a very courteous reply. He said he would not discuss the resolutions with them; all he would do was to express his great regret at the losses which they had suffered by the bombardment; but in sending home a copy of the resolutions, Admiral Denman also transmitted his replies, which followed the resolutions  seriatim. 986
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, the powers of Her Majesty's Government with respect to cholera were founded upon the 6  Geo. 988 989 Helvetia. 990
 THE O'CONOR DON , in seconding the Motion, said, it was proposed that a Committee should be appointed, not to inquire whether certain principles should be adopted with regard to education in Ireland, but, admitting those principles, that a Committee should be appointed to inquire in what way they might best be carried out. The Motion divided itself into two parts. The object of the first was to give greater freedom of education in schools which were practically denominational; the second referred to the restoration of those rules of the National Board which were adopted as guarantees against anything like proselytism. His hon. Friend (Mr. O'Reilly) had laid down that the essential basis of the system in Ire-
 1000 s. 1001 1002
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that although the hon. and learned Gentleman (Sir Hugh Cairns) bad stated that great changes were about to be introduced into the National system of education in Ireland, his right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland had not so described them in the earlier part of the evening. Of course, it was quite competent to the hon. and learned Gentleman to describe those changes in any terms he pleased; but he wished it to be understood that his right hon. Friend had not announced anything which in their opinion justified that description. But, whether the changes be great or not the subjects were of great interest, especially that part of the subject relating to the model schools. With respect to the question which the hon. and learned Gentleman had put, it was a very fair one. From the course of public business it wa3 probable they would not be able to propose the Vote for Irish Education for some time. They were now in the middle of May, and several weeks must certainly elapse—perhaps six or seven—before that Vote could be proposed. The interval would allow his right hon. Friend and the Irish Government time for considering any matters connected with this interesting subject, which was now under the examination of the Government; and he quite agreed with the hon. and learned Gentleman that
 1031
 LORD NAAS  said, he had heard with some satisfaction the statement made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was not the intention of the Government to propose any very serious changes in the system of National education in Ireland ["No, no"]; although, certainly, from the statement made by the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. C. Fortescue) at an earlier period in the evening, it did seem that some such changes were in contemplation. He wished to know in what form these changes would be brought under the consideration of the House. On former occasions of this kind a letter had been addressed to the Commissioners, indicating the changes proposed to be made, and that letter was laid before Parliament. Would that course be adopted in the present instance? He also wished to know whether, if the Government had not time to mature their plan sufficiently during the present Session, they would distinctly pledge themselves not to introduce the changes during the recess or until Parliament had an opportunity of considering them?
 MR. ESMONDE  observed, that it was quite competent to the Commissioners of National education in Ireland to make the alterations themselves. On a former occasion changes had been introduced, not by Parliament, but by the Commissioners.
 ADMIRAL WALCOTT  said, the reputation and the honour of a British Admiral was far dearer to him than life itself. He could assure the House that he would not have risen to defend the conduct of any brother officer, even though that officer, as in the present instance, was his personal friend, were he not persuaded that no blame could be justly imputed to him. Thus stood the facts of the case. The Spanish Admiral with a formidable squadron arrived off the Port of Valparaiso, for the alleged purpose of receiving from the Government of Chile satisfaction for acts said to be hostile to Spain, and his first stipulation was that the Spanish flag should be saluted by the Chilean authorities. The Spaniards, he need scarcely remark, were a proud and haughty people and exceedingly obstinate, while the Chilean Government, though, perhaps, less haughty, were certainly equally obstinate. It was scarcely to be expected, therefore, that any pacific understanding could in reason be arrived at. According to a letter which he had read that morning, written by an officer during this transaction from on board Admiral Denman's ship, it appeared the Chilean Government offered to erect the Spanish flag on the parapet of their little fort, and to salute on a clear understanding that the Chilean flag were displayed on board the Spanish Admiral's ship, and the salute they first gave be returned; but the Spanish Admiral was too haughty to accede to this. Now, with regard to the conduct of Admiral Denman, it had been alleged that he gave the English merchants of Valparaiso an assurance that in the event the Spanish Admiral should persist in his threat to bombard the city, failing to receive the satisfaction he had demanded from the Chilean Government, he (Admiral Denman) would protect their property; but had he given any such assurance he was convinced he would have scrupulously fufillled his promise. No doubt he used every remonstrance in his power to dissuade the Spanish Admiral from so dastardly an outrage as the destruction of a city that was utterly defenceless and had no means of returning his fire. When, however, the Spanish Admiral adhered to his intention, the British Admiral had no power to prevent his carrying his threat into execution. He had
 968
 MR. DENMAN  thought that this debate, so far as it referred to the conduct of a British officer, had been rather premature. He thought the hon. Baronet who had brought forward the subject (Sir Lawrence Palk) should have waited to have the papers in his hand before he assumed misconduct which a British officer ought to be ashamed to be guilty of. He understood the Under Secretary to say that the British merchants had made statements which were directly contrary to the fact; but he also understood the hon. Gentleman to intimate that those merchants had done so under some misapprehension or in consequence of some misstatements which had been made to them. He might state that he had received a private letter from an authority on whom he relied, and the details in that letter were in accordance with the facts stated by the Under Secretary.
 MR. COWPER  said, in reply, that one of the important purposes for which the National Gallery had been established was to afford an opportunity to art students to copy pictures. They were allowed to do so when the public was excluded, and when, consequently, they might paint without interruption; but he thought the convenience of the public would be too much sacrificed if the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman were adopted. At present the rooms were not large enough to enable students to copy pictures on open days without interfering with the public; but the new rooms would be much larger, and when they were opened probably some arrangement might be made to enable artists
 964
 MR. LIDDELL  said, that the bombardment of Valparaiso was a question which interested not only this country or the House, but the whole civilized world; for whatever differences of opinion might exist with regard to prize property captured at sea, blockades, and other matters of that kind, there could be but one opinion on this point—that the bombardment of a defenceless city was an act inconsistent with humanity, and to be reprobated by the voice of public justice. He believed the fair expression of public opinion in the House of Commons would not be without its effect in the councils of Europe, nor even in those of Spain herself,
 969
 LORD JOHN BROWNE : Am I right in understanding the Chief Secretary for Ireland that the whole of the cattle on the farms where the disease broke out have been killed? If not, will the Government give any instructions on the subject?
 MR. O'REILLY  said, he would not, after the statement of the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, press his Motion to a division. In the first place, he understood that the rules for the prevention of proselytism were under the consideration of the Commissioners With regard to the second part of his Motion, opposition was brought against it on the belief that the proposals could not be practically carried out. With respect to the third point on which he had spoken, but which was not embodied in his Resolution for the reasons he had stated—namely, the consideration of the present position of training schools in Ireland—the Government were far from holding that it was satisfactory, and they promised that it should receive their earnest consideration. He was quite ready to leave the responsibility of dealing with this subject with the Government, and he hoped the result would be the production of such a measure as would be satisfactory to the people of Ireland.
 MR. O'REILLY , in moving for a Select Committee to inquire into the subject of National Education in Ireland, said, that he had on several occasions ventured to trespass on the attention of the House in reference to this subject; he trusted that the discussions on these occasions had not been altogether without effect, and that the question was better understood in this country and in the House than it had been formerly; so that there might be some chance of an amicable understanding being arrived at, which would be for the good not
 991 992 993 994 "It should be a system of education from which should be banished all suspicion of proselytism, and which, while admitting children of all religions, should not interfere with the peculiar tenets of any," 995 996 997 998 999
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he thought the question asked by the right hon. Gentleman might be answered by some passages of British history. He remembered the time when the King of the Two Sicilies proposed to bombard the rebellious town of Messina, near to which were stationed several English vessels of war, one of them being the  Bulldog, 984
 MR. LAYARD : I think that the best answer I can give to the statements and questions which have come from the other side of the House is to state simply what has taken place at Valparaiso. The House is aware that some time last year, in consequence of certain occurrences which had taken place in Chile during the war between Spain and Peru, and which were considered offensive to Spain, Admiral Pareja, who commanded the Spanish fleet, suddenly appeared before Valparaiso, and presented in the form of an  ultimatum ultimatum 975 976 Covadonga. 977 978
 MR. LAYARD : No, I say nothing of the sort; but I say that the statements contained in that document are entirely without foundation, and contrary to the real facts of the case. One of the resolutions states that Admiral Denman had informed the British merchants that he would defend Valparaiso against an attack by the Spanish fleet. There is not one single word of truth in that statement. It was Admiral Denman's duty to maintain the strictest neutrality; but a circumstance did occur which will possibly explain that statement. At one time it was the intention of the Chilean Government to employ torpedoes at Valparaiso against the Spanish fleet, and they sent to the United States for an engineer who had distinguished himself in the discovery and manufacture of torpedoes. When the Governments of England and France heard of this intention they directed their Ministers to represent to the Chilean Government that it would be unwise to make use of such engines of attack against the Spanish fleet, as it would at once give the Spanish Admiral a plausible excuse for bombarding the place. Indeed, the Spanish Commander had informed Admiral Denman that an attempt to injure his ships by torpedoes would be followed by a bombardment of Valparaiso. The American and English commanders then requested the Spanish commander to give due notice to the inhabitants of Valparaiso, in case he intended to bombard the place—a request with which he led Admiral Denman to understand he would not comply, in the event of torpedoes being used. Admiral Denman then appears to have threatened that if fire was opened on the town without due notice, thus endangering the lives of British subjects and others, he would interfere and stop the proceedings of the Spanish fleet. That, it would be seen, was a very different thing from declaring that he would, under any circumstances, prevent the bombardment of Valparaiso. But the President of the Chilean Government gave up the idea of using torpedoes, and
 979 ultimatum. 980 981 982 983 to
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : I depend entirely on telegrams for my information, which state that all the infected cattle have been killed.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : I have no doubt that we shall have very soon a detailed account from Professor Ferguson, who is very competent to report on the subject. As I have mentioned he was sent down to examine the cases, and it is probable that he must know more about the matter than anyone else; but should anything else be wanted to clear up the origin of the disease in Ireland, means shall be taken to procure additional information without delay. I am not prepared to answer the question of the hon Member for Beaumaris (Mr. Owen Stanley) at present.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Sir, in answer to my hon. Friend, I have to say that I am afraid it is too true that there is great reason to believe the cattle plague has at last made its appearance in Ireland. From information which we have derived through telegram it appears that Professor Ferguson—whose services have been employed for many months in investigating suspicious cases in many parts of Ireland—reported in the course of yesterday, by letter to the Irish Government, that there were cases in the county of Down, at a place within about six miles of Belfast, which, in his opinion, were cases of cattle plague. It is supposed that the disease was brought over to Ireland by an English dealer who went there to purchase young stock. The most prompt measures were taken in the course of yesterday. The full powers of the Act lately passed were brought into force. A boundary was marked out, within which the infected district was enclosed; and the lands so cut off are closely watched by the police to prevent egress or ingress. The infected cattle were at once slaughtered and buried. Within the last half hour I, in the absence from London of my noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, sent over a telegram on the subject; and measures are being taken by the Privy Council to prevent the holding of all the fairs and markets which were about to have been held within some miles of the place where the disease has appeared. Everything, therefore, has been done which the law allowed us to do; so that I hope the disease may be stamped out in the locality where it has made its appearance.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he confessed he had heard with considerable surprise his hon. Friend who had just spoken (The O'Conor Don) throw doubt on the good results of the system of National Education in Ireland. He seemed to treat it as a commonplace, scarcely worthy of being mentioned in debate, that the House had before it, in dealing with the present subject, a great existing scheme of popular education. For his own part, he must admit that he never listened to able and ingenious criticisms such as those which he had heard that evening—and he was far from saying that there was not considerable force in some of the observations which had been made—without having before his mind that which he regarded as one of the most important facts which could, under the circumstances, be kept in view, and that was that the House was not asked to deal with the problematical case of a system of education to be established, but with a system of primary popular education which flourished at the present moment, and which embraced within the schools connected with it in Ireland—he spoke of the ordinary primary schools as distinct from the model and all other schools—a number of children on the rolls not far
 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 propria mot 1009 1010
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Attorney General, Whether he is aware that the printing of the Specifications of Patents is often many months in arrear; and whether, both in the interests of the public and of the patentees, such Specifications ought not to be printed as soon as possible after the patentee has deposited his complete Specification?
 MR. CARDWELL , in moving for leave to bring in the Bill of which he had given notice for removing doubts as to the effect of Letters Patent granted to certain Colonial Bishops, and to amend the law with respect to Bishop and Clergy in the Colonies, said, it was well known to the House that by a recent very important decision the Privy Council had arrived at the conclusion that while in Crown Colonies a bishopric might be created and ecclesiastical jurisdiction conferred by the sole authority of the Crown, yet letters patent would not have any such authority in any colony which was in possession of an independent Legislature. That decision had removed the foundation on which the great majority of the colonial dioceses rested. They were therefore driven to this alternative—either they must restore by statute the foundation which that judgment had withdrawn, or they must take the other side of the alternative and accept the decision of the Courts and remove those statutory enactments which, having been formed on the opposite hypothesis, were inconsistent with what the Courts had now declared to be law. In that state of things they had to consider what was the position of the Church in the Colonies. In Canada, Victoria, South Australia, and New Zealand, the Church exercised its powers by voluntary arrangements, either by mere force of compact or by compact confirmed by the Colonial Legislatures; but the authority which had been supposed to he vested in the Crown in respect of the Church in the Colonies did not, according to the decision of the highest Court of Appeal, exist in any Colony possessing an independent Legislature. This being the established state of the law, the Government thought it their duty to consider which branch of the alternative they ought to adopt. They arrived at the conclusion that it would not he consistent either with the will of Parliament or with the modern policy this country had adopted towards the Colonies to attempt to re-establish by Imperial legislation that power which formerly had been supposed to be vested in the Crown, but which had been recently
 1033 1034
 MR. SYNAN  said, that the great grievance of which the right hon. and learned Member for the University of Dublin (Mr. Whiteside) seemed to complain of was, that the National Board would not accept the terms of the Kildare Street Society, or, in other words, would not help that body to
 1029
 MR. SANDFORD  asked the Vice President of the Privy Council, What precautionary measures Her Majesty's Government have taken against the spread of cholera? He knew that it was the fashion in this country to deny the effect of quarantine; but in reply to that he would point to the case of Sicily, which, though the cholera was raging all over the basin of the Mediterranean, had enjoyed an absolute exemption from the scourge by means of the stringent quarantine regulations they had adopted. The kingdom of Greece had also enjoyed the same immunity through the same means; and therefore he thought they would agree that this was a considerable evidence in favour of the system. He might be told that the operation of quarantine would be detrimental to commerce. Of course it would; but he thought that even the claims of commerce ought to give way when human life was at stake. From all he heard—and he derived his information from the public journals—it would appear from the state of Liverpool, either that there was a great defect in the law or a defect in the arrangements for putting the law in force. It appeared that a vessel
 987 Helvetia
 MR. WHALLEY  felt it would be impossible for him at that late hour to bring forward the Motion of which he had given notice. He should, therefore, postpone it till Friday next on going into Committee of Supply.
 MR. WHALLEY  hoped that means would be taken to uphold the supremacy of the Crown in the Colonies.
 MR. CHILDERS  replied, that by a grant of Edward III. to the Black Prince what were called the Waters of Dartmouth were given to the Duchy of Cornwall, and under that grant the Duchy claimed certain rights not only in the Port of Dartmouth, but on certain portions of the coast of Devonshire. After the grant of a portion of the foreshore, some years ago, those rights became the subject of inquiry, and an arrangement had been made as between the Crown and the Duchy of Cornwall, but in no way prejudicing or confirming the rights of the Crown and of the Duchy as against private persons. When goods were landed from wrecks for consumption they paid the dues, but when they were landed for re-shipment those dues, though legally claimable, had not been exacted.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  said, it was a matter entirely within the province of the Commissioners to alter or modify their rules. That required no action on the part of the Government. Any changes necessarily affecting the system would be brought before the House before they were carried into effect.
 MR. STANSFELD , in reply, said, the Madras Irrigation Company started with a guaranteed capital of £1,000,000, and after effecting certain works they proposed to raise from the public some unguaranteed capital. From the state of the money-market, however, they were not able to raise the unguaranteed capital, and they applied to the Secretary of State for as-
 963
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the Motion which had been made by the hon. Member for Longford (Mr. O'Reilly) had been brought forward with great temper and ability; but the defect of his speech and Motion was that he left wholly untouched an important part of the inquiry—namely, the secular part of the system. That question the hon. Gentleman had judiciously and wisely for the present left wholly in the back ground. The subject of education had received the attention of all good and wise men in this country some time back. The hon. Gentleman had professed to give a short account of the mode in which education was conducted in Ireland, Nothing could be worse, and in that all were agreed, than the hedge schools which prevailed in Ireland at the end of the last century. Shortly after the rebellion of 1798 an attempt was made, and very successfully, by the Church to which he belonged to remedy this state of things by establishing a system of Sunday-school teaching. Subsequently a better and larger experiment was made by a body which was known as "the Kildare Place Society," and which the hon. and gallant Gentleman might have stated met at first with the entire approval of his Church. The hon. and gallant Gentleman ought to have recollected that Mr. O'Connell attended at the Society and approved its principles—principles upon which it still rested, for he stated—and his speech was preserved by the Society, and hon. Gentlemen would do well to read it—that the system was a tolerant one, and that it would enable Christians of all denominations, particularly Roman Catholics and Protestants in Ireland, to meet in the same school upon the common ground of reading the Scriptures. The Douay version—and a very good version it was—was that which the Roman Catholic pupils were permitted to read. Well, 200,000 children attended
 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016 1017 s. d.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, that before quitting this painful subject, he would venture to make an observation upon the statement which had just been made by the Under Secretary of State, who had endeavoured to vindicate everybody but the British merchants. He understood that a representation had been made by those merchants to the Government with regard to the destruction of their property during the bombardment of Valparaiso, and if that were so, he trusted that the hon. Gentleman would produce the papers bearing on that point, for they appeared to have been the principal sufferers. He would now ask one question for his own information—namely, whether, when a British fleet was before such a town as that described by the Under Secretary of State, containing both British subjects and British property, and a Spanish fleet were to come, and, acting under instructions such as those which had been vaguely described, its commander were to request the British Admiral to sheer off in order that he might bombard this unoffending and defenceless town, it was, as a matter of course, the duty of the British Admiral thus to sheer off, and, after watching the operations, land his sailors, not after the manner of Nelson, but to extinguish the flames by water?
 MR. TREEBY  said, he would beg to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether there is any objection to increase the time for Students to study in the National Gallery from two (as at present allowed) to four days in the week; should it be considered that the students studying on days when the Exhibition is open to the public that it would interfere with the convenience of the public, whether he would object to request the architects for the new National Gallery to provide accommodation for the students during the time the establishment was open to the public?
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for India, If it be true, as stated in  The Times
 MR. GRAVES  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether it is his intention to cause an inquiry to be made into the recent destruction of the steamer  European, European;
 MR. GRAVES  thought it rather unfortunate that this discussion should have arisen before instead of after the explanation to be given by the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs. In discussing the question under the existing circumstances, the hon. Member for South Devon (Sir Lawrence Palk) and those who maintained his position could scarcely avoid trenching on the professional reputation of a British Admiral, although he would undertake to assert that Admiral Denman had done nothing inconsistent with his orders or with his honour as a British sailor. The wanton attack which had been made upon a defenceless town had caused a general outburst of indignation throughout the civilized world; and, although in the strict letter of International Law they might have had no right to interfere to prevent the action, it was only right that the public opinion should be expressed by means of that House on what he considered was at least a very serious departure from the modern usage of civilized warfare. It would be recollected that when the Spanish Admiral first entered the harbour with his fleet he took exception to some pieces of ordnance that were placed on the ramparts of the forts as threatening his fleet and required that they should be withdrawn. The British Minister advised that they should be withdrawn, and from that moment the city had been left without even the semblance of defence. The next step taken they had heard that night; and if it were true that the British Admiral and Minister had promised to prevent the bombardment by force and had then retracted that promise, although urged to its performance by the American Commodore, the British residents at Valparaiso had good cause to complain. The result was a most fearful destruction of British and neutral property which had been permitted to remain in the bonded warehouses of the city until so late a period that they could
 973 974
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : Sir, it is not intended to institute an inquiry into the destruction of the  European
 MR. GREGORY : I rise, Sir, to ask my right hon. Friend the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he has received any information of the appearance of the cattle plague in the County of Down; and, if so, whether Her Majesty's Government have determined on adopting the most prompt and stringent measures to isolate and stamp out the disease there; and, whether it is the intention of the Government to institute forthwith an inquiry into the origin of the appearance of the disease in-Ireland?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he was surprised at the first objection raised by so good a Liberal as Mr. Fortescue, to the proposal of Mr. O'Reilly. The right hon. Gen-
 1018 par excellence 1019 "That the school should be kept open for a certain number of hours on four or five days of the week for moral and literary instruction only, and that the remaining one or two days in the week be set apart for giving separately such religious instruction to the children as may be approved of by the clergy of their respective persuasions." 1020 "I regret that in so large a portion of the schools support has been given to the arguments of those opposed to them,"(namely, Protestants,)"and that, in fact, in the great bulk of the schools, contrary to the intention of those who originally proposed the system, there is not only no religious instruction given, but no facilities even for separate religious instruction by the ministers of different persuasions out of school hours." 1021 "Clothing was supplied, but breakfast, dinner, and supper was denied to those who absented themselves from religious instruction, illness alone being considered a sufficient apology for absence." "The Board has ever since their establishment laboured under the difficulty entailed on them by Lord Stanley's letter. Public opinion and experience have led them to a gradual though un-avowed and incomplete correction of the original letter for which they have not obtained due credit." "I counsel you to connect your schools with a system which has achieved its present form through a course of silent changes." 1022 "In my schools there are Roman Catholics receiving a greater amount of Scriptural education through the means of the secular books of the National Board and the Scripture lessons, than in any Church Education School that I know. This is my deliberate conviction. I think the principles of the National Board are the principles of the Reformation." "I say that in the compact to have those points taught in schools upon which Protestants and Romanists agree, the Protestant has decidedly the advantage, and the patron can teach Protestantism to every child in the schools. I am of opinion that the patron might even pledge himself underhand, and state that he will let Romanism alone during certain hours of the day, so far as refraining from controversial teaching can be considered as letting Romanism alone; but, in my judgment, if a Christian Minister educates Roman Catholic children on the points upon which Protestants and Catholics are agreed, which he may I do, at all hours, he is very far from letting Romanism alone." 1023 "Whenever Protestant children attend let them not share in the duties of prayer or religious instruction unless at their own desire, sanctioned expressly by their parents; and when the number of such children shall be at all considerable the committee, if required, shall afford time and place for religious instruction being imparted to them by a person of their own communion, and in the manner prescribed by their own pastors." 1024 "If I am to consider what are the means by which the nationality of a church is to be asserted, I say, in the first place, it is hardly necessary to affirm that the church should educate the people." "It seems an anomaly that a man who desires to found a school in which the children should be educated in the principles of their religious faith, should from that very fact be denied all State assistance. In England it is different—religious instruction is interwoven with the whole system of education. That which in England is made an indispensable condition of assistance, is treated in Ireland as a disqualification. The system which England has deliberately chosen as the best for her own people is denied to
Ireland, or rather in Ireland is reversed. In a united kingdom religious freedom in education is regarded as a privi-
 1025 "Such a system is just as destructive of all hearty earnestness. What nun can really feel her interest in her school not abated when she dares not speak at all times to her favourite pupil of the subjects that are most to her heart? What Protestant clergyman will be as zealous in his visits to a school in which if a boy asked him a question outside the house of religious instruction he must take care that his answer is one which will not appeal to any Protestant feeling in his heart." 1026 vice versd. 1027 1028 "It would appear as if Holland and Ireland were on a par as regards the system of National education. Intended to reconcile both religions to a common system, that introduced may be said to have obtained their united disapprobation; and while we behold in Prussia a success almost incredible, after witnessing the results of other efforts for a like purpose, it is impossible not to be forced to the conclusion that any purely secular system would infallibly excite the hostility of those who wish their children to be brought up and instructed in the tenets of the faith which they themselves profess."
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council, Whether he is aware of the extreme danger to the health of the community arising from the neglect of sanitary precautions on the part of Emigration Agents and Contractors; and, whether Her Majesty's Government are prepared to take steps to oblige agents and contractors to provide suitable accommodation for all passengers landed by them at any British Port?
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, he hoped they would receive from the Government a distinct intimation of the mode in which the question was to be dealt with,
 1032
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  said, he under-
 1030
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he rose to ask the Question of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs which he had postponed yesterday at the request of his hon. Friend, relating to the bombardment of Valparaiso, which was a wholly defenceless city, having no arsenal, no fortress, no guns, nor soldiers of any sort or kind. The few guns it had possessed for saluting purposes had been, if his information was correct, taken from the battery at the request of the British Minister—that Minister and the British Admiral undertaking to British residents, and also to the inhabitants of the city, that no bombardment should take place. It seemed to him that it was al-
 966 967
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If any arrangement has been made between the Crown and the Duchy of Cornwall for defining their respective rights to the foreshores of South Devon, and their respective jurisdictions; and, if so, whether he will state the nature of such arrangements; and, whether it it true the Duchy have claimed Petty Customs on some of the goods in vessels recently wrecked at Broadsands, as if they had been regularly imported?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  stated, in reply, that the printed Report had been ordered to be delivered to every Member of the House, and he hoped that in the course of a few days it would be in their hands. No evidence was taken. It was not the Report of a Commission; it was only the Report of the Veterinary Department.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that in consequence of the representations received from the municipal authorities of Edinburgh and Leith during the last year or two, the quantity of powder stored in Edinburgh Castle and Leith Fort had been considerably reduced. In Edinburgh Castle the quantity of gunpowder stored, with the exception of the small arms ammunition, which was much less liable to explosion than gunpowder in barrels, was exceedingly small. At Leith Fort it had not been found practicable to reduce the quantity to so great an extent; but it had been greatly reduced during the last two years. He had received Reports from the Officers of the Department with reference to the selection of other sites for the erection of magazines; but, inasmuch as the preparations for the erection of such buildings would occupy a considerable time, the matter had not been finally decided upon, pending the inquiries that were being made in reference to making gunpowder storage more safe. But if those inquiries had no successful result, he hoped that next year they would be able to recommend the erection of a new magazine.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, it may be convenient that in answering the questions of the two hon. Members who have just addressed the House I should combine them together, as they are so nearly akin. In the first place,
 1051 primâ facie 1052 1053
 MR. HERBERT  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether he has been informed that the Cattle Plague had been introduced into Ireland by a drover from England; and, if so, whether the Government is prepared to forbid English drovers entering Ireland during the continuance of the plague in this country?
 LORD NAAS , in moving the Amendment of which he had given notice—
 "That this House, though desirous of simplifying the method of securing to tenants com-
 1054 1055 1056 1057 bonâ fide 1058 "A Bill that does not give security of tenure is worth no more than the value of the paper upon which it is written. Hitherto it has been held that security of tenure can only be attained by an enactment such as I have suggested in my letter to Mr. M'Swiney, or by making the granting of leases compulsory, or by a compensation Bill of a retrospective character, which would give the tenants such claims for compensation upon their landlords as would render eviction, if not impossible, at all events very difficult, and thus indirectly establish the right of the occupier to dwell upon the soil." 1059 1060 1061 ad infinitum "No tenant shall be entitled to compensation under this Act in respect of any improvements which the owner might have compelled him to make, or restrained him from making, in pursuance of any contract in writing regulating the terms of the tenancy." 1062 1063 1064 1065 £7 s s £5 s 1066 "The hon. Member said that, in his opinion, the veto of the landlord ought not to be sufficient to prevent the tenant from making unauthorized improvements upon the property of the landlord, but that some tribunal should be created which should determine as between landlord and tenant what changes the tenant—for I will not adopt the word 'improvements' for they may not be improvements—may make upon the landlord's property, and what should be the conditions of rent and of period of occupation which the tenant should be liable to and have a right to with regard to the landlord. Now, it seems to me that an arrangement of that kind would violate the fundamental principles of justice."—[3  Hansard, "I wish to express my individual opinion that, by whatever name it may be called, compulsory compensation for improvements effected against the will of the landlord is not a principle which is consistent with the rights of property."—[3  Hansard, 1067 1068
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would not be possible to close the debate that evening—["Oh !" and ironical cheering.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that as there was no hope that the debate could be resumed tomorrow night, and as it would be inconvenient to Irish Members to fix the Bill for Thursday next, the first night that the House would reassemble after the holydays, he proposed to name Monday week for the renewal of the discussion, with the view of then stating definitively when it would be again brought on.
 MR. HUBBARD , who had given notice to move as an Amendment on the Motion for the second rending—
 "That it is inexpedient to retain, as part of the Inland Revenue for the service of the year, the present Duties on Fire and Marine Insurances, which are unjust in their incidence on property, and injurious to the national industry,"
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had already postponed this important Bill several times to suit the convenience of the hon. Gentleman. The Motion was just as applicable, and could be as well discussed on the Motion for going into Committee as now. He hoped the hon. Gentleman would allow the Bill to proceed.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he was in the hands of the House. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer was in error when he said he had postponed the Bill on several occasions to suit his (Mr. Hubbard's) convenience. It was he who had postponed his Motion to suit the convenience of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. There was no necessity for so much hurry with the Bill. His Motion was germane to the Bill, and this stage was the most fitting time for bringing it forward.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  confessed it was with some surprise he heard these Motions. The question was simply one of public convenience. On Monday week they were to return to a subject which they must expect to occupy all their available hours as long as it might remain under discussion in Committee. It was necessary, therefore, to get forward the other business; and, as this Bill contained no proposition that seemed to be objectionable to the House, he hoped his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) would be content with the offer he had made him, and would use his interest to have the Motion for the adjournment of the House withdrawn.
 MR. W. E. DUNCOMBE  protested against pressing this Bill forward with such undue haste. Fuller opportunity ought to be given for the discussion of such an important constitutional change before the Bill was read a second time. He was surprised that the Chancellor of the Exche-
 1128
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that the object of this Bill simply was to carry out certain Resolutions as to the Customs, which had been agreed to without opposition, and also to enable the collectors of income tax to resume the collection of that impost, six weeks having elapsed since the Act under which it had been collected had expired.
 MR. DISRAELI  said, he desired as much as he could consistently to assist the Government: but he must say the House had been placed in a very difficult position with regard to the conduct of business, and he did not think that any hon. Gentleman, and particularly one with the standing of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard), on matters of that kind should be deprived of his legitimate opportunities of raising a discussion. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had thought fit—and he did not at all quarrel with his conduct in that respect—to include all his financial measures in one Bill. No doubt the right hon. Gentleman had taken that course after grave consideration; but it was a course attended, nevertheless, with considerable inconvenience, reducing as it did the opportunities offered to hon. Members of criticizing, or of opposing, if necessary, the measures of the Government. That was one reason why he thought the wish of his hon. Friend the Member for Buckingham should be acceded to by the Government. But another reason was the embarrassing position in which the House found itself at the present moment as the result of the general conduct of business during the last week or two. His hon.
 1129 1130
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he had no choice but to con-Bent to postpone the Bill if the Motion for the adjournment of the House were withdrawn.
 MR. ESMONDE , repudiating on the part of landowners an assertion which had been made, said, he did not believe any landlord, who had his own interest at heart and any sense of propriety, would eject a tenant for making improvements or would take possession without paying adequately for them. In 1845, alter the Report of the Devon Commission, a Bill was introduced by the noble Lord who was then Secretary for the Colonies (Lord Stanley), and who was more looked up to by hon. Members opposite than by himself; and the object of that Bill was to provide for compensation to tenants, in case of their being dispossessed of their holdings, for improvements they might have made. In supporting that Bill the Earl of Devon said that improvements in Ireland meant things that were considered absolutely necessary in England; and Lord Stanley
 1123
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, he was sorry that he could afford the House no further information respecting the cattle plague in Ireland. He had, however, learnt, and the news was satisfactory as far it went, from a gentleman who had left the neighbourhood where the disease broke out, on the previous day, that no additional case had occurred. The hon. Gentleman might be sure that the Government would put in force the full powers granted to them by law, but he could not for the moment give any definite answer to the question of the hon. Gentleman.
 MR. READ  said, he believed that he was the only Member of the House who derived his income entirely from the occupation of land, and it would naturally be assumed, therefore, that his sympathies were with the tenant farmers. He was rejoiced to hear that there was to be a just and generous measure introduced, which was to settle the grievances and the wrongs of the Irish tenantry. He could claim no personal knowledge of the agriculture of Ireland, but having in his younger days passed a few years in South Wales, with a soil and climate similar to Ireland, he knew something about reclaiming bogs, the cultivation of hill sides, building stone walls, and constructing rude farm buildings. He understood that what was called tenant-right in England—namely, compensation for the expenditure of artificial food and manures, and the application of lime, chalk, clay, and mineral manure—was not applicable to Ireland, and these being only transient improvements were generally paid cheerfully by the incoming tenant, required no notice from either party, and were seldom objected to by the landlord. 1106 s. s. 1107 1108
 MR. SAUNDERSON  said, that so far as he could see the Irish landlords would have a guarantee in the 29th clause of the Bill, which would prevent them from suffering any loss from its operation. That clause would enable landlords to enter into contracts with their tenants that certain things should not be done which might be considered prejudicial to the property. Objections had been made to the proposed legislation on the ground that it was different from what had been adopted for England. No doubt if the laws of England were the same as in Ireland there would be no room for those who represented Ireland to claim any exceptional legislation. But this objection vanished when it was considered that the condition of the two countries had in the course of centuries become entirely different, and that the beneficial legislation that had made England what it was had not extended to Ireland. It was in consequence of the exceptional legislation which had taken place to the advantage of England that this Bill had become necessary. He did not believe
 1109
 MR. SYNAN : I rise to address the House upon this most important question, with mingled feelings of regret and anxiety—regret that opposition should be offered in this House to this Bill, by some of the persons who, in my opinion, ought to be first to accept the present Bill as a settlement of the question—I mean some of the landed proprietors—and anxiety at the consequences in Ireland of the disappointment of the people's hopes if this Bill be rejected. It appears to me that this Bill is opposed on grounds totally untenable,
 1115 1116 instrumenta "Some means ought to be adopted consistent with the rights of property, to relieve the large class of persons, who had, many of them, laid out their capital on bad titles." 1117 1118 History of the Penal Laws 1119 The Munster News, "So far from there being no capital in Ireland to be laid out under this Bill, there is more capital in Ireland than they know what to do with." usque nauseam 1120 1121
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he is aware that the Directors of the Bank of England have declined to make advances upon the lodgment of Government Securities, on the ground that they ought to be realized; and whether he considered the Directors have complied with the expressed understanding that they, on getting permission to increase the issue of Bank Notes, were to afford accommodation to Bankers and Merchants?
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR IRELAND (Mr. LAWSON)  regretted that the noble Lord (Lord Naas) should not have found it consistent with his duty to permit the Bill to be read a second time; but that instead of doing so he should have thought proper to interpose the Resolution he had just moved. It was not his office to defend the general policy of the Government with regard to Ireland, but with regard to the last observation of the noble Lord, he begged to inform him that, so far from the present measure having been brought in with a view to affect the approaching critical division, the right hon. Gentleman the Chief Secretary for Ireland, immediately after he took office, had entered into consultation with him (the Attorney General) with respect to introducing a measure on this subject, and the present Bill was the result. The general policy of the Government towards Ireland he left to stand upon its own merits, as he was assured that the just and liberal principles upon which it was founded would meet with the general approval of the House and the country. The noble Lord had stated that he had no objection to the principle of compensation to tenants for improvements effected by them,
 1069 1070 "Grant of a lease of thirty-one years or upwards to be in lieu of all claims for compensation." "And if any owner having power to make a lease for thirty-one or any greater number of years shall notify in writing to the tenant that he is willing to make to him a lease for the term of thirty-one or any greater number of years of his farm or holding, at the rent at which the same is then held, with the ordinary covenants between landlord and tenant, and if within three months after such notice the tenant shall not state to the landlord in writing his willingness to accept such lease, he shall be debarred from making any claim for improvements either then or afterwards made by him on his farm or holding." 1071 1072 "It is well known that in England and Scotland, before a landlord offers a farm for letting, he finds it necessary to provide a suitable farmhouse, with necessary farm buildings, for the proper management of the farm. He puts the gates and fences into good order, and he also takes upon himself a great part of the burden of keeping the buildings in repair during the term; and the rent is fixed with reference to this state of things. Such, at least, is generally the case although special contracts may occasionally be made, varying the arrangements between landlord and tenant. In Ireland the case is wholly different. The smallness of the farms as they are usually let, together with other circumstances to which it is not necessary to advert, render the introduction of the English system extremely difficult, and in many oases impracticable. It is admitted on all hands that according to the general practice in Ireland, the landlord builds neither dwelling-house nor farm offices, nor puts fences, gates, &c, into good order, before he lets his land to a tenant. The cases in which a landlord does any of those things are the exceptions. The system, however, of giving aid in these matters is becoming more prevalent." 1073 sic vos non vobis 1074 quicquid plantalur solo, solo cœdet, 1075 1076
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, his right hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had characterized the Bill as a measure which was calculated to do no injury to the landlord, while it conferred every conceivable benefit upon the tenant, and at the same time he maintained that it was a Bill which was generally called for. He (Mr. Whiteside) challenged both statements, and asserted that it would injure the landlord and do no good to the tenant, while at the same time it was not asked for by the tenant farmers as a class. As far as the tenantry of Ulster were concerned, he believed that nothing would more excite their indignation than any measure of this kind, because they knew that it would set aside that ancient custorn under which they had prospered. He concurred with the hon. Gentleman who last spoke (Mr. Saunderson) in saying that the tenantry of Ireland were at present contented; he would go further and say he believed them to he prosperous. He denied that they were a wretched, ill-governed, down-trodden people, as the hon. Member for Westminster (Mr. Stuart Mill) had characterized them. The tenantry of Ireland were, he believed, in a higher state of prosperity than they had been for many years passed. They did not want this Bill, and everybody in the North of Ireland knew that it would be accepted with disfavour in that country. Much had been said of the Bill introduced
 1110 1111 1112 "The Committee having examined several witnesses on the recommendation of the promoters of the inquiry are of opinion that the principle of the Act of 1860, embodying the 38th and 40th sections—namely, that compensation to tenants should only be secured upon improvements made with the consent of the landlord, should be maintained." 1113 "To these long leases, which were common in that part of Ireland, I attribute to a great extent the false position in which the landlord and tenant stand." 1114
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If it is true that the Bank of England has refused to make advances on Consols, and has otherwise neglected to give to Merchants, Bankers, and others, the accommodation not only implied, but expressed, when they obtained power to increase their issue of notes?
 MR. BAGWELL  rose to address the House, but was met by such loud and repeated cries of "Divide! Divide!" that he desisted, and was understood to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. SPEAKER : The hon. Member is not in order in quoting in this House a speech made in the other House during the present Session.
 MR. DILLON  said, that he would not make any quotation from the speech to which he had referred, but probably the noble Lord's words would be in the recollection of the Members of the House. Nothing could be more strong than the observations made by the noble Lord respecting the connection between the discontent in Ireland and the relations between landlord and tenant, and the necessity for such a change in the law as the Bill con-
 1099 "Be it enacted that if any tenant, or those under whom he derives, shall, before the passing of this Act, have executed improvements in the holding, of the nature contemplated by the Act, and if the landlord for the time being shall proceed by any process of law against such tenant for the purpose of evicting and shall evict his interest in the holding otherwise than for non-payment of rent or breach of covenant, such tenant may re-
 1100 bonâ fide "Confine a man to momentary possession and you at once cut off that laudable avarice which every wise State has cherished as one of the first principles of its greatness. Allow a man but a temporary possession; lay it down as a maxim that he never can have any other, and you immediately and infallibly turn him to temporary enjoyments; and these enjoyments are never the pleasures of labour and free industry whose quality it is to famish the present hour, and to squander all upon prospect and futurity. They are, on the contrary, those of a thoughtless, loitering, and dissipated life." Political Economy "Almost alone among mankind, the Irish cottier is in this condition, that he can scarcely be either better or worse off by any act of his own. If he was industrious or prudent, nobody but his landlord would gain; if he is lazy or intemperate, it is at his landlord's expense. A situation more devoid of motives to either labour or self-command, imagination itself cannot conceive. The inducements of free human beings are taken away and those of a slave not substituted. He has nothing to hope and nothing to fear, except being dispossessed of his holding, and
 1101 insouciance 1102
 MR. DILLON  said, the first duty of an Irish Member, rising after such a speech as they had just listened to, must be to thank the speaker for the generous sentiments he had expressed. He (Mr. Dillon) could only wish in addition that such sentiments could be acted on for ten years in legislating for Ireland; for he was sure that at the end of such a beneficent course the relations of the two countries would be very materially different. Adverting to subjects touched on in the previous portion of the debate, the hon. Member contended that the principle of compulsory compensation to the tenant of an absentee landlord was not contrary to natural justice. The argument that a system which did not apply to landlords and tenants in England and Scotland should not apply to Ireland, his right hon. Friend the Attorney General for Ireland had already answered, by showing that the state of Ireland was peculiar. In England and Scotland farms were let with improvements made upon them; while all improvements made upon farms in Ireland were made by the occupiers, and not by the landlords. But there was another answer to that argument which he (Mr. Dillon) would take the liberty of mentioning. The responsibility for an exceptional state of things which rendered exceptional legislation necessary, rested entirely upon the Legislature and people of England. The treatment received by Ireland in past times, at the bauds of the English Govern-
 1098
 MR. J. STUART MILL : It was in an auspicious hour for the futurity of Ireland and of the Empire of which Ireland is so important a part, that a British Administration has introduced this Bill into Parliament. I venture to express the opinion that nothing which any Government has yet done, or which any Government has yet attempted to do, for Ireland—not even Catholic Emancipation itself—has shown so true a comprehension of Ireland's real needs, or has aimed so straight at the very heart of Ireland's discontent and of Ireland's misery. It is a fulfilment of the promise held out by the Chancellor of the Exchequer at the beginning of the Session, when, in discharging the painful duty of calling on Parliament to treat Ireland once more—let us hope for the last time—as a disaffected dependency, he declared his purpose, and that of the Government of which he is a Member, to legislate for Ireland according to Irish exigencies, and no longer according to English routine. To have no better guide than routine is not a safe thing in any case; but to make the routine of one country our guide in legislating for another, is a mode of conduct which, unless by a happy accident, cannot lead to good.
 1088 1089 1090 1091 1092 1093 1094 1095 1096 1097
 MR. PIM  said, he was surprised to hear from the noble Lord opposite (Lord Naas) that there was no strong feeling on this subject in Ireland. He held an entirely different opinion; and from his own experience he could say that there was no question, whether real or fanciful, which excited so much feeling in that country. Another topic very much dwelt upon by the noble Lord and those who followed on the same side, was the various extravagant ideas which prevailed in Ireland on the land question. No doubt very extravagant ideas in reference to tenant-right did once prevail in Ireland; but constant ventilation and agitation of the subject had done much to correct opinion; and one of the reasons why he was desirous that this Bill should become law was that he believed it would put an end to those extravagant ideas, coming as it would, backed by the approval of hon. Members who were considered the representatives of the most extreme party in Ireland on the subject of an amendment in respect of the tenure of land. A friend of his, who was a large landed proprietor, had told him he hoped the Bill would pass, because it would satisfy public feeling; and any inconvenience to which he as a landlord might be put, would be amply compensated by the agitation on the subject being put an end to. The whole of the discussion that had taken
 1103 s. s. 1104 1105
 MR. LOWE : Sir, as one of those who joined in the Resolution of the Committee to which the right hon. and learned Gentleman (Mr. Lawson) has alluded—the Resolution—namely, which declared that no compensation for improvements ought to be given except where the improvements had been made with the consent of the landlord, I heard, with most unfeigned astonishment, that this Bill was in accordance with it. Because, let the House consider what the state of the law is now. The Bill of 1860, which was introduced by the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary for the Colonies when Secretary for Ireland, provided a most elaborate machinery for the assessment of the value of improvements; only in the 38th and 40th clauses it provided that no compensation should be paid unless the consent of the landlord had been obtained to the improvements, that is, unless be had full notice and time to dissent and had not done so. That Bill has been in force four years, and now the Government bring forward a Bill which contains a schedule for the repeal of these clauses, which render necessary the consent of the landlord before he can be charged with improvements. Not only so, but my right hon. Friend the Secretary for Ireland, in introducing this Bill, made use of this language. He said, speaking of the Bill of 1860—
 "There was the very great obstacle that in every instance before the improvement could be made notice had to be given by the tenant to the landlord, which would act as an invitation to dissent on the landlord's part, and which, in the unanimous opinion of all acquainted with Irish tenant farmers, had operated and would operate as a total bar to the success of the Act."—[3  Hansard, 1078 1079 Suum cuique tribuito 1080 "Any tenant of lands may make such improvements therein as are mentioned in the 37th section of the Landed Property (Ireland) Improvement Act 1860, and upon the determination of the tenancy by effluxion of time, or by the act of the owner, the tenant shall be entitled, save as hereinafter excepted, by way of compensation for his outlay, to a sum of money, &c." "No tenant shall be entitled to compensation under this Act in respect of any improvements which the owner might have compelled him to make or restrained him from making in pursuance of any contract in writing regulating the terms of the tenancy." "At the same time it was proposed to interfere in no way with the perfect freedom of contract between landlord and tenant; but the Act pro-
 1081 "While they left the landlord and tenant at perfect liberty to regulate their own affairs by written contract, they yet proposed to place the law of the country on the side of natural equity and justice." 1082 "Flagrant instances of injustice on the part of Irish landlords were now and then brought to light; but these, he honestly believed, were the exception and not the rule." pro tanto 1083 1084 1085 1086 1087
 MR. W. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether he expects soon to be able to give a favourable reply to the various memorials which have been sent to the War Office during the last two or three years praying for the removal of the gunpowder stored at Leith Fort and Edinburgh Castle, the quantity in the magazine at the former place being said to amount to one hundred and thirty thousand pounds weight?
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  seconded the Motion.
  SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE , as the representative of a county (Londonderry) in which tenant-right, though not the law of the land, prevailed by custom, thought that this Bill would not give satisfaction in the North of Ireland, where there was at present no limit to the compensation which might be received for improvements, whereas this Bill would be thought to limit their right. He believed that most Irish landlords would be anxious to grant leases if there were persons to whom leases could he properly given; but how could they be expected to grant leases to tenants who
 1122
 SIR JERVOIE JERVOISE  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, When the Copy presented on the origin, propagation, &c, of the Cattle Plague, 27th and 28th April, 1866, will be in the hands of Members?
 MR. BARING  said, that Commodore de Courcey had been superseded in consequence of his own request that he might be removed from his command.
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the Foreign Office has yet received any Despatch from Consul Knox, at Bankok, in reference to a claim of Mr. Burn, and known as the Myloongee Case, and for the production of which notice was given on the 12th of April?
 MR. H. A. BRUCE  said, in reply, that the Government had been informed that the emigrants from the  Helvetia Helvetia
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I hope my hon. Friend will allow me to say that this is a question which opens a very wide field for discussion upon a matter of general policy. It amounts in reality to a question as to whether the entire position of the principal issuing body in this country should be changed, and whether issues and advances should be made on the direct responsibility of the State? This is a question which it is impossible for me to meet or discuss in answer to a simple interrogatory; but I must say that on the principle of the law as it stands, and viewing the position of the Bank of England as essentially that of a commercial establishment, especially as that position has been defined and understood by the Act of 1844, I think it would be quite impossible to deprive the Bank of England of the discretion it is possessed of, and which it exercises with a view of making a greater or less amount of advances either on public securities or mercantile accounts.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Birkenhead, Whether it is true that among a cargo of cattle from Ireland, one of the animals on landing had been pronounced
 1149
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that after what had taken place on the previous night it would be very difficult to find a Government day, the more so as his noble Friend had given notice of a Motion involving the whole principle of the Bill. Under those circumstances he had placed it for Wednesday, the 30th of May, when he hoped they would be able to secure for it a full discussion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise to move that this House will, at its rising, adjourn till Thursday next.
 THE O'CONOR DON  said, the hon. Gentleman the Member for Stockport had censured Her Majesty's Government for not having done something which, in his opinion, they ought to have done. The hon. Member seemed to consider that this Government ought to have dealt directly with the American Government; but it seemed to him (The O'Conor Don) that the fallacy which ran through the whole of the hon. Member's speech was, that he supposed the American Executive Government had the whole management of this question in their own hands. The hon. Gentleman below him had shown that the course adopted by the Government on this occasion was almost precisely the same course that was taken when the first treaty was negotiated, the only difference being that in the first steps of the proceeding a different result was arrived at. He attributed the difficulties which had arisen as to renewing the treaty to the taxation which was imposed by the American Government, in consequence of the Civil War, upon commodities, many of which were included in the treaty. But although in the proposals that were made to the Finance Committee of Congress the provincial deputies proposed to alter their own financial arrangements in many respects in order to meet the views of the United States Government, the Finance Committee insisted upon the imposition in many cases of duties which from their excessive character were in reality little less than prohibitory. It was therefore evident, considering the reasonable nature of the proposals made on behalf of the North American Provinces, that there was no desire on the part of Congress to benefit by reciprocity. The party in America, indeed, who possessed the power to settle
 1176
 SIR JOHN HAY  apologized for interrupting the course of the debate; but as the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer could only speak once, he thought it right to put a question to him about the dockyard voters. There had been a question of a similar character on the paper, but somehow it had dropped out. He wished to know, whether it was the intention of Her Majesty's Government to continue to press forward the clause in the Representation of the People Bill, which proposed to disfranchise the intelligent artizans employed in Her Majesty's dockyards?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that the question of the hon. Baronet had been put to him on a previous occasion, when he replied that, on gene-
 1185 1186 1187
 MR. KINNAIRD  thought that the hon. Member for Stockport, so far from being open to sensure, had rendered a great public service by bringing the subject before the House, particularly when it was remembered that the fishery question was leading to the brink of war, and that some of the finest ships in the American navy had been sent to the coast to watch operations. The question had created a great amount of uneasiness in the public mind, both in this country and in Canada; and, therefore, the information which had been elicited from the Government to the effect that negotiations were going on favourably afforded ground for rejoicing. He should like to know, however, whether the Bonded Acts which were so valuable to our American Colonies were affected by the termination of the treaty, and whether their privileges had been secured to our colonies by any provisional arrangement?
 MR. COWPER  had no objection to lay on the table the instructions issued to the architects, which he believed would give all the information which the hon. and learned Gentleman desired. The hon. and learned Gentleman had again raised the question as to the comparative advantages of unlimited and limited competition; but he must say the opinion generally of those most competent to decide a question of this sort, and entitled to speak with authority, was in favour of the course adopted by the Government—of limited rather than unlimited competition. No doubt there were advantages in each course. The advantage of unlimited competition was that it gave an opportunity to young men of genius or remarkable fertility of talent who were as yet unknown to show what they were able to do. But in a limited competition they had the advantage of securing the works
 1181 1182
 MR. COWPER  was understood to say that it was owing to the very ungenial state of the weather that the turf had not been already re-placed.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, he wished to repeat the question which he had asked on the previous evening as to what day was fixed for the second reading of the Bill for the Abolition of Compulsory Church Rates?
 MR. AYRTON  observed, that the right hon. Gentleman had not made any reply to the proposition of the hon. Member who had last spoken, which he thought deserved consideration; but he wished to call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the position into which the House seemed to be drifting in this matter. They were about to spend an enormous sum of money, which was not to be voted in Supply in the first instance, but was to come out of funds otherwise specially appropriated, and any deficiency would have to be paid out of the National Exchequer. By way of an economical starting they were to pay each of the twelve architects invited to compote £800, or a sum of £9,600 in the whole. Thus £800 would be spent for the best design, and £8,800 for eleven other unsatisfactory and insufficient designs. That was not an economical mode of proceeding. He thought that that expenditure might have been avoided, if the Government had proceeded with a little more consideration in the matter. He believed the Government had now placed the matter in the hands of an irresponsible committee—namely, of gentlemen who did not hold any specific office in relation to the subject-matter. The right hon. Gentleman the First Commissioner of Works, who was the only responsible person, must be in a minority of one, so that practically this was an irresponsible proceeding, and, like all irresponsible proceedings, it did not seem to be carried out with any great forethought. One would have thought when persons were going to embark in a great undertaking like this, they would have asked in the first instance for general designs, giving an idea of the views and objects of the architects; but the committee had required in the first instance the most elaborate designs, for which, of course, the committee were obliged to offer payment. Having committed themselves to that point the committee then found it impracticable to meet the views of those hon. Gentlemen
 1183 1184
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he rose to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying that Her Majesty be graciously pleased to issue a Royal Commission to inquire into the constitution of the Metropolitan Board of Works, the Office of Public Works, and the Office of Woods and Forests, with the object of seeing whether some means may not be devised by which the improvements of the Metropolis may be carried out in a more comprehensive and economical manner, and with greater unity of purpose. He said, that if anything would show the necessity for a full discussion of this subject, it was the debate which had taken place that evening. He believed hon. Members were unanimous in admitting that the present system for the management of metropolitan improvements was extremely defective, whatever difference of opinion might prevail among them with respect to the best mode of remedying the evil. The subject had been brought before the House twice during the present Session; once by the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, and afterwards by the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire. A Committee, which had recently inquired into the Metropolitan Local Management Act, after alluding to the imperfect operation of that measure, expressed their belief that the time had arrived when it was necessary to deal with the subject in a comprehensive and permanent manner. Every Session there were discussions in which every one concurred that nothing was more undesirable than the present state of things, and was it not essential that some
 1195 "Vacillation, uncertainty, costliness, extravagance, meanness, and all the vices that can be enumerated are' united in our present system. The money of the country is wasted; and I believe such are the evils of the system that nothing short of a revolutionary reform will ever bring them to an end." 1196
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  wished, before the question was answered, to throw out a suggestion, which, if adopted, would go far to remove the difficulty which was felt on this matter. He was sorry to say that the present condition of art politics made it excessively difficult to adopt the plan of unlimited competition, which, no doubt, was in itself the best. Besides, the Government must keep their contract with the competing architects; but why not have an extra unlimited competition of unpaid volunteers, not calling on them
 1180 dii majorum gentium
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the despatch purporting to be written by Commodore Rogers which he had read was entirely inconsistent with the official statement forwarded by Admiral Denman. In a day or two all the papers would be laid before the House, and hon. Members would then be able to judge between the two statements. He might also take that opportunity of stating that the conduct of Mr. Thomson, our Minister at Chile, had received the entire approbation of Her Majesty's Government.
 MR. LAYARD  said, his hon. Friend seemed to be in some doubt, when he was on the point of sitting down, whether he had made a charge against Her Majesty's Government. He confessed, however, that he had never heard an indictment of greater severity brought against any Government. The hon. Member had accused Her Majesty's Ministers of all kinds of  laches. 1163 "The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States reports that the total imports into the British provinces from the United States were in 1827, 445,118 dollars, and the exports from those provinces to the United States, 2,830,674 dollars; total trade, 3,275,792 dollars. It is stated by the Select Committee of the Chamber of Commerce of New York, that the whole value of exports and imports between the United States and the British North American Provinces was in 1849 6,000,000 dollars, and had grown slowly up to that amount. We find stated on the same authority—In 1854.—Imports into Canada, 15,583,098 dollars; exports from Canada to the United States, 8,649,002 dollars. In 1855.—Imports, 20,828,676 dollars; exports, 16,737,277dollars. In 1803.—Imports, 23,109,362 dollars, exports, 22,534,074 dollars." 1164 "Looking at the industrial results of the treaty any fair-minded and dispassionate man must admit that they have far surpassed, in utility and value, all that could have been hoped by the most sanguine advocate of the measure in 1854. The trade of the United States and of the provinces, feeble, restricted, slow of growth, and vexatious before, has been annually swelled by mutual exchanges and honourable competition, till it is represented by a grand total of 456,350,391 dollars in about nine years. This amount seems almost incredible, but who can hazard an estimate of the figures by which this trade will be expressed ten or twenty years hence, if this wise adjustment of our mutual interests be not disturbed? If there be any advantage in a balance of trade, the returns show that the citizens of the United States have had it to the extent of 55,951,145 dollars." 1165 "Resolved by the Senate and the House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, that notice be given of the termination of the Reciprocity Treaty, according to the provision therein contained for the termination of the same; and the President of the United States is hereby charged with the communication of such notice to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland." 1166 1167 Alabama 1168 1169
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the only answer he could give his hon. Friend was that negotiations were at that moment going on between the Governments of France, Russia, and this country for the purpose of holding a Congress at Paris. Considering, however, the present state of those negotiations, it would be improper to give any further answer to the question.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that the papers to which the hon. and gallant Member alluded were only received within the last few clays, and were now before the Law Officers of the Crown. When those learned gentlemen had given their opinion upon the case, he should be in a position to give an answer to the question put by the hon, and gallant Member.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to call the attention of Her Ma-
 1150
 MR. READ  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to allow the
 1145
 MR. CARDWELL  thought it scarcely desirable to enter at the present time upon a discussion with respect to the  Alabama; 1178
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he rose to call attention to the Treasury Minute presented a short time since respecting the Records of Great Britain and Ireland. It was a most interesting document, but while it showed how much had been done for England, it also showed how little attention had been given to Ireland. A Commission which sat in 1836 had recommended that the records, memorials, and papers connected with the laws and history of the country should be arranged and published, and the Master of the Rolls stated that there were masses of documents, perhaps unequalled in the civilized world, available as materials for the illustration of the national laws and history, but in their then state these were not available for purposes of reference. He accordingly recommended that they should be arranged and published; and as the clerks in the Record Office were otherwise employed even when qualified, and consequently unequal to such additional duties, he proposed that a certain number of literary men should be engaged to carry out this undertaking. With this object in view the services of some most distinguished men were secured, among others those of Messrs. Duffus Hardy, Bruce, Brewer, Palgrave, Green, and Turnbull, and an immense number of records and papers had since been edited by them. Calendars of the Records and historic papers of the reigns of Henry VIII., Queen Mary, Edward IV., Elizabeth, James, and Charles I. had been edited in England, and many of them had been published. We had many works of a
 1188 1189 1190 The Wars of the Danes in Ireland Chronicon Scotorum 1191 1192
 MR. BENTINCK , in rising to ask a Question with reference to New Courts of Justice, remarked upon the fact that in deference to the opinion of the House the number of architects who would be appointed to compete had been raised from six to twelve, and asserted that one of them was an architect who could under no circumstances be chosen, and that six of the remaining eleven men were pledged to Gothic architecture. He also thought that those architects who had distinguished themselves by designing the handsome buildings erected in the city had a right to complain that they had not been placed upon the list. He urged the still further increase of the number of competing architects to at least twenty-four; but he would much prefer unlimited competition. As the First Commissioner of Works had on a former occasion been understood to agree to the nomination of two architects to act as judges of the competing designs, he (Mr. Bentinck) desired to know their names, and whether they were to have equal voices with their colleagues; in the event of the Government returning an unsatisfactory reply, he should, immediately after the recess, move that three gentlemen of undoubted architectural knowledge and experience be added to the Committee appointed to select the design for the buildings in question. The hon. Member inquired, in conclusion, Whether the conditions of the competition were finally settled, and whether the First Commissioner of Works will present papers to the House describing those conditions, in company with a record of the names of the judges, the names of the competitors, and the time fixed for sending in the designs?
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether the great European Powers have agreed to a Congress for the purpose of taking into consideration the questions of Venetia and Schleswig-Holstein; and whether it is true that in certain contingencies France wishes to commit England to an armed mediation?
 MR. CHILDERS  said, in reply, that the Return alluded to by the hon. Member stated the amounts paid according to the districts, and the particular parishes in each. The reason why the two parishes at Plymouth did not receive any part of the grant referred to was because the
 1148
 MR. CHILDERS  quite sympathized with the hon. and gallant Gentleman as to the very small attendance of hon. Members then in the House. He thought there was only one other Irish Member present besides the hon. and gallant Gentleman himself. He could not state that it was in the power of the Government at the present moment to give any detailed assurance as to what they would be able to do in future years with respect to the Irish Records; but the Minute to which the hon. and gallant General had alluded had answered in a general way this end. With regard to the Return for which the hon. and gallant Member had moved in the last Session, and also in the present one, he could now
 1193 1194
 MR. WHITE  said, that according to the showing of the hon. Member for Stockport, of the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and of every other speaker upon this question, it was quite obvious that there was an ill-feeling in America with reference to England; and that public opinion was so strong with regard to the conduct of England that the President was obliged to give notice that the Reciprocity Treaty would not be renewed. He thought the hon. Member for Stockport deserved the thanks of the House for drawing its attention to our relations with America. The people of America were outraged by the conduct of our Foreign Minister, who would not consent to refer to arbitration what they considered their just claims by the depredations of the  Alabama. Alabama
 MR. WYLD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is expedient that the Directors of the Bank of England should exercise the power they possess by their exclusive privilege of issuing notes to compel the sale of Consols, and thereby depreciate the securities of the State upon which their own issues are mainly founded?
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, By whose orders 200 Emigrants from the  Helvetia 1147
 MR. LAIRD  said, in reply, that the Chairman of the Birkenhead Commissioners had informed him that last Saturday week a cargo of cattle arrived from Ireland and were sold in the Liverpool market on Monday, and some of them were taken to the Birkenhead slaughterhouse on the Tuesday and killed. It was then found that one of them was far gone in the cattle disease, and it was immediately buried. He (Mr. Laird) had promised the Vice President of the Committee of Council that he would ascertain all the facts from the officers of the market, and forward the information to the Privy Council.
 MR. LOCKE  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Why the Turf has been stripped off a space of nearly three acres in Hyde Park, near to the Guards' Barracks, on the north side of the Serpentine; and whether it is intended to replace it?
 MR. OLIPHANT,  having been Secretary to Lord Elgin when he negotiated the Reciprocity Treaty, asked permission to address the House very briefly. In the first place, he desired to bear his testimony to the difficulties which were experienced in the course of the negotiations, and to the diplomatic skill with which they were overcome by that nobleman. The success
 1173 1174 1175
 MR. GRAVES  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If it is his intention to introduce a Bill for regulating the landing, moving, and shipping of glonoin or glycerine oil?
 MR. GRAVES  said, he wished to ask Her Majesty's Government, If it is true-that Commodore de Courcey, who was recently sent to Valparaiso to succeed Commodore Harvey on the Pacific Station, has been superseded; and, if true, whether it is at his own request, and what are the reasons given for relinquishing his command?
 MR. MILNER GIBSON , in reply, said, his Department had been in communication with the authorities of the Customs on this sebject, in order to ascertain whether, under the present state of the law, precaution could not be taken to prevent accidents arising from this oil Immediately after the holidays a Bill would be introduced in reference to this question.
 MR. MORRISON  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Why no part of the amount annually voted in aid of the Local Assessment for the relief of the poor in the Plymouth district, as stated in the Return just presented to Parliament, is paid on account of the Government property in the borough of Plymouth?
 MR. TITE  did not think the number of drawings required of the architect was so great as to interfere with competition. The House and the country were placed in a difficulty, out of which he did not see the way. He believed it would have been better if the competition had been open to the country generally, and he would have been inclined to recommend that course, being fully persuaded that it would have been eminently successful. The expenditure of £800 to be given to each of the architects, he held, was totally unnecessary; any man in a position qualifying him to be one of the twelve would have been delighted to compete, receiving as his recompense the adoption of his designs. It would not now be wise to open up the competition to the whole country; in that event the twelve architects now decided upon would, in all probability, resign. To do so would not be just to those gentlemen who had been urged to join in the competition. With regard to the selection, he would not give any opinion; he would, however, observe that the gothic element seemed largely to prevail among them. There would be considerable competition among twelve, and he believed they had been honourably and honestly selected. As to the judges, the five appointed were men of the greatest eminence.
 MR. WATKIN  rose for the purpose of calling attention to the termination of the Reciprocity Treaty. He said, it was with considerable pain that he felt compelled, although a supporter of Her Majesty's Government, to believe that on one of the most important questions that had claimed the attention of the Foreign Department for years, not only had the action of Her Majesty's Government been characterized by great negligence, but it had also been marked by the absence of that faculty which induced men of business to look ahead. He thought also that the House had not been fairly dealt with, because the information which ought to have been furnished to hon. Members had, he believed, been withheld. Government appeared to forget that while Cabinets were not held in much reverence, how much soever distinguished individual Members of them might be and were, across the Atlantic, the opinion of the House of Commons was invariably regarded with attention and respect. The debates of that House, whenever devoted to the discussion of questions affecting America, were invariably published in full by the American press, and they were universally read and criticized. They influenced public opinion as the expressions of British public opinion; hence it was that, in the absence of all information from the Government, he had venture to invite the House to consider this question, involving, as it did, those relations of commerce and of friendship which men of all parties in that House were anxious to preserve between the great branches of the Anglo-Saxon race. Were any other reason required, he should find a still further excuse for bringing it forward upon the Motion for the adjournment of the House in the news that arrived in this country only the previous day, that a fleet of sixteen vessels, among which were the  Miontonomah Dunberberg 1152 "It appeared to Her Majesty's Government that the return of Lord Elgin to Canada afforded an opportunity which ought not to be neglected of endeavouring to settle those numerous questions which for years past have been embarrassing the two Governments. One of those questions, especially that relating to the fisheries, has given rise to annually increasing causes of contention, and has sometimes threatened collisions, which, I believe, have only been averted for the last two years by the firmness and moderation of Sir George Seymour and the British and American naval commanders, and by that spirit of friendship and forbearance which has always characterized the officers of both navies. But my Lords, your Lordships are aware that there are other questions which have given rise to embarrassing discussion between the Governments of the two countries—questions which involve the commercial relations of our North American possessions with the United States, and that those questions which involve very divergent interests, have become so complicated as to render their solution a matter of extreme difficulty."—[3  Hansard "I trust, therefore, that nothing will occur to mar the completion of this great work which, I firmly believe, more than any other event of recent times, will contribute to remove all differences between two countries whose similarity of language and affinity of race, whose enterprize and industry ought to unite them in the bonds of cordial friendship and to perpetuate feelings of mutual confidence and good will."—[3  Hansard "He was afraid that, if we had to consult the colonies with respect to a treaty with a foreign country, the effect would be that on such questions the colonies would be independent."—[3  Hansard 1153 1154 "The project of your convention gives me great pleasure. I hope it will lead to a renewal of commercial intercourse with the British North American provinces, for it will be a miserable thing if, because they are in connection with the British Crown, and you acknowledge as your Chief Magistrate your President at Washington, there should not be a commercial intercourse between them and you, as tree as if you were one people, living under one Government." 1155 "The welfare and prosperity of the neighbouring British provinces are as sincerely desired on its part (the United States) as they can be by Great Britain. In a practical sense, they are sources of wealth and influence for the one country only in a less degree than for the other, though the jurisdiction appertain only to the latter. That this is the sincere conviction of my Government has been proved by its consent to enter into
 1156 1157 1158 1159 "He did not believe there would have been thirty votes obtained in this House last year for the abrogation of the Reciprocity Treaty with Canada; but on the explicit understanding that some sort of reciprocity in trade would be forthwith reestablished, either through the treaty-making power, or through the legislative power of the Government, he had voted for its abrogation under a high sense of duty. The people of the United States were ground down by the internal revenue taxation, and he had not felt at liberty to let the Reciprocity Treaty stand, without being at liberty to make some sort of bargain with the people of Canada, that whatever our internal revenues might be, the same would be levied, either by them or by us, on our imports from them." 1160 "I believe I express the general feeling of those who are the most friendly to the United States, in Canada, when I say that it is not the policy of our Government, or our policy, to continue this treaty, and I believe that in two years from the abrogation of the Reciprocity Treaty the people of Canada themselves will apply for admission to the United States." "And if, as an inducement for this treaty, and in settlement of  Alabama 1161 A laugh. vice versa 1162
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  also thought twelve architects too few to admit to competition, when it was remembered how many able architects England possessed; and he thought there would be great advantage in admitting unlimited competition, for it might be that the best man of all was one as yet unknown to fame, and that if the opportunity were afforded him his talent would be made known, so that the country might have the benefit of it. If the Government did not choose to adopt the plan of unlimited competition, he
 1179
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply, that the present opinion of Her Majesty's Government was, that it would be inexpedient to make any alterations in the Order of the Privy Council, which would expire on the 1st of June, imposing restrictions upon the open sales of cattle at fairs and markets, and therefore they pro posed to renew that Order not for a specified time, but until any other Order should be made in reference to this subject. Re presentations had reached him from three counties in Wales, alleged to be entirely free from cattle plague, and from the towns of Liverpool and Wolverhampton, praying for some relaxation of the restrictions now in force. In the first case, it was alleged that it was difficult to get people to go up to the various farms to purchase cattle, and under the circumstances their request had been complied with, that certain fairs should be held, power being reserved to the Privy Council to re-establish restrictions at any time they thought fit. In the cases of Liverpool and Wolverhampton the representations were founded upon the apprehension that it would be impossible to carry out the present system during the heat of summer, because, in addition to other inconveniences, the slaughter of so many cattle in one place might injuriously affect the health of the inhabitants of those towns. The Privy Council had given directions that inquiries be made on the subject of these latter representations, and had postponed coming to any decision upon the question until they had obtained the requisite information.
 SIR JOHN HAY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War,
 1198
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that in answer to an almost precisely similar question, asked by another hon. Member, he had stated that it was true that an alteration had been made, in the form in which the balance-sheets were now rendered to Parliament, and that the indirect expenditure of the Maufacturing Department was now charged in a different manner to that in which it was formerly charged. He could not, however, admit that the balance-sheet to which the hon. and gallant Member referred was an erroneous one, although it might be considered that the present system was a more accurate one. He was, however, perfectly willing to admit that if the system had been adopted in the balance-sheets to which the hon. and gallant Member re-ferred, the apparent cost of each gun made in the manufactory would have been considerably enhanced. The preparation of two balance-sheets would involve a considerable expenditure of time and labour; he would not undertake, therefore, to lay them upon the table of the House.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I should, perhaps, have been able to give a better answer to the right hon. Gentleman if I had been aware that he was about to ask the question he has put to me.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he had intended to make some remarks on the speeches which had been delivered, but what the hon. Member for Dudley had said had rather changed the position of affairs. In his judgment it would be far more convenient to discuss this matter as between terminable annuities and the proposal of the hon. Member for Dudley, and he should, therefore, defer any observa-
 1216
 MR. HENLEY  was very glad to hear the right hon. Gentleman speak as he had done with respect to the remissions of duty in consequence of the cattle plague. He might, however, remind the right hon. Gentleman that ordinarily these remissions would come after the assessment, and therefore the tenant would not have the power of availing himself of the alternative to which the Chancellor of the Exchequer had referred. What the tenant wanted was that he should get protection under the clause. That was a question which the right hon. Gentleman would do well to take into consideration, so that the Commissioners might be able to remit the duty where it would be right to do so.
 MR. HENLEY  said, the last thing he expected to hear was the assertion by the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Childers) that this was a simple measure. Very simple, indeed, considering the various opinions expressed on it, and the figures quoted, as to which no two Members seemed to entertain the same opinion. When the measure was first introduced he ventured to say that it was a very little one, when the threatening speech in which it was ushered in, having reference to the destruction of our supply of coal, was taken into account. He could not help thinking the conclusion a very impotent one based upon such premises. That evening, also, he felt bound to confess that he remained totally unconvinced by the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, for the plan, disguise it as he would, amounted to neither more nor less than a sinking fund. He, at all events, was unable to see it in any other light, for all the clothing thrown round it by means of the savings banks operated only to make it more of a mystery. The savings assets, so far as the £24,000,000 were concerned, were gone. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had given hon. Members, with great clearness, an explanation of which, considering the times in which we lived, they scarcely stood in need. He said that banks had very often no assets, but then he added that they had plenty of liabilities. He went on to observe, "Sometimes the banking till of the Government may be empty and the Exchequer may be full, and  vice versâ 1273 1274 laches
 MR. BUXTON  likewise deprecated any division of opinion on a question in regard to which they were all entirely agreed, and suggested that an Instruction to the Committee would probably cover any remaining points in dispute.
 MR. GOLDSMID , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that one object of it was to confer upon Returning Officers the power of giving a casting vote in case of each candidate polling an equal number of votes.
 MR. COWPER  said, as it appeared to be the general feeling of Members that a Committee of the House ought to consider the points referred to, he was quite ready to accede to their wish. The only technical difficulty was that, by its title, the Bill was limited to the metropolis, and he thought, therefore, that an Instruction to the Committee would be requisite to consider the propriety of extending the provisions of the Bill beyond the metropolis to places in the vicinity of other towns in England. He would, therefore, move a Resolution to that effect after the second reading of the Bill had been agreed to. Without giving them further instruction, it would be in the power of the Committee to consider whether they would agree to substitute the Inclosure Commissioners for the Commissioners named in the Bill.
 MR. COWPER , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, its purpose was to meet a wish which had been very strongly expressed by the public for some legislation to prevent the destruction now so frequently observed of places of natural beauty, health, and enjoyment around the metropolis, which were being encroached upon by buildings and railways. The subject was admitted to be one of considerable difficulty
 1279 1280 1281
 MR. COWPER  expressed his surprise at such an Amendment coming from the hon. Member for the Tower Hamlets, who complained the other night of a Motion of a similar kind being moved at a much later hour than that at which they had now arrived (five minutes to twelve o'clock) The House would listen with attention to anything he might wish to say on the subject treated by the Bill. He hoped therefore the hon. Gentleman would withdraw his Amendment, and allow the Bill to proceed.
 MR. LIDDELL  hoped the House would not allow itself to be diverted from the consideration of the very important proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer by the introduction into the debate of the question of the coal supply. The two subjects were totally and entirely distinct. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was partly responsible for the discussion as to the coal supply, as he had added his testimony in support of the views which had been expressed on it by
 1277
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he has received farther Papers from Victoria, relative to the "dead-lock" in that Colony, which he can lay upon the table, together with his Replies to them?
 MR. AYRTON  said, he rose to move the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was glad to receive an assurance from the Government that they intended to persevere with the measure that night. The right hon. Gentleman had taken the opportunity to repeat the speech he had made on introducing the Bill, and to restate the grounds upon which it had been introduced. He was glad to see that they were all agreed as to the objects of the Bill, and he could assure the right hon. Gentleman that he had no intention to interpose any obstacle to the accomplishment of those objects. All they had now to discuss was whether the measure contained ample methods for carrying out the purposes for which it was introduced. He felt as strongly as any one the necessity which existed of preserving the open spaces for the recreation of the inhabitants of our large towns, and especially of the metropolis, whose inhabitants had to pass over miles of roads before they could find a green shrub or tree uncontaminated by the smutty nature of the London atmosphere, but they ought also to take care that their proceedings were not at variance with the tendency of our present legislation. Above all, they ought to hesitate before consenting to the appointment of that which had been so generally condemned for many years past a  dilettanti 1283 1284 1285 "That it is inexpedient to transfer the duty with which the Metropolitan Board is by Law invested to an irresponsible Board, having power to incur expenditure and to charge the same on the ratepayers of the Metropolis; but it is desirable to amend the Inclosure Acts so as to enable the Metropolitan Board and local authorities in towns, with the aid of the Inclosure Commissioners, to acquire, by purchase or gift, rights in Commons, in order that the same may be kept open for the recreation of the inhabitants of the Metropolis and such towns."
 MR. AYRTON , after the statement of the First Commissioner of Works, said he would not preserve with his Amendment.
 MR. AYRTON  said, he thought the better course would be to read the Bill a second time, on the understanding that it should not be further proceeded with until certain questions which would be raised before an Election Committee in respect to returning officers had been decided.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I rise now to submit to the House a statement with respect to this Bill, and I must begin with a confession on my own part, and at the same time with a plea in mitigation of any blame that may be due to me. I must confess that I ought, according to general rules, to have given in the Financial Statement of the year a fuller explanation of this measure, and especially a more complete statement of the grounds for adopting, it, in order to convey a perfectly clear idea of it to the House. But, at the same time, the House will understand that the Financial Statement annually made involves such a mass of varied matter that the Minister who delivers it may well be unwilling to add an hour to a speech which must of necessity be a long one, for the purpose of entering into all the details which I fully admit to be requisite in order to enable the House to understand the nature of the proposals which I now recommend to its notice. 1221 1222 1223 1224 1225 s. Political Economy 1226 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231 1232 1233 primé facie 1234 1235 primâ facie 1236 1237 1238 1239 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 1245
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, his right hon. Friend had materially misapprehended the extent of the obligation in which the public would be involved in the event of the adoption of the plan now before the House, and upon which he hoped to offer explanations shortly. He could not dissemble his regret that the hon. Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard) had occasioned inconvenience to the public service by causing the postponement of the necessary measure now before the House through endeavouring to attach to it a discussion of propositions which were quite irrelevant to the subject of the Bill, This was the first time in his recollection that a proposal had been made in that House to set aside the second reading of a Bill when the author and seconder of the proposal both desired that the Bill should pass, and that every proposition therein should be maintained. This Bill had been delayed for some weeks in order that his hon. Friend might raise a discussion upon matters which were
 1217 1218 1219
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  begged to be allowed to say in explanation that he had not attempted to limit the discussion as to the Budget. His observations were directed to the specific Motion of the hon. Member for Buckingham.
 MR. DISRAELI  was understood to say that he had given the best notice in his power.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am not complaining of the course pursued by the right hon. Gentle-man, and simply refer to the want of notice as an apology for the imperfect nature of the answer which I am about to give. I have not had during the business hours of the day any communication from the Foreign Office upon this important subject; but I do not think, speaking of what was known up to this morning, that there is anything of consequence to add to the short statement made in another place by my noble Friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Her Majesty's Government has earnestly entertained a desire to procure a Conference of the Representatives of the Powers of Europe, and though it cannot be said that the Government have very sanguine hopes of bringing affairs to a satisfactory issue, still it is thought the chances of arranging matters presented by such a course are such as should not be passed by, in view of the extreme calamities which it is sought to prevent, and which before the proposal of a Conference was made, appeared to be certainly impending over a great portion of Europe. Her Majesty's Government have, therefore, acceded to the proposal made to them as far as the questions it involves can be entertained by them; but the precise terms upon the basis of which the invitation was to be addressed to the Powers of Europe in general had not, I think, been finally adjusted, according to the latest information which I have received. At the same time, I do not think, as far as present information goes, that difficulty is likely to arise in connection with the adjustment of those terms. The purport of the passage
 1201
 MR. DISRAELI : I take this opportunity, Sir, of making an inquiry of Her Majesty's Government with reference to a subject of much importance. I should like to know whether they have any communication to make to the House with regard to this intended Conference at Paris? I wish to know if it is a fact that Her Majesty's Government have acceded to the invitation of one of the great Powers, and have consented to attend the Conference; and I wish also to know whether there is any truth in this announcement which I find in a foreign journal which is generally regarded as a semi-official organ—
 1200 "The three Courts seek conditions of agreement in territorial compensations which would offer indemnities and satisfaction to the claims of Prussia, Austria, and Italy. The difficulty in the present state of affairs consists in finding compensations suitable in each case."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he proposed to go on with the Bill that night, and his impression was that the discussion to be raised by the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dudley was more germane to the Terminable Annuities Bill than to the Customs and Inland Revenue Bill. He did not anticipate any lengthened discussion on the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckingham (Mr. Hubbard), and he agreed with the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing) that he did not think that the discussion need be taken separately on the two Motions. When they passed the second reading of the Customs and Inland Revenue Bill, to which he apprehended there would be no objection, he would make a statement on the Terminable Annuities Bill, which he had so far only been able to imperfectly unfold. If the House negatived the Motion of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckingham, he thought the hon. Gentleman the Member for Dudley ought to have the opportunity of bringing forward his Motion before the House went into Committee on the Terminable Annuities Bill.
 MR. SAMUELSON  hoped the House would have some more definite explanation than they had had from the Government on the question of the coal supply of the country as bearing on the measure before the House. For his own part, he did not agree in the doleful anticipations which had been held forth—and he would briefly tell them why. This question was first raised some three or four years ago at the Newcastle meeting of the British Association, by that eminent man—Sir William Armstrong—who said that in some 300 years the coal supply of England would be so much diminished as to seriously impede the manufacturing industry of the country, This led to an investigation, which was made by Mr. Hull of the Geological Survey, a most valuable public servant, who published a book on the subject, in which he stated that there was a probability of 80,000,000,000 tons of coal being obtained from the coal-fields of England. In a return made by Mr. Hunt, keeper of mining records, it was stated that the annual consumption of coal was
 1275 1276
 MR. CARDWELL , in reply, said, he should be happy to lay on the table the papers with reference to this subject so far as they at present went. There was published in the newspapers yesterday a telegraphic statement that the difficulty had been brought to a solution, but no such intelligence had reached him. So far as he knew, the Legislative Council having rejected the Tariff Bill, the Ministry resigned, and negotiations had been entered into for forming a Ministry, but they had not been successful. He would lay all the papers he had on the subject on the table.
 MR. CARDWELL  said, that as his right hon. Friend had truly said, the subject was one which demanded very careful consideration. In order to procure for it that consideration he would undertake not to bring it forward on Thursday next and to
 1199
 SIR FITZROY KELLY , in explanation, said, that in stating the amount of the charges referred to by the hon. Gentleman at £4,000,000, he meant to add that it was after the deduction of the sum of £720,000 a year, and that it was left subject to the aggregate of the dividends saved. The amount of that aggregate he had not ascertained when he spoke.
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  entirely agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was not desirable to enter into a discussion that night as to the expendiency of applying the £500,000, or something more, left at the right hon. Gentleman's disposal, to the further remission of the duty on fire insurance. He rather regretted that the question of the duty on fire insurance had been brought forward at all, until it was raised by the Motion of the hon. Member for Dudley. After the able and luminous speech of the hon. Member for Wick (Mr. Laing), it was not his intention to go into the general principles of the Bill now under discussion. He agreed with that hon. Gentleman that if there were no other objection to the Bill an insuperable one was to be found in the fact that for forty years to come it would tie up the hands of every Financial Minister of this country in respect of any further remission of taxation no matter how heavy the pressure of taxation, or how strong the claim to mitigation. On the other hand, this measure would compel the Minister to ask of Parliament a power to tax the country to a considerable amount in order to enable him to pay off certain portions of the National Debt. Anticipating those consequences to follow the enactment of this measure he should certainly require to hear much stronger
 1260 1261 1262 1263 1264 1265
 SIR FITZROY KELLY  agreed that it was desirable to shorten this discussion, but he did not understand what was the present position of the House, nor what position it would be placed in if it accepted the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. He would ask his right hon. Friend at once to open to the House the whole question to which he proposed to call attention, as it involved the taxation of the people for a very great number of years to come. There were other points on which he hoped the House would receive information; but if the nation paid between £3,000,000 and £4000,000 a year until the year 1905, subject only to the diminution from time to time of interest or dividends, he would ask the right hon. Gentleman whether the immense sum was to be raised by new and additional taxes, or whether his right hon. Friend calculated that there would be year by year an increasing surplus, sufficient, even if there were no remission of taxes, to allow for so large a sum being applied exclusively to the reduction of the National Debt.
 MR. SANDFORD  said, he made the assertion on the authority of a former Attorney General, who stated the principle before a Committee upstairs. He wished that any Act of this kind might be a general one.
 MR. SANDFORD  objected to the Bill as it now stood, on the ground that it was founded on a principle of exceptional legislation. To confine the operation of an Inclosure Act to commons within a certain radius of the metropolis would be
 1288
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he had always been such a sincere admirer of the financial policy of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was with extreme regret that he felt himself bound to express some doubt as to the wisdom of the present plan for reducing the National Debt. In the first place he considered that the scheme was a bad scheme, and that it was uncertain in its operation; and in the next place, if one-half the importance ought to be attributed to the reduction of the National Debt, which was attributed to it by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget speech, he (Mr. Fawcett) maintained that the House ought not to be content with the insignificant scheme now before them. First, as to the scheme itself. Having listened attentively to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that evening, he arrived at the conclusion that, although everything was certain connected with operation A, yet everything was uncertain connected with operation B, and it was impossible for the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or any other person, to tell what would be the amount which would annually have to be paid in consequence of the fiscal operations classed under category B. He considered that this was a very serious defect. But there were other kinds of objections connected with all plans for paying off debt by means of Terminable Annuities. He would not enter into the vexed question whether the present plan involved the vices of the old sinking fund or not; but, without deciding that point, he would say that he thought it was an unfortunate financial policy to provide for a future reduction of debt by promising to increase the annual charge, and by throwing upon their posterity a greater annual charge than they themselves were prepared to bear at the present time. The scheme would of course become nugatory if it should be found necessary to borrow. But to that it might be replied that they should not have to borrow, as non-intervention, it might be said, had be-
 1266 1267 1268 1269
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, that he would adopt the suggestion of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would defer the proposal of the Amendment of which he had given notice upon the second reading of the Terminable Annuities Bill until the House was asked to go into Committee upon that measure. Although he concurred in many of the remarks which had been made by the hon. Member for Buckingham, he was afraid that the adoption of the Resolution which the hon. Gentleman had proposed might embarrass the financial arrangements of the Government, and therefore he hoped the hon. Gentleman would not press the Motion to a division.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, it was his intention of proceeding with his Amendment, as he believed the subject would more properly be considered in connection with the Terminable Annuities Bill.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If he will fix a night for the discussion on the Terminable Annuities Bill?
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, that as he intended to submit a Motion on Tuesday, the 12th of June, on the question of the
 1278 a
 MR. CHILDERS  said, that no doubt his hon. Friend had said so; but, at the same time, he had distinctly intimated that an increase of expenditure such as he had just described would be better than that prospective scheme of finance. Now, all he could state was that the Government were malting provision for each of the objects mentioned by the hon. Gentleman. They were proposing a scheme for the National Gallery, which he hoped was not extravagant, and also a liberal and complete scheme for the British Museum; and as to the Votes for Education, looking to the increase which had taken place in them of late years, he did not think the House had shown any inclination to be niggardly in respect to that branch of expenditure. On that ground the speculation of his hon. Friend was, he thought, hardly one which ought to be substituted for the plan of the Government. His hon. Friend, however, used very hard words in reference to that plan. He called it a juggle and a puzzle, and spoke of it as being an insidious proposal. He, however, could scarcely conceive any scheme which was less open to be so designated, inasmuch as the House had had placed before it exact information as to the greatest possible charge for each year, and the utmost extent to which the National Debt could be reduced by its operation. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down spoke of the plan as uncertain and insignificant, but a proposal the ultimate effect of which might be to bring about a reduction of £86,000,000, while in no year could it actually fail to secure its object to some extent, was he thought hardly liable to those changes. It was also said that by the operation of the plan we should be throwing more on posterity than on ourselves, but an arrangement which was to continue for eighteen-and-a-half years and which would then put the Chancellor of the Exchequer in a better position to the extent of half a million a year could not very well be regarded as one throwing a charge on posterity. It was in bad years that the great merit of the scheme would be most conclusively established. When the hon. Gentleman the Member for Brighton had warned the House that the present was not a time for reducing the National Debt, but rather for the reduction of taxation, because the working man whom he was so anxious to keep in this country would be induced to stay more by the latter than by the former
 1272
 MR. CHILDERS  said, he bad listened with great attention to the hon. and learned Gentleman opposite (Sir FitzRoy Kelly), who had begun by saying that the proposal of the Government would create a charge for a certain number of years of £4,000,000 annually, in addition to existing charges, and that it would tie up the hands of the Government for some forty years. It was true that before he concluded the hon. and learned Gentleman discovered that according to his own figures the £4,000,000 was reduced to £2,000,000, and that the charge to be imposed for the latter half of the forty years would only be £1,(100,000; the fact, however, being that at the outside it would amount to only £500,000 a year. It was desirable to state to the House in a few words what the exact financial effect of the scheme would be, because the hon. and learned Gentleman had evidently rather confused himself by figures, and some other hon. Members also appeared to have somewhat misapprehended the matter. The hon. and learned Gentleman bad stated that because £580,000 of Terminable Annuities would fall in next year, it would be the absolute duty of Parliament then to take off an equivalent amount of taxation. Now, he should say that the duty of Parliament, if there was any duty in the matter, lay rather in the very opposite direction, and that Parliament should apply the £580,000 falling in next year and the sums falling in in future years to a diminution of the permanent burdens of the country, instead of to a reduction to existing taxation. Coming then to the figures, the proposal before the House substituted an annuity of £1,725,000 for eighteen-and-a-half years for a permanent annuity of £720,000. During those years, therefore, the interest of the National Debt would be increased by £1,005,000. But this operation was to be effected at a time when advantage could be taken of the lapsing of £580,000 existing annuities, and thus by an increased charge of only £480,000, we should succeed in extinguishing £24,000,000 of the permanent debt in a aeries of eighteen-and-a-half
 1270
 MR. J. LOWTHER  said, he hoped that considering the lateness of the hour and the importance of the measure, the hon. Gentleman would postpone the second reading.
 MR. WHITE  inferred that the House did not wish to protract the discussion, but he would observe that the hon. Member for Buckingham was not responsible for the inconvenience which might have resulted to the public service, because the Chancellor of the Exchequer requested the House not to discuss the Budget on the night it was brought forward. But the right hon. Gentleman had never given the House an opportunity of discussing the Budget, and then he reproached the hon. Member for Buckingham for the great inconvenience which had resulted to the public service from the postponement of the second reading of this Bill in consequence of the Amendment of which the hon. Member had given notice. He did not think therefore that the House had been treated fairly by the right hon. Gentleman. The hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckingham, on the other hand, deserved great credit for the course he had pursued, and he begged to tender him his personal thanks for what he had done.
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he did not intend to raise an argument upon the policy of applying the surplus of revenue in the way proposed, but he wished to remark upon some points which the right hon. gentleman had not, he thought, made perfectly clear. The first remark he had to make was, that this Bill proposed what was equivalent to an addition to the existing taxation. He submitted that when the country was in a state to pay off debt they were in a position to exonerate the country from so much taxation. This was the first point which should be distinctly understood. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had treated the cessation of the dead weight of £585,000, expiring in 1867, as an additional source of revenue; but the fact was, that whatever payment was made in liquidation of that loan was really raised by taxation. It must not be said that because we ceased to pay £600,000 to the Bank therefore that we had got the £600,000. This was the first fallacy which he detected. Again, in the Return placed on the table, a case was assumed in which the whole of the savings banks deposits would be released from other claims to be applied to the creation of Terminable Annuities, while the argument of the Chancellor supposed as possible the opposite extreme, that the entire annuity should be absorbed in payment of re-called de posits; but this was surely a monstrous supposition, for the Post Office savings banks, instead of showing a decline in the deposits, presented every year a steady increase. This was a matter of great satisfaction, and he felt no apprehension of the increase not continuing. Nor could he see any reason for the distinction which the Chancellor of the Exchequer appeared to draw between the operations of the old savings banks and those of the Post Office savings banks. A million and a half were last year withdrawn from the former, but that amount had not gone back into the pockets of the depositors, but had been transferred to the Post Office banks, and this process was likely to continue. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: Oh, no.] The right hon.
 1246 1247
 MR. HUBBARD  said, he trusted the House and the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer would believe him when he said that he was always unwilling to take a course which was inconvenient to Her Majesty's Government and the House, and that he had taken the earliest opportunity of bringing the subject before them. The House would recollect that the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Financial Statement had estimated the surplus of the year 1866–7 at £1,350,000, and that he proposed to appropriate £562,000 of it by reductions of taxation in favour of wine, wood, pepper, and locomotion. That left £778,000 of the surplus, and he desired to submit a Motion to the House with respect to the way in which a considerable portion of that balance should be dealt with. His right hon. Friend in his Budget speech made one proposition, and he (Mr. Hubbard) now ventured to make another, which he believed would be more in accordance with the feelings and wishes of the people than if the principle of the Government was adopted. No doubt the origin of the very startling proposition made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer could be traced distinctly to the highly interesting speech made by the hon. Member for Westminster, to whom he could not allude, especially as he was absent, without saying how cordially he welcomed him in that House. As the House was for the most part composed of practical men, it was advisable that philosophers should not be unrepresented, in order that each class might correct the other. But the basis of the hon. Member's speech, and the basis also of the "sensational" propositions of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, formed very debatable matter; and when he (Mr. Hub-hard) heard the not problematical, but almost certain exhaustion of our coal affirmed, he could not help recalling to mind that, in 1860, the Government had, by the Treaty with France, abrogated their right for a period of ten years to alter their fiscal operations with regard to the export of coal, and that by their subsequent Treaty with the Zollverein the Govern-
 1203 1204 1205 1206 s.; d s. d. s. 1207 s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. d s. s s. s. 1208 s. s. d d s. 5d. d. d. d 1209 s. d s d. d. d d. 1210 d. "I do not grudge the reduction which has taken place, because that tax applied to stock-in-trade was unquestionably a tax upon industry, and the benefit of the remission, and of any consequent increase of insurance, whether in itself small or great, is certain to find its way to the consumer of the commercial or industrial products which are the subject, of the tax…. resisting Motions for the repeal or reduction of the duty, I have not been used to defend the tax upon its merits…. However, I think that the definition of the tax as a tax on prudence may be amended; and that we might call it, as to the chief part of it, with greater accuracy a tar upon property, but with a double exception—the one being an exemption in favour of improvidence, and the other an exemption in favour of those large holders of property in the form of houses and buildings, who are able to take their chance and perform for themselves the function which is called self-insurance. I must say that no part of the argument ever used on the subject of fire insurance has appeared to me to tell so strongly against the present state of the law as this, because it is said and, as I think, said unanswerably, 'If you are to make insurance against fire the means of imposing a duty upon property it ought to be imposed equally, and there ought not to be a virtual exemption on behalf of large holders of property.' That, as it appears to me, is an argument to which there is no reply."—[3  Hansard 1211
 MR. HUBBARD  said, in reply, that if he carried his Motion the subject would be disposed of, and there would then be no necessity for their discussing the Motion of the hon. Member for Dudley. If the surplus was appropriated in the manner he suggested there would be no necessity for their considering it in the way suggested by the Government.
 MR. LOCKE  said, that he had, in the Committee which sat upon this subject, objected, and still objected, to placing the control of the commons in the hands of the Metropolitan Board of Works. That Committee had come to two resolutions:—That the statute of Merton should be repealed, and that the commons should be preserved in their present state. In their Report they suggested the different boards and bodies that might be intrusted to carry out the various provisions. Amongst others they suggested the Inclosure Commissioners and the Metropolitan Board of Works, as well as a distinct Board to be appointed for the purpose, and which they thought would be the best body of all to take charge of the subject. He was very much in favour of referring the matter to a Select Committee of that House. If the House thought that the Inclosure Commissioners were the right body to whom
 1287
 MR. MARSH , in seconding the Amendment, said, that the hon. Member for Buckingham having gone into pretty nearly the whole of the questions raised by the Budget, he would likewise make a few remarks on some of these topics besides the one to which the Amendment more particularly referred. His hon. Friend had said a great deal about the timber duties, but he did not appear to approve the policy of doing away with them. [Mr. HUBBARD: Yes!] There was much inconsistency in the way those duties were charged, and decidedly they were objectionable. Then as to the modification of the duty upon wine imported in bottles, he thought the alteration made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was advisable, because anything which caused as much public inconvenience as that caused by the former system must be mischievous, He spoke with feeling on this point, because having imported wine some time ago, parties who sent it put it in a cask to avoid duty, and it was spoilt. He now came to the proposition to pay off the National Debt, which was indeed a very serious one. He was not prepared to express a decided opinion against the proposition to pay off part of the National Debt, but he hoped the House would pause before wholly accepting the views expressed by his right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was a dangerous thing
 1212 "It can be neither consonant to the dignity nor to the wisdom of an enlightened Legislature to guard against its own presumed improvidence by an engagement directed only to distant and contingent benefits, and which under many supposable events may in the meantime be found to have been of very doubtful policy." s. 1213 "They will admit perhaps without hesitation that a nation can no more profit by this trafficking with itself in its own securities by buying debt with debt, and money with money, than an individual can do by shifting his purse from one pocket to another." "Suppose, for instance, that instead of a whole community only one of its numerous merchants or manufacturers has borrowed money at interest which he can only repay by withdrawing a portion of his capital invested in trade, will be voluntarily resort to pay off this money? What will be its consequences? It will neither increase nor diminish the sum total of his wealth; he will owe less, but he will also have less; he will cease to pay interest on the debt which he discharges, but he will also cease to receive profit on the wealth which effects the discharge." d "Wisely, therefore, would the rulers of any community in the most prosperous condition of its finance apply themselves to the direct interest
 1214 d. d. 1215
 MR. LAING  said, he wished to inquire of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckingham, who had a Motion relative to Fire and Marine Insurances, on the Motion for the Second Reading of the Customs and Inland Revenue Bill, and the hon. Member for Dudley, who had a similar Motion on the Second Reading of the Terminable Annuities Bill, Whether, as it would be inconvenient to have two discussions on the same subject, one discussion could not answer the purpose of both hon. Gentlemen?
 MR. LAING  said, that from the course proceedings had taken, the House was discussing the important principle involved in this Bill under great disadvantages. In the first place, the discussion had been cut in two by the Amendment of the hon. Member for Buckingham, and, owing to the Bill being taken at an hour in the evening when it was scarcely possible to keep a House together even where the subject was far more attractive than that before them, hon. Gentlemen found some difficulty in arguing the question. A second and still more serious disadvantage, however, arose from the totally different ground upon which the Bill was now laid before the House from that taken by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget
 1248 1249 bonâ fide bonâ fide 1250 1251 1252 1253 d 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 d. d d d. d. 1259 d 2d
 MR. LAING  explained that he had said the reduction of taxation or the reduction of the debt was one of the questions which should be left open to a future Parliament.
 MR. WALPOLE  said, the Colonial Bishoprics' Bill which involved very important considerations was set down for Thursday next. He wished, therefore, to know from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Whether he will give a longer time than Thursday next for the consideration of the measure; whether he will on Thursday next or at any other time fix a day when it can be considered and gone into; and whether he has any Papers in the Colonial Office relative to the appointment of Colonial Bishops, the production of which may be material to the proper discussion of the question?
 MR. THOMAS HUGHES  believed that the principle laid down by the hon. Gentleman—namely, that the lords of the manor were the absolute owners of commons subject only to the rights of commoners—had not been decided to be a principle of the English law.
 MR. ALDERMAN LAWRENCE  observed, that what the inhabitants of London wanted was a body of non-inclosure Commissioners—a body of gentlemen who would take care that commons were not inclosed contrary to law. The people of the metropolis justly desired the preservation of their recreation grounds. If the Committee on this Bill were to inquire over the whole country, the Bill itself would be a mere delusion.
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the Bill, but of expressing his surprise that the right hon. Gentleman had not offered a single reason which appeared in any way conclusive for the passing of such a measure. The legislation contemplated was totally foreign to anything that had hitherto been done in regard to the commons of the country; and he asked why the Inclosure Commissioners could not perform all that was requisite in the metropolis, seeing that they discharged similar duties throughout the country. Too much had been said as to the power of public opinion in this matter, for it had not been able to protect the public against the injustice of the Department of Woods and Forests.
 1286
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  also trusted
 1282
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Why the extra pay for the Professor of Military History at Sandhurst has been fixed so as to give a Captain or Subaltern of the Line £350 per annum, including their regimental pay, while a Captain or Subaltern of Artillery would only get £292 and £216 respectively; whether it is with the view of preventing Officers of the Ordnance Corps competing for such appointments?
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that the officers of the Line at Sandhurst received a fixed salary; whereas the officers of Engineers and. Artillery received indirect pay in addition to their fixed pay. The matter, however, was now under consideration, and there was some difficulty in arriving at a conclusion on it.
 MAJOR JERVIS  seconded the Motion.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I rise to offer my hon. Friend the explanation which he desires, so far as it depends upon me; and, first of all, I will refer to that case which has occupied the less prominent portion of his statement, but which was treated as part of the question which he wished to submit to the House—I mean the unfortunate failure on Friday afternoon last to make a House. With respect to that, I think the general propositions of my hon. Friend are so just that it is quite right I should state to the House exactly what occurred, so far as it is within the knowledge of myself or any Member of the Government. The hon. Member is, I think, correct in the general proposition he lays down with regard to Friday nights. It is the usual endeavour of the Government both to make a House, and, so far as they can, to keep a House on Friday evening. Now, what happened on last Friday evening was this, and I am in hopes it will be thought the Government are not to blame—whether any one else is to blame, I am not here to say, and I really do not know. But, Sir, those whose duty it is, on the part of the Government, to look to the making of a House have found during the present Session of Parliament—probably in part owing to its being a new Parliament, and in part owing to the great amount of interesting and important business that has been before the House—there was no difficulty whatever in making a House. In general there has been a superabundance of Members ready to make a House; and I know that once or twice, when I had a doubt about it in my own mind, I have said to the Secretary of the Treasury—"Is there any likelihood that there may be no House on such a day?" and he said, "Oh, no; the attendance of Members at the usual hour of prayers is so great that the House is certain to be made." However, on Thursday last, that being the day which immediately followed the vacation, my hon. Friend the Secretary for the Treasury, in the exercise of a forethought which it was his duty to exercise, bethought him that possibly there might be a difficulty in making a House on that day; and conse-
 1315 1316 1317
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  desired to say one word upon the subject, as he was of opinion that at least a little  laches
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The course of procedure this evening will, I think, be this: We assume, that after the Order of the Day for the Committee on the Representation of the People Bill has been read, the right, hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) will move the Instruction of which he has given notice; and as far as the Government is concerned, they will at once accede to that Motion without any further discussion. We think the subject of referring these Bills to the same Committee has been abundantly, though inci-
 1318 "That it would be neither just nor expedient Unit any class of persons who are entitled to vote at the election of Members to serve in Parliament, against whom no corrupt practices have been proved, should be deprived of their franchise by the present Bill" 1319
 MR. BOUVERIE  said, that no prefatory remarks were requisite in making the Motion of which he had given notice. The subject had undergone considerable discussion already, and the opinion of the House
 1320 "That the Representation of the People Bill and the Re-distribution of Seats Bill be referred to the same Committee."
 MR. BODVERIE  then moved—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee that they have power to consolidate the said Bills into one Bill."
 SIR RAINALD KNIGHTLEY , who was very imperfectly heard, rose to move the Instruction of which he had given notice—
 "That it be an Instruction to the Committee that they have power to make provision for the better prevention of bribery and corruption at elections." 1321
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Part of the speech of the hon. Gentleman, that in which he canvassed the conduct of the Government, was, if I may be permitted to say so, rather in anticipation of the debate which will occur by-and-by, and therefore I will forego all attempts either at defence or recrimination. As to the Motion of the hon. Gentleman, I will not for a moment doubt that he is very sincere and earnest in his desire to make provision for the better prevention of bribery and corruption at elections. I venture to appeal to him in the name of that very sincerity and earnestness not to persevere with this Instruction to the Committee. When we contended that we were justified by a regard for the interests of the question in bringing in a Franchise Bill apart from the Bill for the
 1322 1323
 MR. OSBORNE : Having been most recently returned to this House, I beg to express my thanks to my hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley) for having been first on the other side of the House to direct attention to a point that I think requires reform more even than the franchise or the re-distribution of seats. It is all very well for the right hon. Gentleman below me to say, "I want experience on the subject of bribery." In God's name, what experience more does he want? Is it not patent to this House and to the country that the real
 1324
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, he could not separate the questions of bribery and intimidation at elections from the question of re-distribution of seats. He felt as strongly as the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley) that the present organization of county elections did not secure economy. The present system was a most expensive one. The system of intrusting everything to agents had entirely failed as a measure for securing economy. An account was given by the election agent of certain large expenses which were made certain by the appoint-
 1325
 MR. CLAY  thought that if a thing was right to be done, it would not be very easy to point out a time when it was wrong to do it. It seemed to him he must he a wise man who could exactly predict the length of the life of the present Parliament; and he must be a very sanguine man who could suppose that it would be very long lived. He agreed with his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire that bribery, corruption, and intimidation were the black spot on that House; but having regard to the time which former
 1326
 SIR LAWRENCE PALK  confessed that the reply of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire had taken him by surprise. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to treat the question of bribery, intimidation, and corruption as a matter of no great moment—one that might be taken up at any time that was convenient to the House. But there was no Reformer so ardent that he wished to go through a course of Reform; there was no Member who did not wish to see the question settled for at least the present generation of legislators; and there was not a Member on either side of the House who would stand up and say that any measure of Reform could be satisfactory to the House or the country that did not deal with the question of bribery, intimidation, and corruption. It seemed to him to be the very pith and marrow of Reform. He quite admitted that the measure before the House was open to great cavil and discussion, and that there was very considerable doubt whether it could under any circumstances be made a measure which would be acceptable to the country; but there was one question as to which no two men held different opinions, and that was the extensive corruption of many places which now returned Members to Parliament. There was another question which he might submit to the House. It was proposed largely to extend the franchise. Were they going to extend the franchise to those whose poverty made them more especially susceptible to the chance of being bribed or intimidated without giving
 1327
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I apprehend the question before the House is not whether bribery, corruption, and intimidation were extensively practised at the last election and at former elections, nor whether it is important that the House should use every means of checking those practices, but whether it is expedient the House should agree to this Instruction, which will not only give the Committee power but will oblige them to introduce into the Reform Bill provisions against bribery, corruption, and intimidation. When an Instruction of this kind is moved it is usual for the Member who proposes it to give the House some information as to the means by which the Committee are to carry it into effect. But in this case the hon. Member for Northamptonshire has not done so. He assumes—what I dare say no one is prepared to deny—that bribery has prevailed at elections; but he does not state by what provisions he would prevent it at future elections. Neither does the hon. Member for South Devon (Sir Lawrence Palk), though I think he has rather pointed to the ballot, to which, perhaps, he has become a convert. From my experience of one or two Bills directed against those practices, I know the subject is one with which there is no little difficulty in dealing; and I express my own opinion when I say that I cannot put much faith in mere penal enactments for preventing
 1328
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : With regard to the objection of the right hon. Gentleman that no specific provision has been proposed by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley), I apprehend that the object of an Instruction is not to propose on the face of it a specific amendment of the law, but to give power to a Committee to deal with a subject which otherwise it could not deal with, so that in the Committee proposals may be brought forward for an alteration of the law. I confess that I was rather surprised at the statement which we have just heard from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State for the Home Department. The
 1329 1330
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, there could be no doubt that bribery had extensively prevailed at the last general election, and at all previous general elections. So strong was his opinion on the subject (having served as Chairman of two Committees), that he had ventured to put a Notice on the subject on the paper which stood for the next day. If that Motion should be carried, it would, of course, be very much in the nature of an Instruction, and would effect what he believed to be the universal desire of every Gentleman having a scat in that. House. The following was the Motion of which he had given notice:—
 That it is the opinion of this House that any person found by a Royal Commission to have been guilty of offering or giving a bribe to any elector, in order to induce him to vote, or to abstain from voting, or on account of his having voted or abstained from voting for any candidate at an, election of a Knight of the Shire or Burgess to I serve in Parliament, shall henceforth and for ever be disqualified from exercising the Electoral Franchise or from sitting in Parliament." 1331
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, if any justification was required for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire, it was to be found in the conduct of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary respecting the Commissions which had been appointed. It would be a month to-morrow since the Motions for the four Commissions to inquire into the existence of corrupt practices at the late elections for Totnes, Lancaster, Reigate, and Great Yarmouth had been agreed to. Her Majesty's Government offered no opposition, the matter was referred to another place, and since then nothing more had been heard about it. But surely it was the duty of the Government to take care that some one should move the House of Lords in order that the Commissions might issue. [Sir GEORGE GREY: Her Majesty's Government have done so.] He wished to know when that had been done. The public journals, from which hon. Gentlemen usually derived their knowledge of what passed in the other House, had not noticed the circumstance that attention had been called to these Commissions of Inquiry, and the Commissions themselves had not issued from the Home Office. If those Commissions were to be a ground for delay in acceding to the present Motion, Her Majesty's Government ought to satisfy the House that they have shown due diligence in causing them to issue. If the Government were really in earnest in dealing with this question, they would take care that the Commissions should issue forthwith. Then, if the sitting of Parliament were carried on till September or November, the Reports of the Commissions would be ready, and the House would have time to deal with this Bill. He hoped the Motion of the hon. Baronet the Member for Northamptonshire would be agreed to.
 MR. STANILAND  said, he also had a notice on the paper in the shape of an Instruction to the Committee. He had voted for the second reading of the Electoral Franchise Bill, and desired to see it pass; but he did not expect that, if the Bill should pass, there would be any abatement of corrupt practices unless at the same time some legislative measures for their repression were adopted. He was surprised at the assertion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that there was not sufficient evidence of the existence of bribery. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER dis-
 1332 1333 1334
 MR. SPEAKER  said, the hon. Gentleman was not in order. He might speak generally upon the subject before the House, but he could not speak on the proposal of which he had given notice for a future day.
 MR. STANILAND  then concluded by expressing a hope that the right hon. Baronet the Home Secretary would take care that pending the discussion of these Bills some pledge was given by the Government to the House that they would introduce a measure on this subject, which should show the country that they were really as anxious as was the country itself, and as he believed the House was, to do away with this vice and to settle this question which had proved so great a pest.
 MR. BARROW  said, it would be a matter of the greatest pain to him, as an admirer of our Constitution, if this blot of bribery should remain unchecked. He thought that before they subjected a larger portion of the population to the possibility of demoralization they ought to endeavour, by some means or other, to put a stop to the bribery which prevailed too generally at elections. No hon. Gentleman in that House could say he was ignorant of the fact that bribery was carried on in his own neighbourhood, though he (Mr. Barrow) was, happily, able to say that it had not extended to the division of the county which he represented (South Notts). No hon. Gentleman could say he was not satisfied in his conscience that there existed an amount of bribery which ought, if possible, to be put down. Bribery at present was the greatest blot upon our Constitution, and he was not willing to take the step they were about to do until the question was practically dealt with.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I wish, in the first instance, to advert to what has been said respecting the Commissions moved for in this House, because there is a misapprehension with regard to the facts. The noble Lord at the head of the Government was about to move for these Commissions in the other House, when a noble and independent Lord (Earl Grey), who takes a prominent part in the debates of that House, stated that he thought, in respect of so important a proposal, more time ought to be given to the House for the examination of the evidence; and at the instance of that noble Lord and under these circumstances delay unavoidably occurred, and the consequence is that the House of Lords has not yet expressed its acquiescence in the Address of this House, and it has been impossible that the Commissions should be issued. I hope I shall not be thought intrusive if I offer a few words upon the Motion before the House. The question is, not whether we shall endeavour, at the proper time and in the proper manner, to do all in our power to put an end to bribery, but whether this is the proper time. I apprehend the rule of business is, if you wish to do things well, to do one thing at a time, and then to consider well the thing which you are about to do. With regard to the general question of Reform, the House has expressed the opinion that the one thing which must be done comprehends two important branches of the subject—the franchise and
 1336 1337
 MR. WHITESIDE : The manner in
 1338
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he had stated that the Bill would be endangered if this Instruction were agreed to.
 MR. WHITESIDE : Quite so. I understood the hon. Member to say he was apprehensive that if we dealt with the subject of bribery and expenses of elections, we might endanger Parliamentary Reform—so that, as I understand him, Reform is to be carried, leaving bribery
 1339
 MR. BRIGHT : I think that those who sent us here, when to-morrow they read the report of what has taken place, especially the speeches made on the other side of the House, will be extremely gratified at the new zeal of hon. Gentlemen opposite with regard to purity of election—and their gratification will be the greater if they should happen to believe in that zeal. Now, there is no man in the House, I am sure, notwithstanding the speeches that have been made, and there is no man out of it who knows anything about the principles of law-making, who is not quite certain of this—that to attempt to draw up a series of clauses upon all matters affecting the conduct of elections, with a view to insert them in this Bill, is not a proceeding which is wise with regard to the question of purity of election, and is most adverse to the Bill now before the House. The Attorney General has already stated that, and I repeat it. This question of purity of election is a very great and a very difficult question. We have had several Committees of the House to inquire into it. I recollect sitting on a Committee for many weeks with, I think, the hon. and learned Gentleman, one of the Members for Suffolk (Sir FitzRoy Kelly). Well, every kind of proposition almost was made. Most of them were rejected; and of those that were accepted by the Committee some have been rejected by the House and some have been accepted, but those that were accepted have apparently utterly failed. Some Members have an idea that you can suppress bribery and corruption by measures of punishment. I entertain no such belief. The law is strong enough now as far as the matter of punishment is concerned, and yet apparently the law effects nothing in the suppression of bribery. What is clear to every man who is connected with the representative system in every other country but this is, that you can only suppress bribery by having constituencies sufficiently large, and by having the mode of election by ballot. Now, Sir, I will not go into a discussion of that question, but an hon. Gentleman behind me has referred to it, and I wish only to utter one sentence with regard to it. It is this—that
 1340
 MR. DISRAELI : I merely rise to express my confidence that the House will come to a decision upon this question without being influenced by the reign of terror with which the hon. Gentleman is continually threatening us. These threats come somewhat too often. Not having succeeded in frightening us by the letter which was read to the meeting on Primrose Hill, the hon. Gentleman repeats these threats here; but the House of Commons will not, I am sure, be deterred from doing what, under the circumstances, I clearly believe to be its duty. The hon. Gentleman has taunted us with a new-born zeal in favour of measures to put down bribery and corruption at elections; but I was not aware that we on this side of the House were particularly inrerested in maintaining that system of corruption. I have always understood that the great mass of Gentlemen on this side of the House returned by counties do, at least, represent constituencies to whom corruption has never for a moment been imputed; and if look to the records of the last Parliament upon this subject, and especially to the proceedings of the last general election, I do not find with regard to the borough elections that we on this side of the House have any cause to be afraid of confronting this question. Whether the feelings of the hon. Gentleman and those intimately connected with him are the same I shall not stop to inquire; but if we are attacked upon this head I can fairly retort by up- pealing to the annals of Wakefield and of Huddersfield. In those instances the charges were very properly held to be proved, but they at least were not made against Members sitting on this side of the House.
 COLONEL CROSLAND  rose to explain that the occurrences to which the right hon. Gentleman had alluded in connection with Huddersfield had not taken place at the last election. ["Order !"]
 MR. DISRAELI : The hon. Gentleman has no right to interrupt me for the purpose of making an explanation. I was not alluding to his case; but even if I were, it would be equally good for my argument. It is perfectly immaterial whether the hon. Gentleman's experience is more or less recent. I understand, however, from the hon. Gentleman that my statement with regard to the previous election was quite accurate. Let me remind the House what they are called upon to do by the Instruction that has been moved by
 1342
 COLONEL CROSLAND : I rise to make an explanation [ Cries of
 MR. WYLD , said, he should support the
 1343
 MR. MILNER GIBSON : When my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer introduced the Franchise Bill to the House, he announced generally the views of the Government upon Reform, and said in his speech that a part of the subject was undoubtedly the question of expenses at elections, and of bribery and corruption; and he said that the Government would not consider that they had completely dealt with the question of Reform until they had reviewed the law affecting these subjects and made such changes as might be found necessary. He stated also that it was the intention of the Government to deal with the question, although they did not intend to do so in this Bill. The charge against the Franchise Bill, was that the exclusion of the question of the re-distribution of seats from the measure was without precedent, and one of the reasons given for including both these questions in one Bill was the fact that no Reform Bill had ever been introduced into Parliament by any Government without including both these subjects. I venture to remind the House that there never was a Government Bill relating to the question of Reform which contained a series of clauses the object of which was to deal with the question of bribery and corruption. If we had introduced such clauses into this Bill we should have been departing from all precedent; and the charge made against us would have been that we had taken as an unprecedented a course by including bribery clauses in our Bill as we had done by the exclusion of the question of the distribution of seats. It is indeed a part of Reform always dealt with separately. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire in introducing his Reform Bill of 1859, though many years had elapsed since 1832, and though there had in the meantime been plenty of bribery, never thought of including a series of clauses relating to the subject. The fact is that this Motion is a very effectual mode of lessening the chance of carrying the Reform
 1344
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As no other hon. Gentleman has an Instruction to move, I beg to move that the Speaker do now leave the Chair. I have only to say, on the subject of the division which has taken place, that of
 1348
 CAPTAIN HAYTER , who had placed a Notice on the paper, to move as an Amendment to the Instruction to be moved by Mr. Bouverie—
 "That this House, although desirous that the subjects of the Franchise, and of the Re-distribution of Seats, should be considered together, is of opinion that the system of grouping proposed in the present Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats is neither convenient nor equitable, and that the scheme of Her Majesty's Government is not sufficiently matured to form the basis of a satisfactory measure," "This House, while ready to consider the general subject of a Re-distribution of Seats, is of opinion that the system of grouping proposed by Her Majesty's Government is neither convenient nor equitable, and that the scheme is otherwise not sufficiently matured to form the basis of a satisfactory measure." 1349 1350 "In grouping the boroughs, we have adopted the principle of geographical convenience coupled with local reasons, which must be understood to be expressed with a certain latitude." 1351 1352 1353 1354 1355 1356 1357 "Undue influence may in certain cases be done away with, but the joint action of a constituency which is surely in accordance with the Constitution will be wholly destroyed. The possibility of bribery will remain the same as before, the expenses will be trebled." "The analogy of the Welsh boroughs does not hold, they being always in the same county so as to admit of united action. Here they are so far divided as not to admit of union for any purpose. Nothing can justify the disfranchisement, under the plea of Reform, of one good constituency to create a rotten borough. Meantime, all the nomination boroughs besides those created by the Bill above 8,000 population are left untouched. The present crude proposal is, in fact, no Reform at all; it leaves all the questions of importance open, and, so far from settling the matter, invites a further Bill." 1358 1359 "Tantalus à labris sitiens fugientia captat Flumina." 1360
 MAJOR ANSON , in seconding the Amendment, said, that when the Government first introduced the Franchise Bill they had made up their minds to deal with the question of Reform by piecemeal. The House thought that the course then taken by the Government was open to grave objection, and the question that the Bill be read a second time, was met by a Resolution declaring that it was inexpedient to proceed with the Bill till the whole question was before the House. On that Resolution a division was taken, and the Bill was read a second time; but, in consequence of the relative numbers on that
 1361 1362 1363 1364 1365 1366
 MR BAGNALL , in supporting the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, declined to admit that those who did so were opposed to Reform, The assertion was that they wore incapable of proof, and it was quite sufficient to meet it with a simple denial. Progress was admitted to be one of the laws of creation; and however good our Constitution might be, it was necessary not only to preserve it, but also to improve it and to adapt it to the present time. Arrangements which once worked well might become anomalies, but it was not Reform to substitute for an existing anomaly a still greater anomaly. The Reform Act itself of 1832 did great benefit, no doubt, to the country, but many of the arrangements then made had since become anomalies. The representation of the country was not what we could wish, but it would be made worse rather than improved by the Re-distribution Bill before the House. He would illustrate this by reference to cases of which he had a personal knowledge, and which told as strongly against the Bill as any that could be brought forward. It would have been much better to have given Members to West Bromwich and Wednes-bury than to have increased the representation of South Staffordshire, in which they were situated: and it would have been much fairer to have given them Members than to have given a Member to Middlesborough. He had nothing to say in disparagement of that place, for he was well acquainted with the marvellous—
 1367 1368
 MR. BARNETT  rose as the unfortunate representative of the first borough named in Schedule A of the Bill (Woodstock) to be grouped with others, and ventured to think that the alliance proposed for his borough with other boroughs would be truly an unholy alliance, and would result in the virtual disfranchisement of the former. He admitted that a question of this kind, being one of national importance, ought not to be argued from isolated cases, and that it would not be right to allow individual interests to interfere with the settlement of such a large question. His justification for drawing attention to the borough in question was that its particular case occurred over and over again in the Bill, and that a number of small instances produced an important aggregate result. The general question of grouping boroughs had been already touched upon by several Members, and especially, in a remarkable manner, by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, with whose views he entirely agreed, and therefore he entirely disagreed with the proposal to unite Woodstock with Abingdon and Walling-ford; he could not see on what principle such a arrangement was based, and, in fact, nothing could be more incongruous than the union of the three places. Abingdon and Wallingford were not in the same county as Woodstock; they were widely separated from Woodstock, Wallingford being twenty-five miles distant from Woodstock; they had no community of interests with Woodstock; no market brought the people of the three places together, and Abingdon and Wallingford were as much separated from Woodstock as if they were a hundred miles from it. Boroughs so circumstanced
 1369 1370 1371
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, that while he expressed his concurrence in the condemnation with which the Bill seemed to be received on every side, he claimed to be at all events disinterested in his opposition to it, inasmuch as he did not think it could, if it were to pass into law, materially affect the character of the constituency of North Hampshire, which he represented. He was, he might add, one of those who had evinced a sincere desire to see the question of Reform, if possible, settled in the present Session; and he had hoped, after the forbearance which had been exhibited on the Opposition side of the House, the second reading of the Bill having been taken after only a few hours' discussion, the Government, acting upon the suggestions which had been thrown out in the comprehensive speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, would have so modified the measure as to make it more acceptable to all parties. The Government, however, had thought fit to press it forward without making any material change, and under those circumstances, the House, he contended, ought not to be asked to go into Committee and then trust to the chapter of accidents, by amending the most objectionable clauses, to convert a dangerous and unsatisfactory measure into a safe and reasonable one. For his own part, having paid considerable attention to the subject, it appeared to him highly inexpedient that any such course should be pursued, because the objections which he and others entertained—especially to the Bill for the re-distribution of seats—involved questions of principle, which could, as matters stood, be fairly raised only before going into Committee by means of Resolutions affirming or rejecting those principles. The Bill as proposed by the Government was full of anomalies. One main objection he had to the Bill was the proposed addition of a third Member to populous places on what was called the "unicorn" precedent. This course, followed further, would lead into enormous difficulties. Places were said to require an additional Member on account of their size. He doubted the principle—but in the case of
 1372 1373 1374 1375 1376
 THE SOLICITOR GENERAL  said, he was not surprised at the opposition offered to the further progress of the measure by the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, because Wells was one of those boroughs which must appear in every Re-distribution of Seats Bill as a place to be either wholly or partially disfranchised. It was to be regretted, however, that the hon. and gallant Gentleman's opposition should have taken the form of the present Motion; for of two things, one—either his objections to the Bill were such as might be met in Committee, or such as could not be so met. If they were not such as could be met in Committee, then the hon. Gentleman's proper course was to have opposed the second reading. If they were such as could be met in Committee, then when they got into Committee was the proper time at which to raise them. It was impossible for the hon. Member for Wells to escape from that dilemma. It was to be observed that there was a considerable difference between the language of the Amendment of which the hon. Gentleman had given notice and that of the Amendment which he had actually proposed. The Amendment as it stood on the Notice Paper was—
 "On going into Committee on the Representation of the People Bill, to move, that this House, although desirous that the subject of the Franchise and of the Re-distribution of Seats should be considered together, is of opinion that the system of grouping proposed in the present Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats is neither convenient nor equitable, and that the scheme of Her Majesty's Government is not sufficiently matured to form the basis of a satisfactory measure." 1377 1378 1379 1380 1381 1382 1383
 MR. SANDFORD  said, it was not at all a complimentary fact to the Government that not a single independent Member had risen to defend their Bill—though perhaps, when they considered what it was, that was not very surprising. At last a Law Officer of the Crown had been found to hold a brief and make a speech on behalf of Her Majesty's Government; and, singular to say, that speech contradicted the expressed convictions both of the noble Lord at the head of the Government and of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. and learned Gentleman the Solicitor General stated that small boroughs were an anomaly. He might be permitted to tell the hon. and learned Gentleman that the British Constitution was an anomaly. Was there no anomaly in the Bill of the Government? Did they not propose that boroughs with 8,000 inhabitants should return the same number of Members as Marylebone with its 400,000? Well, then, he would tell the hon. and learned Gentleman that his speech if good for anything was good for this—a system of electoral districts. Now, though the hon. and learned Gentleman might not be able to appreciate the advantage of small boroughs, he could quote the opinion of the noble Lord at the head of the Government, who had not had seven years, like the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to change his mind to the opposite effect. For what did he find? In a book published last year, and with notes made up to the latest period to support his conclusions, Lord Russell said—
 "But there is another class who ought to form a part of any good representative body whose election is not so sure. I mean those who are distinguished by their learning or their talents, but not by their fortune or their commerce with the world; men who have devoted their youth to the acquirement of English law—laws of nations, history of the Constitution, political economy, but who are excluded by their want of pecuniary means, their temper or their habits from popular contests. For it is not to be denied that a body of 10,000 farmers or tradesmen will choose no man who if not known to them either by his station in the country or by a course of popular harangues. If then you make none but elections by large bodies, you either shut out the aristocracy of talent from your assembly, and constitute them into a body hostile to your institutions, or else you oblige them to become demagogues by profession—things both of them very pernicious and dangerous to the State." 1385 "Practice has proved that the real paradox lies with those who will allow of no ingress into this House but one. If that ingress is to be the suffrage of a large mass of voters, the consequence is a dead level of mediocrity, which destroys not only the ornaments but the force of this House, arid which, as I think, the history of other countries will show, is ultimately fatal to the liberties of the people. Allow me, in explanation of my meaning, to state the case of six men in one line each:—Mr. Pelham, Lord Chatham, Mr. Fox, Mr. Pitt, Mr. Canning, and Sir Robert Peel. Mr. Pelham entered this House for the borough of Seaford in 1719, at the age of 21; Lord Chatham entered it in 1735 for Old Sarum at the age of 26: Mr. Fox in 1764 for Midhurst at the age, I think, of 20; Mr. Pitt in 1781 for Appleby, at the age of 21; Mr. Canning in 1793 for Newport, at "the age of 22; and Sir Robert Peel in 180(1 for Cashel, at the age of 21."—[3  Hansard, c 1386 1387 1388 1389 1390
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was bound to admit that the earlier part of the speech of the hon. Member (Mr. Sandford) was effective; but he supposed it was because
 1391 1392
 COLONEL BARTTELOT  said, that he would not take upon himself the task of replying to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, but would simply observe that if he did not enlighten the juries whom he had the honour to address in the large town of which he was the Recorder with greater clearness than that exhibited in his speech that night, he was afraid they could derive but little assistance from him in the performance of their duties. It was time that the question before the House should be considered with great care. The speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman (the Solicitor General) who had addressed them that evening, did not in any way answer the arguments of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Disraeli). The hon. and learned
 1393 1394 1395 1396 1397
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The Government have no disposition to prevent a full discussion upon this question; but I cannot help expressing my regret at the Motion for adjournment, because having listened to the debate from the commencement, it does not appear to me that it has been a debate on the principle of this Bill, but almost entirely on points of objection that ought rather to be discussed in Committee. If, however, there is a desire for the adjournment I trust we shall be able to proceed with the debate to-morrow, for as all par ties profess to be agreed on the great importance of this question, all patties, I hope, will be prepared to testify their sense of that importance by facilitating arrangements which are intended to bring it speedily to an issue. At all events that is the view of the Government; and in that view I shall presume to make an appeal to my hon. Friend the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian), who has a Motion on the paper for to-morrow with reference to bribery at elections. It stands alone on the Notice paper at pre sent, but I understand that two or three Motions have been added in the course of the day, and of course my hon. Friend cannot be asked to postpone his Motion unless other Gentlemen do the same. [It appeared that Mr. HUSSEY VIVIAN was not in the House.] I suspect my hon. Friend has been misled by the early hour at which the Motion for adjournment has been made, because I believe he was prepared to entertain the question so far as to say that he would withdraw his Motion provided other Gentlemen would do the same. Of course I am not authorized to commit him to anything in his absence, but I would ask whether Gentlemen who have notices for to-morrow are willing to withdraw them if my hon. Friend does the same. ["No, no!"] If they are not, of course the Government are in the hands of the House, and I must in that case fix the adjourned debate for Thursday.
 MR. DISRAELI : I think it will be for the advantage of both sides that some
 1398 1399 1400 A laugh. 1401
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Hon. Members having notices for to-morrow will, no doubt, take what course they think proper—the Government have not attempted to dispute their right to proceed with the Motions standing in their names—but I must say all that has fallen from the right hon. Gentleman with regard to the importance of this Motion is new to the House. We now learn for the first time from the leader of a united party that they were anxious to proceed without interruption with the debate on the Re-distribution of Seats Bill. I thought they had assented to the second reading of the Franchise Bill, and also to the principle of the Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats I ["No, no !"]; but now we find that they merely assented to the second reading in order that the opinion of the House might be taken on the combined Bill. Yet from that time no hon. Gentleman on the other side of the House gave any notice of Motion on which the opinion of the House was to be taken. He says we are now to discuss the principle of the united Bill on the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells—a Motion which was changed in the course of the delivery of the speech by which it was prefaced, omitting all reference to the Franchise Bill, and confining itself exclusively to the consideration not even of the Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats, but to the details of the different boroughs grouped. We are asked by the hon. and gallant Member for Wells to go into a consideration of these details, which might be dealt with in Committee. He did not even object, to the principle of the Bill, but we are now told by the right hon. Gentleman that there is no wish to place the question on this narrow issue—whether Wells shall retain its present share in the representation. ["Oh, oh!"] I understand that is the sense in which the right hon. Gentleman accepts the Amendment and speech of the hon. and gallant Member. We are willing to meet him on that issue—although it is now distinctly understood that no hon. Gentleman opposite had the courage to give notice of any Amendment to that effect. No Member has ventured in terms to move, according to ordinary Parliamentary usage, that the Speaker do leave the Chair this day six or this day three months, and we are left to deal with this ambiguous Motion, placed on so
 1402
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Sir, the Secretary of State appears to have been slumbering, and his slumbers must have begun at a very early period, for he could not have heard the observations of the Chancellor of the Exchequer at the commencement of the proceedings this evening. What did he tell us? He took up the Notice paper, and going over the various Notices, he came to that under the name of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells. And what did he say of it? The Secretary of State says that the Government now knows for the first time the importance of the question at issue. But the Chancellor of the Exchequer told us at the commencement of the evening that there was one Notice of Motion which went to the root of the whole matter. [The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER made an observation.] I am very sorry I cannot carry on a conversation with the Chancellor of the Exchequer. I. am afraid it would be out of order. [Sir GEORGE GREY: The notice was altered.] The Secretary of State says the Notice of Motion has been altered. How altered? It was not moved as it originally stood, because it was decided that it could not come in order as an Amendment to the Instruction of the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock. But, as I heard the Notice moved by the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, it was almost in the very words, and certainly in sense, the same with what I have now before me. It stated the desire of the House that the two subjects—[The CHANELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: No, no !]—it is better that there should be no mistake. The Motion was in these words—
 "That this House, while ready to consider the general subject of a Re-distribution of Seats, is of opinion that the system of grouping proposed by Her Majesty's Government is neither convenient nor equitable, and that the scheme is otherwise not sufficiently matured to form the basis of a satisfactory measure," "That the scheme of Her Majesty's Government is not sufficiently matured to form the basis of a satisfactory measure." 1403 1404
 MR. CARDWELL : We are charged with endeavouring to stifle discussion, our desire being that the discussion shall proceed at the earliest possible moment, and that it shall not be indefinitely or needlessly delayed. I appeal to the judgment of the House whether the charge just made of endeavouring to stifle discussion is properly attributable to those who desire immediately and promptly to proceed with the discussion, or to those who seek to overlay the discussion with extraneous and unimportant matters leading to tedious and unprofitable delays. If the Motion was of importance, as hon. Gentlemen say, they ought to be as anxious to proceed with the measure as Her Majesty's Government. No objection has been offered by the Government to the Motion for adjournment; their only objection is to not proceeding with the Bill at the earliest possible moment.
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, he had an abstract Resolution on the paper for next night, relating to the important subject of bribery at elections; but he was willing to waive his right in favour of the more important subject of Reform. He believed that the Government were in earnest to force this measure through the House, and he would postpone his Motion if the hon. Gentleman opposite, the Member for Honiton (Mr. Baillie Cochrane), would postpone his Motion. [Mr. BAILLIE COCHRANE: No, no!] Well, then, if the hon. Member would not yield, neither would he give way, and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli) who was speaking with the hon. Member for Honiton could no longer say that the Government were not prepared to discuss the question. He would not take the responsibility of standing between Her Majesty's Government and the discussion of this measure, and he put it to other hon. Members to stand up and say what he had stated—that they were prepared to withdraw their Resolutions, and allow the Government to proceed with this great measure.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that
 1405
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, that as his Motion had been pointedly alluded to, he must recall to the attention of the House the state of the case. He had given way once before on this Franchise Bill. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exhequer then said that he did not intend to introduce the Re-distribution of Seats Bill because there were only twelve nights for discussing the Franchise Bill, and he did not calculate that private Members would postpone their Motions to suit the convenience of the Government. The right hon. Gentleman had since changed his mind, the whole of his policy with it, and introduced the other Bill; and was the whole business of the House to be postponed night after night to suit the pleasure of the Chancellor of the Exchequer? The Opposition was not interfering—nor did they wish to do so—with the progress of the measure, or its free discussion; but it was not right that private Members should be called upon to postpone Motions of great importance, simply to carry a measure which he considered the most mischievous that had
 1406
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  was at a loss to conceive why Her Majesty's Government should be so anxious to press this measure on for discussion. He was unable to appreciate the observations of the right hon. Gentleman the Home Secretary when he said that the Motion had not been given in sufficient time to allow the Government to meet it with a direct negative. Now, the reason why it was not done rested with the Government, and not with hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House, inasmuch as no House was made on Friday last. He concurred in the propriety of adjourning the debate.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I move the adjournment of the debate to Thursday next.
 MR. EARLE  said, that after what had occurred at an earlier hour of the evening, he was not surprised that the hon. Gentleman the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian) should be ready to withdraw his Motion, because that Motion was superseded by the Instruction moved by the hon. Baronet the Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald Knightley). No doubt, as the result of that Instruction, they would have another Bill from the Government, for he could not concur in the present opinion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer that it was incumbent on the hon. Baronet to move clauses to carry out his Instruction. It might as well have been said that it was the duty of the noble Lord the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor) to introduce a Re-distribution of Seats Bill. The Home Secretary complained that no legitimate Amendment had been moved to the propositions of the Government. In the opinion of the right hon. Baronet the only legitimate Amendment would have been, "That the Speaker leave the Chair this day six months." But he (Mr. Earle) would remind the Home Secretary of the Amendment moved in 1859 by the present Prime Minister. The notice which now stood in his name related to the Danubian Principalities, a question which he believed every hon. Member would admit to be important, and which he (Mr. Earle) believed to be urgent. In his opinion the affairs of the people of those provinces were at present under what the hon. Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) would describe as "a sinister influence," by which,
 1407
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, he wished to ask, Why the special pay of Constables on Duty at the Houses of Parliament, which was fixed by Sir James Graham at 7 s. s.
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, he desired to ask a question of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and, disclaiming any personal feeling in the matter, declared that he called attention to the subject solely in the interest of private Members and with a view to procure a better regulation of the business of the House. On the Friday night before the adjournment for the Whitsuntide holidays, as hon. Gentlemen were aware, the House was counted out; and on last Friday no House at all was made. On that account he charged the Government with a public breach of faith with regard to the House and also with a private breach of faith with respect to himself. As to the public breach of faith he wished to know, Whether, when, some years ago, the private Members gave up Thursday night for the sake of public business, it was not expressly understood that the Government should regard Friday as one of their own nights so far as making a House and keeping a House, in order that private Members might bring forward matters with which they concerned themselves? and as to himself, he would remind the House that he had an important notice on the paper for the Tuesday after the first night of the Reform debate; but that, desiring
 1313 1314
 MR. LAYARD : No.
 MR. LAYARD  said, that the Conference at Paris had come to the conclusion that the election of Prince Charles as Hospodar was illegal, and instructions had been sent to the agents of the different Governments who were parties to the Conference that no steps would be taken to recognize Prince Charles.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he could not concur with his hon. Friend in the view which he took of the circumstances of the Bill. He took quite a different view of the matter. He did not want to interfere with his hon. Friend, who, of course, would exercise his own discretion.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he de-desired to know, whether the Conference had authorized any actual intervention in the Principalities?
 MR. KNATCHBULL-HUGESSEN  said, in reply, that when the special pay of these officers was fixed at 7 s. s. s. s. s.
 MR. H. B. SHERIDAN  hoped the hon-Member for Buckingham would not go into the question, but would leave it to be discussed on his Motion when the Terminable Annuities Bill was again under discussion.
 MR. HUBBARD  complained that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had not dealt frankly with him in respect of the Bill. When the subject of the Bill was first brought forward his right hon. Friend appealed to him not to delay the passing of the Resolutions in Committee of Ways and Means, as his doing so would delay the collection of Customs duties. He gave way; but on several subsequent occasions the order was placed in such a position on the paper that he had no opportunity of introducing the Motion of which he had given notice. The 24th instant was the first time he had an opportunity of saying anything on the subject, and then his right hon. Friend taxed him with making the Motion on the second reading of a Bill with which it had no connection, and accused him of obstructing the public business. He would not go on with the Motion now, but would make it another time.
 MR. P. WYKEHAM MARTIN  (Rochester)  said, that nothing could be further from his desire than to oppose any proposal of his to the united wish of the House. His position, however, was somewhat peculiar; he gave notice of his Motion some weeks ago in consequence of a public pledge to use his utmost efforts to accomplish the object he had in view, without any wish to impede the advance of public business. He should in Committee move an Amendment to Clause 16, according to notice, and he might state that he had received many assurances from both sides of the House that he should have fair play. He would, therefore, in deference to the united wishes of the House, give way to the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, and he hoped, when he should have the opportunity of moving his Amendment, hon. Gentlemen opposite would recollect the concession he had made.
 MR. BARING : Sir, it is not correct that the  Bellerophon
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said the hon. and gallant Gentleman proceeded upon the supposition that when the Re-distribution of Seats Bill became law it would be for the Government to arrange the terms on which the towns would be grouped together. He did not think that would be the case. The provisions of the Bill would fix what places should be grouped, and also, he apprehended, the principal town in the group. It was fair to discuss whether Abingdon should or should not be the principal town in its group, but it would be hardly fair
 1438
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in reply, said he was not aware that necessity existed for the adoption of any special measures in order to procure an increase in the number of insurance and savings banks offices in connection with the Post Office. The establishment of these offices required much consideration. Their extension, however, had been very rapid. For instance, in the course of last year, 1865, the number of new Money Order offices was 300, and the new Post Office savings banks, 240; while 1,500 Money Order offices and 2,000 offices at which the business of insurance and annuities was transacted had been opened. The total at the close of the year stood thus: The Money Order offices numbered 3,500 and the savings bank offices 3,300. it would, therefore, be seen that the process of increase in the number of these offices had been a rapid one, and he saw no reason for departing from the present system of dealing with them. Again, with regard to the remuneration of Postmasters, that question as it affected Post Offices and savings banks was held in suspense for a certain time, till sufficient experience had been gained to enable the Government to arrive at a conclusion in respect
 1439
 MR. BUXTON  said, he wished to ask the President of the Board of Trade, What the result has been of the official inquiry respecting the railway accident that occurred at the Caterham Junction, April 30, by which three lives were lost and several persons were seriously injured?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, the question which has been put by the Member for Halifax is one of very great importance, and divides itself into three branches. The first has relation to the difference in the rate of interest at present charged by the Bank of France and that charged by the Bank of England —the one 4 per cent and the other 10 per cent. The second has relation to the inquiry instituted not very long ago in France, into the operations of the Bank of France, and the causes which led to a rise in the rate of interest; and the third is, whether we are prepared to institute a similar inquiry into the operations of the Bank of England. As regards the first of these points, I am cognizant, as the world is cognizant, of the difference in the rate of interest charged by the Bank of France and that charged by the Bank of England; and we might go further, and observe the condition of other banks in Europe, one of which, the National Bank of Prussia, charges at the present moment very nearly the same rate as the Bank of England. I am aware that an inquiry was instituted some time ago into the working of the system of currency in France; but I am not aware whether the object of that inquiry has yet been completely attained. But as regards the principal part of the question of my hon. Friend, whether we are prepared to institute an inquiry into the operations of the Bank of England, and the causes of the excessive fluctuations in the Bank rate of discount, I would simply say these two things. I think there are some obvious reasons why the rate of discount must be expected to fluctuate in this country in a greater degree and with greater frequency than in other countries, as, for example, in France. In England we transact a far greater mass of business, with a much greater equality of our currency, than they do in other countries, and therefore we have a much smaller reserve. The holders of money in England likewise turn their money to account much more uniformly than is done in other countries. I do not say that these are reasons why from time to time the working of our monetary system should not be made the subject of inquiry; but in reference to the circumstances of the present time we are still in a position more or less analagous to that which prevailed two or three weeks ago when the Bank Charter Act was sus-
 1441
 MR. BARING : Sir, no information of any present having been given to Mr. Jackson has been received at the Admiralty. Lord Frederick Kerr, who was captain of the  Black Prince,
 MR. BUXTON  said, that if the Resolution of the hon. Member for Glamorganshire should be agreed to, he intended to move the following addition:—
 "That in every case where any voter is reported by any Election Committee as having received a bribe for voting or abstaining from voting for any candidate at any election of a Knight of the Shire or Burgess to serve in Parliament, the Attorney General shall be required to examine the evidence in such case, and to prosecute the person who has offered or given the bribe, should the evidence, in his opinion, be sufficient to render a conviction probable." morale, 1446 1447 1448
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : No person can be more alive than I am to the fact that corruption prevails in many places to an extent which makes it clearly the duty of the House to use the best means at their disposal for suppressing it, or to the importance of examining carefully such evidence as we have upon the subject. I hear, however, not only with something like pain, but with a feeling that it by no means tends to facilitate the end we have in view, that sort of wholesale denunciation of the constituencies with which we have just been favoured by the hon. Member for Nottingham (Mr. Denial Osborne). I cannot agree with the hon. Member that the present extent of corruption in this country is at all equal to that which we have reason to believe prevailed in former times. Although there is much still to be lamented, and much room still for improvement, yet there are signs of progressive improvement in this particular, and a diminution upon the whole of the area of corruption. I do not think this denunciation is true of the counties generally. I do not think it is true of the larger constituencies in the country —the larger cities and boroughs; nor is it true of a very considerable proportion of the small but independent and honourable constituencies that bribery extensively prevails among them. I had the honour formerly of representing a large borough (Plymouth) where there was invariably a contested election; but never hut once do I remember any signs or indications of bribery or corruption in that town; and I am perfectly sure that, on that one occasion, unless the tempter had gone out of his way to tempt that constituency, they would not have gone out of their way to solicit bribes. I believe that this is by no means an exceptional case, and therefore I protest against the universal and indiscriminate censure which seems to be cast upon all the constituencies by the hon. Member. [Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: No!] I accept with pleasure the hon. Gentleman's correction. [Mr. BERNAL OSBORNE: I said it was the Members.] Well, but if
 1458 "That it is the opinion of this House that any person found by a Royal Commission to have been guilty of offering or giving a bribe to any elector in order to induce him to vote, or to abstain from voting, or on account of his having voted or abstained from voting, for any candidate at an election of a Knight of the Shire or Burgess to serve in Parliament, should thenceforth and for ever be disqualified from exercising the Electoral Franchise or from sitting in Parliament." 1459 1460 "That in every case where any voter is reported by any Election Committee as having received a bribe for voting or abstaining from voting for any candidate at any election of a knight of the shire or burgess to serve in Parliament, the Attorney General shall be required to examine the evidence in such case, and to prosecute the person who has offered or given the bribe, should the evidence, in his opinion, be sufficient to render a conviction probable."
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that as he was the only Member now in the House
 1461 "How in countries where conduct is free men can be prevented from selling that which they will not consent to give, and how when law is formal and scrupulous and beset on all sides with guards and defences for the protection of innocence it can be made to retain in all cases sufficient celerity for the overtaking of guilt, is a problem with which the authors of these complaints never seem to trouble themselves."
 COLONEL SYKES  said, it was too clear for denial that all previous legislation with regard to bribery and corruption at elections was ineffectual. To acquit parties of participation in bribery because it could not be proved that they were cognizant of it, was a mockery. If the money was not paid at the time it was paid afterwards, and hon. Members knew the obligation rested upon them to repay the sums which had been disbursed on their account. It appeared to him that there was a simple remedy for these evils, and that was to increase the constituencies. Past history showed that it was more easy to bribe small than large constituencies. If a man's pocket was long enough to bribe 300 or 400 voters it might not he long enough to bribe 4,000 or 5,000. If the House really wished to put at end to bribery at elections, he did not believe it was impossible to effect that object. If the House wished to take a step in the right direction, it should insist upon the smaller constituencies being increased to such an extent as to render it impossible for a single individual to bribe the voters.
 MR. OTWAY  regretted to say that very discouraging circumstances attended this discussion. The hon. Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian), professing the greatest horror and detestation of bribery and corruption, brought forward what he thought was a remedy for the evil; his hon. Friend (Mr. Buxton) followed, and in his opening remarks proceeded to disparage the merits of the plan proposed by the hon. Member for Glamorganshire, and every gentleman who succeeded him, while professing equal detestation of bribery and corruption, disparaged not only the efforts of the two hon. Members to exterminate that bribery and corruption, but all the efforts that had ever been made with the like object. Finally, to cap the climax, they had the hon. Member for Glamorganshire himself, who introduced the subject to the House, giving up his own proposition in consequence of some indefinite promise given for some indefinite period by the Attorney General, to the
 1469 1470
 MR. KINNAIRD  said the Bill did not ask for additional powers; it was merely a finance Act, rendered necessary to comply with the wishes of Parliament.
 COLONEL C. LINDSAY  said, that Abingdon had been inserted in the principal place in Schedule A; and that had induced him to put the Question.
 COLONEL C. LINDSAY  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in the event of the Redistribution of Seats Bill becoming Law, he would make the constituency of Abingdon the principal town of the proposed new Electoral Boroughs, considering that Abingdon is the central town of the proposed group, the county town of Berkshire, and possessing a Borough-proper population more than double that of the Borough-proper populations of either of the two Boroughs included in the same group?
 LORD EUSTACE CECIL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether it is the intention of the Government to establish Savings Banks, Annuity, and Insurance Offices wherever Money Order Offices or Savings Banks Offices already exist in the United Kingdom; and whether it is the intention of the Government to raise the remuneration of all Postmasters who are willing to undertake the management of Money Order, Savings Banks, and Insurance Offices, with a view to an increase of those Offices throughout the Country?
 MR. AYRTON , in moving that the Bill be read the third time that day fortnight, said, he desired to bring under the notice of the House that the question of the supply of gas to the metropolis, had been the subject of inquiry by a Select Committee appointed so recently as the 6th of March, and which had only just reported. A few Sessions ago an Act was passed by Parliament entitled the Metropolitan Gas Act, having for its object to regulate the
 1435
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, that no one who had attended to the discussion could suppose that any measure for the prosecutions of mere individuals for bribery would be attended with greater success in checking it than previous legislation had been. The true remedy was to make it a corporate offence, and to treat constituencies which were proved guilty of systematic bribery in the same way that Legislature had treated St. Alban's and Sudbury. The whole constituency must be enlisted in its suppression by the danger of the summary disfranchisement of their borough. He had voted for the Motion of the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) yesterday in the sense in which Mr. Pitt had proposed a remedy for bri-
 1467 "That it is the opinion of this House that the most effectual and practical measures should be taken for the prevention both of bribery and expense in the election of Members to serve in Parliament. That for the future when the majority of voters for any boroughs shall be convicted of gross and notorious corruption before a Select Committee of this House appointed to try the merits of any election, such borough shall be disfranchised, and the minority of voters not so convicted shall be entitled to vote for the county in which such borough shall be situated. That an addition of knights of the shire and of Representatives for the metropolis shall be added to the state of the representation."—[ Hansard's Parliamentary History,
 MR. M'LAREN  said, that the question of how to prevent bribery had induced the hon. and learned Baronet opposite (Sir George Bowyer) to refer the House back to the Roman law, but he (Mr. M'Laren) was not obliged to go so far back, but only to an Act passed by the Parliament of Scotland three years before it was extinguished as a legislative body; and he was the more anxious to do so because the theory then acted on was altogether different from the theory at the present time. At present the whole desire seemed to be to fix the guilt upon the poor man who had accepted a bribe and to punish him for so doing. And, although the Resolution before the House proposed that any man who offered a bribe should also be punished, no one supposed that the Member of Parliament concerned would himself be the offerer of the bribe; and therefore no one could suppose that the Member of Parliament on whose account the bribe was given would himself be punished. Now, the
 1475 "It is necessary for the security of the nation that the Members of Parliament be at absolute freedom in their voting, and that all occasions of tempting them to be biased in voting be obviated."
 MR. AKROYD  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether his attention has been called to the difference in the rate of interest at present charged by the Bank of France, now 4 per cent, and that charged by the Bank of England, now 10 per cent, and to the prejudicial effect which this difference of no less than 6 per cent in the value of money has upon British mercantile and manufacturing enterprize, both in the Home and Foreign markets; whether he is aware that, by an Imperial Decree passed in January, 1865, an inquiry was instituted into the operations of the Bank of France, more especially as to "the causes which at frequent intervals, and at almost periodical epochs, have brought about the rise in the rate of interest;" and whether, seeing that the variations in the rate of interest have been more frequent and more extreme on the part of the Bank of England than on that of the Bank of France, he is prepared to institute a similar inquiry into the operations of the Bank of England, and into the causes of the excessive fluctuations in the Bank rate of discount, as also into the effect thereby produced on the trade and industry of this country; and furthermore to extend the
 1440
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that power ought to be given to Election Committees in cases where bribery was proved to have been practised—in such cases as Galway, for instance, to trace the money to the source from whence it had come.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to move for Correspondence on the subject of an alleged contravention of the existing Law by certain Roman Catholic Lotteries—
 MR. WHALLEY  said, with reference to a statement which appeared in a public newspaper on Saturday, the 26th instant — Church Times Black Prince "Their Chaplain, the Rev. H. Marshall Jackson, a chasuble of white silk, with white and gold orphreys, accompanied by a written address expressing deep thankfulness to their Lord and Saviour for giving His Flesh and Blood in that Eucharistic Sacrifice, for the more worthy celebration of which the Church has appointed special vestments to be used; and also respect and affection for the priest through whose teachings they had been led to embrace the Catholic faith."
 MR. HENRY BAILLIE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Whether it is true, as reported, that the  Bellerophon,
 MR. PAULL  said, that all who had heard the hon. Member for Nottingham must be delighted that he had again found a seat in this House—he was always amusing and sometimes instructive upon any subject on which he thought fit to speak.
 1456 1457
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  rose to move the Resolutions of which he had given notice. The hon. Member said, that the Notice he had placed upon the paper was the result of convictions he had formed during the various Election Committees on which he had sat. It must be admitted on all hands that the law as it at present stood
 1442 1443 1444 Vict.,
 MR. HUSSEY VIVIAN  said, that after the expression of opinion on the part of the Government by the Attorney General, which he interpreted to be an acceptance of the principle of the Resolution he had ventured to propose to the House, although the Government considered that in the form proposed it would be undesirable for the House to come to such a Resolution, he could have no hesitation in saying that he would not trouble the House to go to a division. He hoped, however, that the Government would deal effectively with the question. But, as Chairman of the Gal-way Election Committee, he felt bound to protest against the extraordinary doctrine, at variance with every principle of justice, which the hon. Member for Dumbartonshire (Mr. Smollett) had laid down, to the effect that where bribery was proved to have existed in a borough, the Member in whose favour the bribes were given must either lose his seat or prove that the money had been spent by his adversaries
 1468
 MR. WHITESIDE  agreed with the right hon. Baronet that the true remedy lay in the corporate disfranchisement of the offending constituency. He thought that one of the best votes the House had ever come to was the vote for disfranchising the borough of St. Alban's. Every respectable man in the borough approved of the disfranchisement.
 MR. SPEAKER  reminded the hon. Member that he was out of order in referring to what had been said in a past debate.
 MR. DODSON  said, that while he concurred in thinking that great caution should be exercised in granting increased powers to Gas Companies, yet they should take care not to deal harshly or unjustly towards those Companies. The Bill had been treated in a somewhat unusual manner. Though an unopposed Bill, it had been sent to an hybrid Committee upstairs, where it was delayed for many weeks, and it would be a very hard measure to refuse the third reading when they had the assurance of the Chairman of the Committee that its clauses were not opposed to the recommendations of the Committee. It was simply a Bill to raise capital to carry out the wishes of Parliament, and any objection to it ought to have been raised at an earlier stage. If any general legislation were found necessary on the Report of the Committee with regard to Gas Companies in the metropolis, the Company promoting this Bill, like other Companies, would become subject to it.
 MR. SMOLLETT  said, he was unable to support either the Motion of the hon. Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. HusseyVivian) or the Amendment proposed by the hon. Member for East Surrey (Mr. Buxton). The former proposed that those who offered and those who received bribes should alike be disqualified from exercising the franchise or sitting in Parliament. That was a very simple proposal, and, if adopted, would prove by no means severe in practice. Candidates did not throw bank notes broadcast among the electors whose votes they wooed; they went with purity of election inscribed on their banners, and with professions of intense devotion to Reform which they hated in their hearts. They employed base tools to corrupt the electors. It did not matter whether those men were entitled to exercise the franchise themselves or not; in most cases they did not value the privilege in the least—all that they wanted was to be well paid for the job they had taken in hand, with power to secure a similar engagement when the next election occurred. Nor did such men ever aspire to the honour of a seat in Parliament; and if they did so aspire, it was very unlikely they would ever be returned, even to a Reformed Parliament. The Resolution, then, of the hon. Gentleman would only catch the small fry, and allow the rich sinner to escape through the meshes of the net. But he knew of a very simple way of stopping electoral corruption if that course were really desired. If the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the subject would devise a better court wherein to try charges of electoral corruption, he would better serve the end he had in view. He could not imagine tribunals less fitted to try cases of electoral corruption than those appointed by the House. The Members of Election Committees were, or affected to be, trammelled by the strict rules of evidence which pre-
 1463 1464 1465 The Owl. Laughter.
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : The hon.
 1451 History of Party, quid pro quo. "He who would gain the votes of British tribes Must add to force of merit force of bribes." 1452 Laughter. Laughter. 1453 s. d. Geo. 1454 1455 The Law Magazine, "The ordeal of an Election Committee has terrors for all except those whose lavish expenditure keeps up the system of corruption at elections, hut it is at once the most costly and the most unsatisfactory of our tribunals. The right of freely choosing representatives is one which the electors enjoy by the law of the land; the question whether that right has been legally exercised is one for a purely judicial tribunal, and not a mere House of Commons' privilege." "Though the grossest bribery may be proved the Committee who declare the election void on that ground are always induced to add that there was no evidence that the unseated Member was aware of the bribery practised on his behalf."
 MR. BERNAL OSBORNE : If I wanted any proof of the somewhat languid indifference existing in this House on the question of bribery and corruption, I do not think I need go further than the present evening. I would beg hon. Members who have lately been introduced into the House of Commons to mark the contrast between yesterday evening, when the subject of bribery was brought forward, and this evening, when we wish to deal practically with the question. The contrast is somewhat startling. But I must at the outset protest in the strongest language which a Member of Parliament is permitted to use against the insinuations which were thrown out by the hon. Member for Birmingham. When he said that any hon. Gentleman who voted and was very much impressed—
 MR. M1LNER GIBSON : Sir, Colonel Yolland, the Railway Inspector, who inquired into the accident that occurred at the Caterham Junction, states in his Report, a copy of which will be laid before Parliament in a few days—
 "That the collision was evidently the result of the system of starting trains by hand-signals, and it is satisfactory that this system is to be given up on the London, Brighton, and South Coast Railway."
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  replied that he could only say that the Government did not propose to take any course different from that which they ordinarily pursued with
 1437
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  indorsed the charge of his hon. Friend the Member for Nottingham, that Government—Government generally—were not really anxious to put an end to bribery at elections. Both in 1841 and in 1857 the Government took measures to convey money to certain constituencies in order to effect the objects they had in view. The policy of Governments generally seemed to he to do all that was possible to keep up the expenditure at elections, for the more costly they were, the more effectual would a threat of disso-
 1466
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, he did not think it would be of any use to increase the penalties against bribery—the true remedy was a very simple one—the ballot. [ A laugh. 1462
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  said, the gas monopoly was the greatest monopoly in the world, and its supply ought to be put under very stringent regulations, and this was a good time to commence it. No new Gas Company should be allowed to divide 10 or even 7½ per cent. The Bill ought to be postponed on the grounds asked.
 MR. ALDERMAN LUSK  seconded the Amendment.
 MR. POWELL  said, he was not surprised that his hon. Friend the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian), who had acted as Chairman of the Committee to inquire into the petition from the borough of Galway, should have brought the subject of bribery under the notice of the House. He was sure that if there was anything on the face of the globe which had proved itself to be wholly indestructible and uninfluenced by decay, it was the corruption of the town and borough of Galway. He himself (Mr. Powell) had served on that Committee— they had had witnesses before them in considerable numbers who described the occurrences which had taken place with a simplicity and an unaffected force which evinced that they were detailing circumstances which they did not consider in any degree unusual, but which they looked upon as the natural incidents of a contested election. It was true that in some cases they seemed to throw a thin veil of secrecy over their proceedings, but that veil appeared to be regarded by them rather as a custom of trade or a usage of business than as anything from which men ought to shrink as ashamed of what they had done. It would be in the recollection of the House that in the year 1857 a Committee was appointed to inquire into the election which had then taken place for the borough of Galway, and that Committee wrote down certain men as guilty of bribery, and the Commission which followed wrote down more men as similarly guilty. The Committee which had sat during the present Session had also written down men as guilty of bribery, and the Commission which would be appointed would no doubt write down more as guilty of the same offence; but the persons indicated did not regard this as a disgrace, for it brought upon them no shame and no consequences which they deemed inconvenient or damaging to their reputation. The mode in which bribery was conducted in Galway in 1857, as it appeared from the evidence, was as follows:—The voter went to the house of a gentleman, whose name he would not mention, and was instructed to put his hand through a hole in the wall. He did so, and something was placed in his hand; on withdrawing his hand he found he
 1449 s. 1450
 SIR GEORGE BOWYER  said, he had listened to many discussions on the subject of bribery and it had struck him as a remarkable circumstance that no one had ever taken into consideration the actual difficulty of the case and assigned a reason for the existence of that difficulty. The fact was that bribery belonged to a class of offences, well known to all writers upon theoretical law, in which there was no one to complain except a third party, who probably would experience great difficulty in ascertaining the crime and still greater difficulty in proving it. This was shown by the circumstance that the only way in which bribery could be proved was by indemnifying parties to the offence. Another difficulty was this. Almost all other offences carried with them some kind of disgrace or slur; but it was a strange circumstance that the offence of bribery did not in public opinion bring any disgrace upon the persons who were guilty of it. He had heard it suggested that Parliament ought to make the offence disgraceful; but as Montesquieu had remarked, in his  Spirit of Laws, 1472 ambitus Lex Julia de Ambitu; ambitus, 1473 1474
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, his hon. Friend the Member for Glamorganshire (Mr. Hussey Vivian) had been charged with insincerity because he had announced his intention of withdrawing his Resolutions; but though the Motion of his hon. Friend had given rise to what he hoped might be a very useful discussion, his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General had shown that the Resolutions would have no effect unless they were embodied in an Act of Parliament, and that before this
 1471
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE , Chairman of the Select Committee appointed to inquire into the operation of the Metropolitan Gas Act, said, this Bill was entirely in accordance with the Report of the Committee — namely, that the illuminating power should be greater and the cost of the gas much
 1436
 MR. PEASE  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, Whether Her Majesty's Government propose to take any action in the construction of Harbours of Refuge, having special reference to the Report of the Commissioners on Harbours of Refuge, 1859, and to the annual Returns of wrecks presented to this House?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, I am sorry that it falls to my lot to oppose the second reading of this Bill. At the same time, I must say I never rose to discharge a disagreeable duty with a more perfect conviction that the House will concur in my proposal that the Motion of my hon. Friend be rejected, should he persevere in pressing it upon the House. I think it better to move its rejection rather than to pick out from it, as might easily have been done, some invidious topics. It would have been easy for me to have pursued the course which is in fashion elsewhere—to have taken some of the provisions of the Bill of my hon. Friend and have exposed them in an invidious isolation; to have said that the whole measure was so ill-considered that it was much better not to proceed with it. Had I, however, adopted such a course, I should have deemed myself acting in a manner unworthy of this House, and justly offensive to my hon. Friend. I am sure, therefore, I may rely upon him to appreciate the motives which induce me—should he intend to proceed to a division on the Bill—instead of occupying any narrower ground, to meet the Motion for the second reading by the Amendment that the Bill be read a second time this day six months. I do not deny to my hon. Friend that there is something abstractedly good in an educational test, provided it could be reduced to a form of extreme simplicity. If some test, simple, definite, and unambiguous in its character,
 1478 A laugh. Gazette Gazette 1479 primâ facie s. s. primâ facie 1480 1481 1482 s. d. s. d. s. d. 1483 s. 1484 d. d. toties quoties d. s. s. d. 1485
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Clause 9, I believe, is the one applicable to the case, if any is so, and that says that—
 "The said Civil Service Commissioners shall, with all convenient speed, after the receipt of any such application, appoint a day, being not later than four calendar months after the receipt thereof, for the examination of the candidate by whom the same shall have been made, and of any others whose examination may, in their judgment, be properly and conveniently held at the same time and place, and shall give written notice thereof to the town clerk of the city or borough for which the said candidate seeks to be registered as a voter."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Very good. I beg pardon. With that provision my hon. Friend gets rid of the objection about journey-money; but he does not get rid of my objection, when viewed in respect to such a place, for instance, as the city of Wells—a very distinguished city in our Parliamentary annals it is likely to be. I say that three or four separate examinations may be required under the terms of the Bill to be held in the city of Wells for the purpose of admitting three or four voters. That may not be a burden to the people examined, but it will be a burden to the public so entirely out of proportion to the requirements of the case, that I really think my hon. Friend can hardly be serious in making the proposition. I think he would find it necessary to do in his case what is done in reference to the Civil Service examination. He would have to appoint places where
 1486 s. s. s. s. s. vivâ voce s. 1487 1488
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I know he must; but that is not sufficient. What course is to be pursued in the small places in the country where, perhaps, three men will apply for examination in the course of the year? Will my hon. Friend tell me that if one man in a population of 5,000 applies for a place to be examined, that he is to be examined in that place?
 MR. BRIGHT : If I could regard this measure introduced by the hon. Gentleman
 1512 1513 1514 1515 1516 1517 1518 1519 1520
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : Sir, I desired to rise earlier in the debate, in order to reply to the challenge of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Duchy, who expressed his surprise that I had not. already asked for statistics showing the number of persons to be enfranchised under this Bill. But I think the right hon. Gentleman forgets the exact position in which we stand. When we were discussing the second reading of the Bill for the better representation of the people, we were discussing a Bill to the figures and other details of which the Government had absolutely pledged themselves. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had been going about the country breaking his bridges and burning his boats; and we knew that it was the determination of the Government to adhere to the £7 franchise; and therefore we could only discuss the Bill upon the assumption that that franchise formed an integral portion of it. If the hon. Gentleman the Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) had taken the same line, we should have been placed in a similar difficulty with regard to his Bill. If the hon. Member had declared that he had passed the Rubicon, and was going to stand or fall by the chief details of his measure, I should feel a difficulty in voting for the second reading. But he has brought forward this Bill, as I understand him, merely to sanction a principle; he has not said that he is resolved to adhere to every detail, or even to every important detail; and we may therefore hope, if the House should now sanction the principle, that in Committee we may induce him so to modify the Bill that there may be no danger of admitting extravagant numbers to the representation, or of passing impracticable provisions. If we should get into Committee, one point I should certainly deem essential—namely, that the franchise it would bestow should be regarded as supplemental and complementary to other qualifications for the franchise. I believe it is the general feeling of the House—I am sure it is the feeling of this side of the House—that an educational qualification, meaning thereby the qualification of intelligence, no matter how ascertained, is essential to fit a man for the proper exercise of the franchise. At the same time, it is felt we should by no means divorce our legislation from that principle of property and occupation which is already contemplated by our
 1521 1522 1523
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I wish in a few words to recall the attention of the House, and I hope of the country, to the very remarkable position in which this measure is placed by the speeches which have been delivered upon the other side. The noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Viscount Cranbourne), and the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Dublin University (Mr. Whiteside), professing to vote for the principle of this Bill upon its second reading, have, if I understand their speeches rightly, supported it as a restric-
 1524 1525 1526
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he desired to say a few words before the conclusion of the debate, to which he had listened with very great interest. Many remarkable statements, and some strange phenomena, had been witnessed in the course of the discussion; but he must say that the phenomenon which struck him as the most curious was the conjunction between the Attorney General and the hon. Member for Birmingham. They had heard a great deal of grouping lately, and some very strange instances of it had been brought under the attention of the House in connection with the scheme of the Government. But strange as it might appear that such towns as Westbury and Wells, or Lymington and Andover, should be grouped together, he thought that neither these nor any of the other equally curious groupings in the Bill were so remarkable as the group which had been presented to the House by his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General towards the close of his speech. His hon. and learned Friend got up and told the House that the silence which he had so long preserved upon the subject of the extension of the franchise was not occasioned by any dissatisfaction because the measure of the Government went too far, but that on the contrary that if he had been consulted, he should have concurred with the hon. Member for Birmingham in the opinion that it did not go nearly far enough; that upon this point he and the hon. Member for Birmingham were at one, and that the extension of the franchise ought not to stop short of household suffrage. That was a remarkable coincidence. They knew that groups were not confined to two, and that sometimes a third was added, and he (Sir Stafford Northcote) was going to ask to be allowed to associate himself in a certain sense, and with perfect consistency, with the hon. and learned Gentleman and the hon. Member for Bir-
 1534 1535 1536 1537 1538 1539 1540 1541 1542
 MR. DENMAN  said, that he had a distinct recollection of signing the document to which the hon. Member (Mr. Beresford Hope) had alluded—which he thought must have been fully twelve years ago. He was as
 1501 1502
 MR. DENMAN : What I said was that, if this Bill were carried it would have the effect of swamping the middle classes; but that if a more stringent test were applied—a proceeding to which I objected—then it would bring in very few of the working classes.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  said, that he certainly did not rise to object to the very Conservative tone of the right hon. Gentleman's speech. The right hon. Gentleman had expressed great horror of the Bill of the hon. Member for Hull (Mr. Clay) because it would admit so many working men to the franchise; to all that he (Lord Robert Montagu) did not intend at the present moment to demur. He could not, however, but think that the debates on the subject of Reform which had lately taken place in that House, especially of the speech of the right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe), and, above all, the speech of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire, (Mr. Disraeli), had had some effect on the Chancellor of the Exchequer, seeing that he had made a speech which had been welcomed by all on the Opposition side of the House. There was one thing, however, in the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer which was objectionable, and that was the tone of dictation which he assumed at the commencement of his speech. Before many hon. Members now in the House occupied their seats he said, "It is quite impossible to permit such a Bill as this to pass."[The CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER: I did not say," it is impossible."] It seemed to him that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had assumed a tone of dictation; but he would let that pass, as it would add nothing to his argument. The right hon. Gentleman considered this Bill—in its "invidious isolation," as he expressed it; adding that, perhaps, a greater number of his arguments might have had weight if the Bill
 1489 1490 s. d. s. 1491 s. d. s. d. 1492 1493
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  congratulated the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down on the possession of one advantage highly important to a Cabinet Minister—a most conveniently short memory. While taunting the Conservative Bide with dislike of anything resembling education as a qualification for the franchise, he forgot that only a few years ago, at a time when he had not reached his present height of political eminence, before he was a Cabinet Minister, or even a Member of the House of Commons, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, then the leader of the House, brought forward a Reform Bill full of educational franchises. That Bill was met by an inarticulate howl from the other side, which denounced all educational qualifications as "fancy franchises," a term of reproach which had since attached to all ideas of emancipating education, till the hon. Member for Hull had the courage to bring forward the present proposal. He did not say that the Bill in its present shape could pass or ought to pass any more than he asserted that the two Government Reform Bills, which were read a second time without a division on the main question, ought in their present shape to become the law of the land. Those Bills had been forced down their throats, and they had therefore the equitable right, if they chose, to express their freedom of action by bringing up any parallel measure to the same stage. Those two Bills, certainly not with the goodwill of the Treasury Bench, had since been referred to a sort of joint-stock amalgamation committee, so that there was in being at the present moment no Reform Bill actually before the House, but only two half Bills out of which sanguine persona ventured to hope
 1500
 MR. ADDERLEY : Sir, the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just sat down (the Attorney General) summed up his attack upon this side of the House by retorting upon us one of those pointed expressions which have become celebrated from the mouth of the right hon. Member for Buckinghamshire. He stigmatizes our opposition as an "organized hypocrisy." He says that we are employing in favour of an enfranchising Bill disfranchising arguments. But let me ask him whether every Bill for the extension of the elective franchise short of universal suffrage is not a disfranchising Bill of necessity; for what is any Bill qualifying the elective franchise but a Bill to disfranchise all below its limit? [ Laughter. 1527 1528 1529 s. s. 1530
 MR. CLIVE  said, that as his name appeared on the back of the Bill, he might be allowed to make a few observations in reference to it. He held that the principle of the Bill was a sound one; but he must confess that he never thought so well of its provisions as he did after listening to the speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. Gentleman had urged numerous objections to the details of the Bill; but they were all such as could be remedied in Committee. With regard to the expense of registration, his hon. Friend (Mr. Clay) had been unwilling to charge it upon the country; but amendments in this direction might very easily be made. Again, the Chancellor of the Exchequer made an objection to the plan of examination, which showed that he could not have read the Bill, while his observations with respect to signatures were too trifling to be noticed. The right hon. Gentleman seemed to have exerted himself to say all that was possible against the Bill, but his efforts only showed how little objection could really be taken against it. The Bill now before the House would impose a certain limit to the franchise; whereas if it were fixed at £7 it would soon come to £5, and at last to universal suffrage of the worst description, He objected to fixing the franchise at £7, for it seemed nothing more than a compromise between those who were struggling to reduce it to £8 and those who wished it to be £6. He believed that there were large numbers of people in the great towns qualified for the franchise, and his desire was to introduce the best men and keep out the worst. On this ground there could be no
 1494 Horace Virgil
 MR. GOSCHEN : I am sure that every Gentleman sitting on this side of the House must have listened with the greatest satisfaction to the right hon. Gentleman; for he has just told us that fitness, after all, constitutes a very important element in determining the propriety of investing a man with the franchise—a view altogether in conflict with that of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast, who has stated that fitness is no element in the consideration of the question. We have heard it laid down by hon. Gentlemen opposite, throughout the whole course of these debates, that the maintenance of the balance of power is the great object to be considered, and that the main point to which we must look is whether by any new measure the working classes would be likely to form a majority in the different constituencies of the country. But how does this tally with the speech to which we have just listened? Indeed, I am surprised to find that the noble Lord the Member for Stamford (Viscount Cranbourne) has not already risen in his place and called for statistics for the purpose of ascertaining how many working men would be entitled to vote under this Bill. If that is a good argument against the proposal of the Government it must also be good against the present proposal. Quite a new light broke upon me when the noble Lord the Member for Huntingdonshire (Lord Robert Montagu) declared that this was a scheme which might be fairly
 1498 1499 bonâ fide
 MR. CLAY : The Bill says that the examination shall be made in cities and boroughs.
 MR. CLAY : The candidate for the certificate sends his residence with his application.
 MR. CLAY  said, the Bill contained provisions for that purpose.
 MR. WHITESIDE : The hon. and learned Gentleman guards himself with "ifs" and "ands." The Chancellor of the Exchequer, however, said that the working men would not be at the trouble of going through an examination of two hours' duration, and that they would object to the payment of a shilling. That must have been said in censure of the working classes. What is the case in Switzerland, where universal suffrage prevails? I remember on one occasion falling in with a Swiss gentleman who discussed the subject of government and popular education. He remarked, "We could not exist as a Republic unless we had an educational test." "But," I said, "suppose a man does not choose to educate his son?" "Oh," replied he, "we take the child by force, and send him to be educated whether the father likes it or not." The Chancellor of the Exchequer would, doubtless, feel indignant at this if he resided in Switzerland; but, nevertheless, he would have to submit. It will be seen, therefore, that in Switzerland, where no property qualification is required, a high standard of education is reached. And when a proposal is made to reduce the franchise in this country, and to give a preponderating power to one class, is it unfair, unreasonable, or inexpedient to take into consideration the propriety of combining an educational test
 1511
 MR. WHITESIDE : My hon. and learned Friend who has just sat down (Mr. Denman) has told the House that, having at a former period entertained an opinion in favour of an educational qualification, he changed his mind some considerable time ago. He has not favoured the House with the arguments which originally convinced him, in favour of an educational
 1503 s. 1504 1505 "But it is not that kind of suffrage I sanction—a mere brick and mortar representation. I accompany that with an educational test; that the man who is intrusted with power to send Members to Parliament should have the discrimination and judgment to do so with care, and when he has that, then give him the power to do it." "It is the fact that one person is not as good as another, and it is reversing all the rules of rational conduct to attempt to raise a political fabric on a supposition which is at variance with fact. Putting aside for the present the consideration of moral worth, of which, though more important even than intellectual, it is not so easy to find an available test, a person who cannot read is not as good for the purposes of human life as one who can. A person who can read, but cannot write or calculate, is not as good as a person who can do both. A person who can read, write, and calculate, but knows nothing of the properties of natural objects, or of other places and countries, or of the human beings who have lived before him, or of the ideas, opinions, and practices of his fellow-creatures generally, is not so good as a person who knows these things. A person who has not, either by reading or conversation, made himself acquainted with the wisest thoughts of the wisest men, and with the great examples of a beneficent and virtuous life, is not so good as one who is familiar with these. A person who has even filled himself with this various knowledge but has not digested it—who could give no clear and coherent account of it and has never
 1506 "The perfection, then, of an electoral system would be that every person should have one vote, but that every well-educated person in the community should have more than one, on a scale corresponding as far as practicable to their amount of education, and neither of these constituents of perfect representative system is admissible without the other. While the suffrage is confined altogether to a limited class, that class has not occasion for plural voting, which would, probably, in those circumstances, only create an oligarchy with in an oligarchy. On the other hand, if the most numerous class, which (saving honourable exceptions on one side or disgraceful ones on the other) is the lowest in the educational scale, refuses to recognize a right in the better educated, in virtue of their superior qualifications, to such plurality of votes as may prevent them from being always and hopelessly outvoted by the comparatively incapable, the numerical majority must submit to have the suffrage limited to such portion of their numbers, or to have such a distribution made of the constituencies, as may effect the necessary balance between numbers and education in another manner." 1507 "But reading, writing, and the simple rules of arithmetic can now be acquired, it may be fairly said, by any person who desires them, and there is surely no reason why everyone who applies to be registered as an elector should not be required to copy a sentence of English in the presence of the registering officer, and to perform a common sum in the rule of three. The principle of an educational qualification being thus established, more might hereafter be required when more had been given; but household or even universal suffrage, with this small amount of educational requirement, would probably be safer than a much more restricted suffrage without it. Reading, writing, and arithmetic are but a low standard of educational qualification, yet even this would probably have sufficed to save Franco from her present degradation. The millions of voters who, in opposition to nearly every educated person in the country, made Louis Napoleon President, were chiefly peasants, who could neither read nor write, and whose knowledge of public men, even by name, was limited to oral tradition." 1508 "No lover of improvement can desire that the predominant power should be turned over to persons in the mental and moral condition of the English working classes; and no Conservative needs object to making the franchise accessible to those classes at the price of a moderate degree of useful and honourable exertion. To make a participation in political rights the reward of mental improvement would have many inestimable effects besides the obvious one. It would do more than admit the best and exclude the worst of the working classes." "That all should be admitted to the franchise who can fulfil these simple requirements is not to be expected, nor even desired, unless means were also taken to give to the higher grades of instruction additional or more influential votes. Without such a provision the educational test adapted for permanency would require to be much more stringent." "What should now be pressed on the consideration of practical statesmen is, that any lowering of the pecuniary qualification for the purpose of giving the franchise to a greater number of the working classes should be combined with the further condition of an educational test." "It would be a most substantial improvement in the existing representative system if all householders, without distinction of sex, were admitted as electors, on condition of proving to the registering officer that they could read, write, and calculate." "This, then, is one important principle which the expected Reform Bill, without going to any length in innovation which need alarm anybody, may inaugurate." 1509 lazzaroni 1510
 MR. LOCKE  said, he was at a loss to understand the speech of the right hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, for the latter part of it contradicted the first. In the beginning he said that if the Bill of the hon. Member for Hull were added to the Government Bills it would limit them, and at the end of his speech he appeared to think that the three Bills were tending to universal suffrage. He (Mr. Locke) could not understand how things which were tending in the same direction could be made to limit each other. The right hon. Gentleman had treated the hon. Member for Birmingham very unfairly. He had read that hon. Gentleman's speeches for many years, and he had never known him to express opinions on this subject different from those which he had this day expressed. He would challenge any hon. Gentleman to show from the speeches of the hon. Member for Birmingham, and he had addressed many meetings on the subject for some years past, that he ever desired to reduce the franchise in this country except upon principles already established. The hon. Member for Birmingham had always advocated household suffrage—whether with payment of rates or without was simply a matter of discussion, and the Attorney General had stated that household suffrage where the householder was rated was the proper suffrage. Hon. Gentlemen opposite should remember that the question of payment of rates, in connection with the franchise, had been a bone of contention from the Reform Bill in 1832
 1531 â fortiori 1532 s. 6d. 1533
 MR. MONTAGU CHAMBERS  said, he wished to explain his reasons for voting against the Bill. Although he had listened attentively to the debate, he had failed to discover that anything liked a fixed idea prevailed with regard to the principle of the Bill, or any precise explanation as to what was contemplated by it. He was unable to discover whether it was education alone or education coupled with some other qualification that should give the vote. He would therefore start with supposing that they meant education alone; and having listened to the speech of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Birmingham, and certain philosophic extracts that had been read from the writings of the hon. Gentleman the Member for Westminster, he could not ascertain what was meant by education. Was it mere book learning? Was it the instruction which
 1544 "That any such person, to be entitled to a certificate of educational qualification under this Act must pass, in conformity with the provisions therein contained, a satisfactory examination in reading, writing from dictation, and elementary arithmetic, that is to say in simple addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division; and also addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division of money." s. d.
 MR. ACLAND  said, that nobody was more anxious than he was to hear the hon. Member for Westminster, and if that hon. Gentleman wished then to address the House he should very willingly give place to him. [Mr. J. STUART MILL shook his head.] It was a remarkable fact that nobody had explained what was the real principle of this Bill. The leader of the Opposition had maintained a most doubtful silence, and had left the tactics to be pursued to be gradually revealed by those of his followers who had taken part in the debate. They had had various statements as to the nature and intention of that measure. The right hon. Member for North Staffordshire (Mr. Adderley) had told them that new restrictions were to be combined with the proposed £7 franchise, that that Bill was to be a clog and an additional check upon the extension of the suffrage. The hon. Baronet who had just spoken (Sir Stafford Northcote) only accepted the measure as a safeguard; and then he let out the result of the most remarkable silence maintained on the Opposition side for the last fortnight. ["Oh, oh !"] Well, he had himself been engaged in other duties in the country at Whitsuntide, and he had tried in vain to find out what was to be the move on the other side on Monday; but at length they had heard from the hon. Baronet that he was determined to oppose any reduction of the franchise, and that he, in fact, regarded that Bill as a substitute for the extension of the suffrage. Not being himself a pupil of the hon. Member for Birmingham, nor even scarcely having the honour of his acquaintance, he must nevertheless bear his personal testimony to the fact that in 1859 that hon. Gentleman had held just the same language before his constituents as he had held in that House. The hon. Member for Birmingham, when denouncing "fancy" franchises before his constituents, made use of the expression that he was a Conservative in the sense of going upon the old principles of the Constitution. The present Bill proposed to establish an official test for the qualification of a voter, irrespective of providence, character, or prosperity. That test was to be an examination of a purely abstract kind—not an examination as to real knowledge or practical skill—not a proof that a man had done or could do anything beyond working a sum.
 1543 employés.
 MR. EWART,  retaining the opinions
 1495
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I wish to express as briefly as I can the view which I take of this question. No observations have yet been made upon the subject in which I am so disposed to concur as those we have just heard from my hon. Friend opposite. It is on the very ground advocated by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the closing words of his speech—namely, the present position of this difficult and anxious question of Reform—that I am quite unable to concur in the sweeping censure which the right hon. Gentleman has thrown upon this Bill. I doubt whether there are many Members in this House—I do not believe there are many Members even on the Treasury Bench—who entertain any serious idea that the Bill proposed by the Government can pass in the present Session, even though we were to sit here during the month of September or the month of October—which I venture to think that we shall not do. I do not believe we have yet become submissive enough to accede to that most extraordinary proposal. Under these circumstances, I think we are deeply indebted to any hon. Member who in good faith and sincerity contributes materials towards the ultimate solution of this difficult subject; and I believe that that good service has been rendered by the hon. Member for Hull in placing this Bill before us. I listened attentively to the speech
 1496 1497
 COLONEL SYKES  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Pirn and his son Yo-ho, and their Tartar and Mongol friends from Pekin, who have accompanied Mr. Hart, the Imperial Inspector of Customs, and are now in England, are accredited to the British Government in any official capacity, or are merely recommended to its courtesies as travellers from China?
 MR. FREVILLE-SURTEES  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, If the Compulsory Church Rate Abolition Bill became law, whether it would deprive, or not deprive, the Vicar of Stockton-on-Tees for the time being of the sum of £20 a year, which was settled on him "for ever hereafter" by an Act of Parliament passed in the reign of Queen Anne?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, in reply, that he had to thank the hon. Member for kindly sending him an extract of the Private Act under which he thought this sum was levied. Having examined that Act, and taken an opportunity of conferring with his hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General upon it, he had to state that they had no doubt at all that it was entirely beside the purpose of the Compulsory Church Rate Abolition Bill. It appeared to relate to a sum which was to be raised by authority of Her Majesty's Justices of the Peace, and which was not at all dependent upon any vote of a parochial community. The intention of the Bill was solely to affect funds raised by the parochial community, and consequently the Government thought the Act was entirely outside the provisions and purview of the Bill. If the hon. Gentleman should see reason to doubt the soundness of that opinion and should think it necessary to insert any words having relation to such cases, there would be every disposition to give them a fair consideration when they got into Committee on the Bill.
 MR. GOLDSMID  said, he desired at the outset to thank the hon. and gallant Member for Harwich (Major Jervis) for kindly giving way to him on that occasion; for, as one of the Members who had been designated "the dying swans," the House would conceive that he was reasonably anxious to say a few words upon the Bill now before the House. The borough he had the honour to represent (Honiton) was one of those small boroughs which were most particularly affected by the Bill; however, though he might speak in its name,
 1555 ignis fatuus. 1556 Cries of" 1557 1558 De minimis nan curat lex, 1559 1560
 MR. SCOURFIELD  said, that the system of grouping proposed by the Government would require great consideration, and that its effect would be to entail increased expenditure on candidates seeking Parliamentary honours. The feeling of the majority of the hon. Members who voted for the Motion of his hon. Friend the Member for Northamptonshire (Sir Rainald
 1593 1594 2d., 1595 1596 1597 "For it cannot be maintained in these times and in this House, that whenever a majority of the House of Commons object to a particular measure, or to a portion of a particular measure, which the Government of the day may propose, they are, by expressing that objection, censuring the Government in such a manner as to render it necessary for the Government to consider whether they should or should not resign their offices. If that doctrine were to be laid down in the present state of Parliament since the lie-form of Parliament in 1832, I maintain that it would be utterly impossible for any Government, unless it were far wiser than any that has yet existed, to carry on for twelve months the administration of the affairs in this House.—[3  Hansard, 1598
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I spoke of the last absolutely finished copy. The substance of those statistics, as far as regarded the general bases of the measure, had been in our hands for weeks before that time, but was not in a state to be placed on the table of the House until all the columns had been filled in.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : I am most deeply sensible of the difficulty of following such a speaker as my right hon. Friend. To a speech such as has been just delivered it would be upon any question difficult to reply, but upon a question of such moment as this the difficulty is increased immeasurably. It is an intellectual delight of the highest order to listen to my right hon. Friend. He speaks with infinite wit, with wonderful eloquence and power; he raises and conjures up spectres of evil, and he is lost in contemplation of the ruin which is threatening our land. He is so acute a critic that I venture to think no one who hears him can doubt that whatever Bills a Government which does not possess his confidence might lay upon the table for the alteration of the franchise or the redistribution of seats would be dissected and cut to pieces with the same lively imagination, the same profound logic, and the same admirable arguments that we heard to-day. My right hon. Friend reminds me of a painting which the painter thought so good that he exposed it to public view, and invited all who saw it to
 1651 1652 1653 "The question, sooner or later, must regulate the formation of Governments and the construction of parties. It is the interest of some to divert your attention from these great questions, and to talk to you of the management of finances and the maintenance of peace—two very important topics, no doubt. You may depend upon it that you must not allow your mind or attention, whatever the conclusions you may arrive at, to be diverted from these great questions if you wish to keep the position as Englishmen which your fathers occupied before you." 1654 1655 1656 1657 1658 1659 1660 £7, 1661 1662 "You all know that Reform has never been my trade—I have never been much In it; but I hold the opinion, if there is to be any Reform, it is of no use if it does not go down-hill, and take in a much larger number than at present. I do not understand lateral Reform." "When there are a good many people of that sort in Parliament it gives any Reform a very dirty chance." "I have not been able to make out why a man who rents an £8, or £6, or a £5 house should have a vote. I cannot see it. I have, therefore, come to this conclusion—if there is to be a change we should go back to our old system of household franchise. That is my opinion; and being of that opinion I am not in favour of a change." 1663 1664 1665 1666
 COLONEL TAYLOR  moved that Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a Burgess to serve in the present Parliament for the Borough of Bridgwater, in the room of Mr. Henry Westropp, whose election has been determined to be void. The evidence taken before the Election Committee had been in the hands of Members for a fortnight, and he hoped that those who had read it had come to the same conclusion as the Election Committee that it was not desirable that a Commission of Inquiry should issue on this case.
 MR. YORKE  drew attention to two cases in which it was reported that corrupt practices had prevailed, and in one of which only a Commission was issued, the Member being unseated.
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether it is true that the Chilean Minister has demanded his passport; and, if so, what are the grounds for this rupture of friendly relations with that Government?
 LORD FREDERICK CAVENDISH  said, that he would trespass for a short time only on the indulgence of the House while he explained his reasons for cordially opposing the Amendment, and cordially supporting the measure of the Government.
 1612 1613 1614 1615
 LORD HENRY SCOTT  said, the Committee of which he was a Member could not conscientiously report that corrupt practices did not extensively prevail, because the evidence compelled them to unseat the Member; but, on the other hand, the evidence was not sufficient to warrant the Committee in recommending a Commission.
 MR. LAYARD : Sir, the Chilean Minister has not asked for his passport; he has delivered letters of recall, but no reasons are assigned for that recall. From despatches received only yesterday from Chile, there is no reason to fear that there will be any interruption of the friendly relations between the two countries.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that these Chinese gentlemen, with their Tartar and Mongol friends, as the hon. and gallant Member called them, had not been officially accredited to us, but they had come to England introduced by our Minister in China, to whom they had been very strongly recommended by the Chinese Government, in order to see the country and its institutions. He need hardly say that Her Majesty's Government would do all in their power to render their visit useful and agreeable. He bad every reason to hope that this preliminary visit would lead to a more formal Mission, and would tend greatly to improve the relations between the two countries.
 MR. LAYARD  said, in calling attention to the wording of the hon. Gentleman's question, he seemed to confound two things which differed. The Declaration of Paris related to neutral goods on board enemy's vessels and enemy's goods on board neutral vessels. The decrees said to have been issued by Austria and Prussia announced the willingness of the Governments of those countries not to touch the enemy's property in enemy's vessels; that is to say, not to interfere with private property at sea, although belonging to the enemy, if they were assured of reciprocal treatment. He believed the decrees to that effect had been issued; but he did not know what reply Italy had made upon the subject. With respect to the second part of the question, he could
 1552
 MR. LAYARD  said, in reply, that a
 1551
 MR. LAYARD  said, he must confess that he did not exactly understand his hon. Friend's question; but, concluding that he referred to Schleswig and Holstein he would remind the hon. Member that neither Schleswig nor Holstein had yet been assigned to Austria or Prussia; and that,
 1554
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that as many hon. Members wished to address the House in the discussion on this Bill, it could hardly be expected that the debate could be brought to a close to-morrow night. He thought, however, he might undertake, on the part of his Friends around him, to state that they did not desire it to be prolonged beyond Monday. He trusted the Government would consent to come to an understanding as to its closing on that night.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  hoped the House would not agree to the Motion for the issue of the Writ, but that they would bear in mind that only on Monday last they agreed to a Motion to discourage and put down bribery as far as they possibly could. They would stultify themselves and negative that decision if they issued this Writ. He was unable to understand why the usual course should be departed from by the issue of a Writ in such a case. What sort of spectacle would they present to the country if they voted for putting down bribery on Monday, and on Friday flew in the face of an Act of Parliament?
 MR. GOSCHEN  said, that before he proceeded to reply more in detail to the arguments of his hon. Friend who had just sat down and to those of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells (Captain Hayter) who had proposed the former Amendment, he thought it was due to the former hon. Gentleman to say there was a great difference between the Amendment which he had moved and that proposed by the hon. and gallant Member for Wells. [Mr. GOLDSMID said, he had not moved any Amendment.] He had thought that his
 1561 1562 1563 1564 1565 1566 1567 1568 1569 Laughter. and 1570 1571 1572
 MR. CHILDERS : Sir, it is not the case that the Revised Survey of Ireland has been discontinued. The counties of Louth and Dublin are now being revised; and there is no intention of discontinuing the regular course of the Survey.
 MR. CANDLISH  said, he regretted to see that it was the intention of hon. Gentlemen opposite to destroy, if possible, the Government measure. It had been described as democratic, dangerous, and revolutionary; but in his opinion a more moderate and conciliatory measure could not have been submitted to the House by any Government. As statistics had been referred to on the other side of the House, he would quote some to the House in support of his view of the Government scheme. In England and Wales, the male population was 5,300,000. Of that number at least 4,000,000 belonged to the working classes. Out of the whole number of the male population only 900,000 possessed the franchise. Of the 4,000,000 of working men it was proposed to admit 200,000, or only 1 in 20, to the possession of the franchise. Of 1,300,000 above the condition of working men 700,000 possessed the franchise, or 1 in 2. Did they propose any revolutionary measure? So far from it, they proposed not to admit 400,000 working men, but 200,000, and 200,000 above the condition of working men, so that the majority would remain as it was before. In their enfranchisement, out of 3,800,000 unenfranchised working men, the Government proposed to add 1 in 19. Of the 600,000 unenfranchised persons above the condition of working men they proposed to add 200,000, or 1 in 3. After the carrying of this revolutionary measure, as it was called, the proportion of the working men admitted to the franchise would be 1 in 9; whilst the proportion of those above the condition of working men would be 2 in 3. And yet this measure was characterized as revolutionary by hon. Gentlemen opposite. In fact it was impossible for any Government who dealt with the subject at all to propose a more limited measure of enfranchisement. He was quite astonished to hear the hon. Member who spoke last talk of a county grievance. He could not conceive that the measure created any county grievance as against boroughs. If the House looked at the relative growth of county and borough constituencies it would be found that
 1625
 MR. DILLON  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, Whether the Revised Ordnance Survey of Ireland has been completed; and if not, why it has been discontinued, and whether it is the intention of the Government that it shall be completed?
 MR. J. STUART MILL : Hon. Gentlemen opposite in considerable numbers have shown a very great desire to inform the House, not so much as to their views on the question before us, as with regard to what I have said or written upon the subject, and they have also shown a great desire to know the reasons I have for the course which they suppose I am going to take upon the question. I should be sorry to refuse any hon. Gentleman so very small a request, but I must first of all correct a mistake made by the right hon. Baronet (Sir John Pakington) who has just sat down. I did not allow myself to be persuaded not to speak upon the Bill of my hon. Friend the Member for Hull (Mr. Clay). I had various reasons for the silence which I observed on that occasion. One of these I have the less hesitation in stating, because I think it is one with which the House will fully sympathize—a decided disinclination for being made a catspaw of. What other reasons I had may possibly appear in the very few observations that I am now about to make, for the gratification of those hon. Gentlemen who show so much friendly concern for my consistency. No doubt it is a very flattering thing to find one's writings so much referred to and quoted; but any vanity I might have felt in consequence has been considerably dashed, by observing that hon. Gentlemen's knowledge of my writings is strictly limited to the particular passages which they quote. I suppose they found the books too dull to read any further. But if they had done me the honour to read on, they would have learnt a little more about my opinions than they seem to know. It may be that I have suggested plurality of votes and various other checks as proper parts of a general system of representation; but I should very much like to know where any Gentleman finds I have stated that cheeks
 1591 £7 1592
 MR. WYVILL  supported the Amendment, and expressed the hope that the hon. Baronet would divide the House.
 MR. LOWE : Mr. Speaker, we are now called upon to go into Committee on a Bill which has never been read a second time. The two halves of it have been read, each of them a second time, but the whole measure we have never until this moment had before us. The first half this House was induced—or shall I say coerced?—into reading a second time without knowledge of the other part. The second half was really hurried on so fast to a second reading—only an interval of a week being given to master all its complicated details—that I, for one, was quite unable to take part in the discussion on the second reading for want of time to make up my mind as to an opinion by which I should be willing to stand. I hope, therefore, the House will allow me, even at this stage, to question the principle of the measure. What is that principle? I must apologize to the House for the monotonous nature of my complaints, which are, I think, justified by the uniform nature of the provocation I receive. That provocation is that the Government keeps continually bringing in measures, attacking, as it seems to me, the very vital and fundamental institutions of the country, and purposely abstains from telling us the principle of those measures. I made the same complaint, I
 1626 1627 "When each fair burgh, numerically free, Returns its Members by the Rule of Three." d priori 1628 1629 6d. 1630 1631 "It is a character of extreme diversity of representation. Elections by great bodies, agricultural, commercial, or manufacturing, in our counties and great cities are balanced by the right of election in boroughs of small or moderate population, which are thus admitted to All up the defects and complete the fulness of our representation." "For instance, Mr. Thomas Baring (he goes on to say), from his commercial eminence, from his high character, from his world-wide position, ought to be a Member of the House of Commons. His political opinions, and nothing but his political opinions, prevent his being the fittest person to be a Member for the City of London." "But the borough of Huntingdon, with 2,654 inhabitants and 393 registered voters, elects him willingly." "Sir Roundell Palmer is,  omnium consensu, 1632 "Dr. Temple says, in a letter to the  Daily News, from politics because they felt themselves hopelessly swamped.'" "It is very rare to find a man of literary taste and cultivated understanding expose himself to the rough reception of the election of a large city." "The small boroughs by returning men of knowledge acquired in the study, and of temper moderated in the intercourse of refined society"— "Restore the balance which Marylebone and Manchester, if left even with the £10 franchise undisputed masters of the field, would radically disturb." "But, besides this advantage, they act with the counties in giving that due influences to property without which our House of Commons would very inadequately represent the nation, and thus make it feasible to admit the householders of our large towns to an extent which would otherwise be inequitable, and possibly lead to injurious results." 1633 "These are the reasons why, in my opinion, after abolishing 141 seats by the Reform Act it is not expedient that the smaller boroughs should be extinguished by any further large process of disfranchisement. The last Reform Bill of Lord Palmerston's Government went quite far enough in this direction." 1634 1635 1636 1637 1638 1639 1640 1641 "But our new Jehu spurs the hot-mouthed horse, Instructs him well to know his native force, To take the bit between his teeth, and fly To the next headlong steep of anarchy." 1642 argumentum ad hominem. "Here we stand on the Constitution, by thunder, It's a fact of which there are bushels of proofs, For how could we trample upon it, I wonder, If it wasn't continually under our hoofs." 1643 "At once all law, all settlement control, And mend the parts by ruin of the whole. The tampering world is subject to this curse To physic their disease into a worse." 1644
 MR. LOWE : Well, Sir, that finished document is what I call a copy. It may be that the Bill was originally drawn for £6 and £12, and that at the last moment £7 and £14 were substituted, and that it was regarded as a matter of little consequence what the exact figures were. As to the element of time, I suppose, however, I must not say anything, or the right hon. Gentleman will be angry with me. The twelve nights that he gave us for the Franchise Bill are pretty well gone, and we have now got what he never contemplated we should have, a Re-distribution Bill as well. I suppose I had better say nothing about the support the Government will have, or I had better veil it in a dead language and say,  Idem trecenti juravimus. 1645 1646 "By Heaven, methinks, it were an easy leap, To pluck bright honour from the palefac'd moon; Or dive into the bottom of the deep, Where fathom-line could never touch the ground, And pluck up drowned honour by the locks; So he, that doth redeem her thence, might wear. Without co-rival, all her dignities." 1647 "If he that's in the battle slain Be on the bed of honour lain, Then he that's beaten may be said To lie on honour's truckle bed." "What is honour?…a trim reckoning.…I'll none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon, and so ends my catechism." 1648 1649 1650 "To-morrow! Oh that's sudden 'spare it! spare it! It ought not so to die."
 MR. MORRISON  hoped hon. Members on the Opposition side of the House would not vote inconsistently with the vote they gave on Monday last, and suggested that there might be discourtesy in dealing with the question without waiting for the expected clauses on the subject of bribery.
 MR. BAXTER  said, it appeared to him that the speech of the right hon. Member for Droitwich (Sir John Pakington) ought to have been delivered against the second reading of the Government Franchise Bill. Similar arguments had been used during the debates, and had been over and over again refuted. He (Mr. Baxter) trusted that the House of Commons would never consent to the right hon. Baronet's suggestion to refer the British Constitution to a Royal Commission. But he rose to reply to the questions which had been addressed to him by the right hon. Gentleman opposite, and he would express in the frankest manner possible the views entertained by himself and by other hon. Members near him with regard to the political situation in which they now found themselves placed. In the month of March in introducing the Franchise Bill, the Chancellor of the Exchequer told the House and the country that the reason why Her Majesty's Government introduced the Franchise Bill alone, reserving all other questions of Reform for subsequent consideration, was, that it was impossible adequately to discuss and fairly to dispose of the main question as to the lowering of the franchise during the present Session of Parliament if the other minor questions were to be brought before them at the same time; and the opinion he (Mr. Baxter) had held from the beginning was that the Chan-
 1599 1600 1601 1602 1603
 MR. GREGORY  said, he would now beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether Austria, by an Imperial Decree dated May 13th, and Prussia by a Decree dated May 19th, have agreed, in case of war, to confer on the enemy's merchant ships at sea the same immunities as have been granted to neutral vessels by the Declaration of Paris (1856); whether this principle is set forth in the Italian Maritime Code, and that, therefore, no declaration to this effect was required from Italy; and, whether Her Majesty's Government has received any recent communications from Foreign Powers upon this subject?
 MR. GREGORY  said, he rose to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether a change has taken place in the succession to the Vice-royalty of Egypt, from the eldest agnate of Mohammed AH to the descendants of the present Viceroy; if so, how that change of succession has been effected, and whether there is any information on the subject which may be laid before the House?
 MR. DU CANE  said, that whatever opinion there might be as regarded the abstract merits of the Government measure of Reform, it must be, at all events, a matter of universal congratulation that at last they stood face to face with a visible and a tangible scheme. The House now knew the best and the worst of the intentions of the Government as regarded the extension of the franchise and the re-distribution of seats, and hon. Members were no longer called upon to discuss the details of one-half of the scheme in utter ignorance as to what the details of the other half was to be—whether it would be in harmony and symmetrical proportion to it. But although the intentions of the Government on these two heads were no longer a mystery, it was still a perfect mystery to him what substantial advantage the Government had really gained, either for the cause of Reform or for themselves, by the production of their measure in that piecemeal and fragmentary manner which, up to Monday last, they had deliberately chosen to adopt. The only result of this extraordinary method of procedure had been to lose two or three months, at least, of invaluable time; and, after all that had been said and done, the House was only upon the very threshold of the main discussion. True, they had read a second time the two Bills for reducing the franchise and re-distributing seats; but it could not be said that in these second readings the Government had gained any very substantial victory, or that the main question of Reform had made substantial progress. All that they had hitherto done had been to affirm two abstract principles, which he did not think any hon. Member, not even the most obstinate old Tory, would now venture to dispute, which were that a re-distribution of seats and an extension of the franchise ought to form a part of any general and comprehensive scheme of Reform. But it was only on
 1616 1617 1618 1619 "Apiece of joinery so curiously indented and so whimsically dovetailed—so variously inlaid, such a piece of diversified mosaic, such a tesselated pavement, without cement, here a bit of black stone and there a bit of white, that indeed it was a very curious show, but utterly unsafe to touch and unsure to stand on." 1620 1621 locus standi. 1622 1623 "You have the Pyrrhic dance as yet— Where is the Pyrrhic phalanx gone?" 1624
 MR. WATKIN  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether under the "Treaty of Navigation between Her Majesty and the King of Prussia," signed at Gastein the 16th day of August, 1865, it was intended to include the shipping of the territory captured by Prussia and Austria?
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, that he had hoped the debate would be brought to a
 1669
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, it was a mistake to suppose that Reports of this kind were made by Committees without ulterior measures being taken. A Commission would be moved for in the case of Galway. Inquiry by Commission did not depend upon the unseating of a Member—the House had agreed to an Address for a Commission in the case of Yarmouth, although the Member was declared duly elected. He regretted the absence of the Chairman of the Bridgwater Committee, because they had taken a course that placed the House in difficulty, by reporting in the words of the Act, "that corrupt practices prevailed extensively," and afterwards stating that the evidence would not justify a Commission—an opinion which, he hoped, future Committees would, if necessary, embody in their Reports. The Act of Parliament did not say that in every case of this kind Parliament should address the Crown for a Commission; but only said that upon an Address from both Houses a Commission should issue; and, therefore, the Act of Parliament would not be violated if there were no Commission.
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  moved an Amendment that a Commission be appointed to inquire into the proceedings connected with the Bridgwater election. The Committee which had already sat on the case, had reported that at the last election for that borough corrupt practices had extensively prevailed, and the usual course in such cases was the appointment of a Commission to investigate further into the matter. He believed there was an honest desire on both sides of the House to put down bribery and corruption, which formed a plague-spot on the Constitution of the country, and they ought to strike at the root of the evil and find a remedy for it. The last election for Bridgwater had produced so much demoralization there that the innocent men had sent in a petition praying that the borough might be disfranchised.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. MOWBRAY  said, that when his hon. Friend the Member for the Montrose burghs (Mr. Baxter) rose he thought they had at last found the individual whom the hon. and learned Member for Mal-don (Mr. Sandford) on Monday night, and the right hon. Member for Droit-wich that evening, had inquired for in vain, an independent supporter of the Government, prepared to defend and justify the Reform measures which they had introduced. But in this he was sadly disappointed, for his hon. Friend delivered a speech, the first portion of which ought to have been delivered against the Instruction moved by the right hon. Member for Kilmarnock to unite these two Bills and which had been unanimously adopted by the House. His hon. Friend had condemned the Government for having encumbered the Franchise Bill with the Re-distribution of Seats Bill, and for having referred both Bills to the same Committee; he censured the Chancellor of the Exchequer for having threatened them with an autumn Session, the fatigues and anxieties of which he intimated pretty plainly he was not prepared to undergo; and then he proceeded to lecture the whole Conservative party on the folly of allowing the present opportunity of settling the question to pass unimproved, and told them that they would never have such an opportunity again, and that they would repent of the mistake they were now making as they had often repented before. But his hon. Friend did not refer to former debates in support of this opinion; if he had done so he would have found that the Bill of 1852 contained a £5 franchise, which was rejected; that the Bill of 1860 contained a £6 franchise, which was rejected; and that the present Bill of 1866 contained a £7 franchise, which it was also possible the House would reject. So far, therefore, there was no reason to fear that delay would bring worse terms to the Conservative party. His hon. Friend then proceeded to reply to the observations of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast and the hon. Member for Maldon, for what
 1604 1605 1606 1607 1608 1609 1610 1611
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : I want to hear some unofficial and independent Member on either side of the House rise and tell us, now that we have the whole scheme of the Government before us, he thinks it is a scheme which we ought to adopt with a view to improve the representative system of this country. The right hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Goschen) has told us—and I heard the announcement with no surprise—that he liked the speech of the hon. Member for Honiton (Mr. Goldsmid) very much better than that of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells (Captain Hayter). Now, I take a different view, and venture to prefer the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells. I do so for two reasons. In the first place, the hon. and gallant Member addressed to this House a clear and able argument against the re-distribution part of the Government measure—an argument which, I venture to say, the right hon. Gentleman has altogether failed to answer. And if, as the right hon. Gentleman tells us, the Government have adopted their re-distribution plan in order that the Bill may pass, I must say I think they are very unfortunate in the line they have taken. But, again, I prefer the speech of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, because the hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goldsmid) was good enough to suggest that Droitwich should be grouped with Bewdley, and the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Goschen) said that if I had any wish of that kind, the Government would be willing to gratify it. Sir, I am very much obliged to the right hon. Gentleman and to Her Majesty's Government for this offer, but I have no wish for any such arrangement. The fact, however, remains—this is the second night of the debate, and yet up to this moment, except from the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and the Solicitor General, we have not heard one single speech which has not been made in opposition to the Government measure. It is true that the hon. and learned Member for Southwark (Mr. Locke) made a very amusing speech the other evening, but it was not a speech in favour of the Bill; it was little more than an attack upon my hon. Friend the Member for Maldon (Mr. Sandford). Every other speaker has found fault with the measure of the Government. No doubt it is natural that if Gentlemen find that the boroughs they represent are
 1573 1574 Representative Government 1575 1576 Constitution of England, 1577 1578 Representative Government. "No lover of improvement can desire that the predominant power should be turned over to persons in the mental and moral condition of the English working classes." 1579 "But it would be no longer true if present constituencies were much enlarged; still less if made co-extensive with the whole population; for in that case the majority in every locality would consist of manual labourers, and when there was any question pending on which these classes were at issue with the rest of the community no other class could succeed in getting represented anywhere." 1580 1581 "And this brings me to the re-distribution of the franchise; and I would say, Gentlemen, I have a very strong opinion that when you have to give—as you would have to give in any new Reform Bill—a considerable number of Members to your large cities—as for instance, Manchester, Liverpool, and the like (and Rochdale, of course, will be included in the number)—I think it would be the most convenient and the fairest plan if you apportioned your large towns into wards, and gave one representative for each ward. I mean that, instead of lumping two or four Members together, and letting them be the representatives of a whole town or city, I would divide that city into four wards, and let each ward send one Member. I think there is a fairness and a convenience about that which ought to recommend itself to Lord John Russell, and to every one who has to handle a new Reform Bill. For instance, you will find in a town generally that what is called the aristocracy live in one part, the working classes in another. If, in dividing a town into three or four wards, it should happen that one of the districts where the working classes predominated should have the opportunity of sending a Member whom they considered most fairly to represent their views, and if another part of the town, where people of another class lived, choose to choose a Member that more completely represented theirs, I do not see why the different classes or parties of the community should envy them that opportunity of so giving expression to their opinions. I think it would be much better than having two or four Members for one borough." 1582 1583 1584 1585 1586 laches 1587 1588 1589 1590
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he wished to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, How many cases of Rinderpest in Ireland have been reported to the Irish Government, and from which districts; whether there is reason to believe that the Lung Disease, or Pleuro-Pneumonia, is prevalent in many parts of Ireland; what system of inspection of cattle and certificate for removing them has been adopted; and if care is taken to prevent diseased cattle being passed through Dublin and other ports in Ireland for exportation to England and Scotland? He also desired information as to whether the case of a cow which had been taken from Dublin to Birkenhead and had been pronounced to be ailing, not only from Pleuro-Pneumonia, but Rinderpest, had been brought before the Irish Government and reported upon?
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, in reply, that he would communicate with the Privy Council on the subject of whether the provisions of Section 47 of the Order in Council, dated 11th April, 1866, might not with advantage be relaxed.
 MR. OWEN STANLEY  said, he wished to know, If drovers left their infected clothes at Holyhead?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the contractors who supplied hay to Aldershot were liable, the same as any one else, to the penalties inflicted upon those who broke the restrictions placed on moving cattle and materials from infected districts; but he had no knowledge that what was alleged by the hon. Member to have taken place had occurred.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, the matter would be investigated, but the War Department had no knowledge of it at present.
 COLONEL HERBERT  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether any further expenses have been incurred in consequence of the Court Martial on Lieutenant Colonel Crawley being held in England than the sum of £18,378 17s. 6d., reported to Parliament in Paper 98, dated 28th February, 1864; if so, whether he will state the amount; and whether all claims upon the part of the Indian Government or individuals have been settled?
 MR. HEADLAM  said, a further sum of £1,131 12s.  4d.
 MR. HEADLAM  said, he could not answer that question.
 MAJOR JERVIS  said, it appeared to him that, though the Government had at length found three or four hon. Members to support their scheme, the effect of the speeches of those Gentlemen was really adverse to it. The hon. Member for Newport had said than when representing West Kent he had to look after the interests of Woolwich and Chatham; but he surely had better have minded his own business, for Woolwich was represented by the Member for Greenwich, and Chatham had a Member to itself. Then the hon. Member for Wakefield had expressed his admiration for the measure, on the ground that it would put a stop to bribery and corruption; but had he forgotten £20 a piece being given for hair brushes, and hon. Gentlemen opposite remaining in that House till half past four in the morning in order to shield him from the consequence of his own own "inadvertence" in that little matter? He could not hear the address of the hon. Member who had just resumed his seat without being reminded of Dibdin's song of "Honest Tom Collins," and without remembering by whom Knaresborough had in the last Parliament been represented. Then, again, the hon. Member for Warwick had spoken with approval of the grouping of boroughs, but did he remember the notice given the other night respecting Tamworth? The shade of one of the greatest Members we ever had might almost be expected to rise at hearing the manner in which the Member for Warwick spoke of the borough of Tamworth. It was not so many years ago that Sir Robert Peel found a refuge in Tamworth; and had Tamworth been the worse for the connection? He did not think it was necessary to say anything on the subject of small boroughs after the admirable speech of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne; but he should like to hear something in reply to that speech. He might observe that when the Bill of 1859 had been brought in his constituents sent him back to that House, though they knew he was prepared to vote for a Bill which would have taken one Member from Harwich. His opponent was the son of a gentleman who it was expected would be Lord Chancellor, and the walls of the town were covered with placards, calling on the electors "to vote for the son of the Lord
 1756 1757 1758 1759
 THE LORD ADVOCATE  said, he would not detain the House long at that late hour, but he was anxious to say a few words in answer to the speech of the hon. and learned Member for Belfast. The right hon. Baronet the Member for Droitwich said yesterday that he had always thought this question might be taken out of the category of party questions, and left to be settled by mutual arrangement. Following that view, he said the Franchise Bill and the Re-distribution of Seats Bill had been read a second time, and he took credit to the Gentlemen opposite for the fact. Now, that was quite true; yet the right hon. Baronet now supported a Motion the necessary effect of which would be to prevent either the Franchise or Re-distribution of Seats Bill going into Committee. He would take the question out of the category of party, while he refused to go into Committee on the Bill. There could be no doubt of the object of the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells. It was intelligible; he understood it. It was intended to defeat both parts of the Bill. He did not complain of it. It was not unnatural that the hon. and gallant Gentleman should look with some suspicion and jealousy on the proposal of the Government, although he could have wished
 1760 1761 1762 1763 1764 1765 1766 1767
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It appears to me that, if my noble Friend had found himself under an obligation to put a question of an unusual character upon the Motion to adjourn the debate, he certainly would have done well to have conveyed to Her Majesty's Government his intention of putting that question. It is not, however, simply on the ground of his having failed to give the slightest intimation of his intention that I shall found the answer I now give. I know nothing whatever of the rumours and nothing of the belief to which the noble Lord refers. What are the means and sources of his information he knows better than I do; but as I know nothing of those rumours and nothing of that belief, I confess I am extremely sceptical as to the existence of the one or the currency of the other, and I am wholly incapable of affording any satisfaction to the curiosity of the noble Lord in regard to the question he has put. Sir, the proper time for declaring the intentions of the Government with respect to the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells will be when I have the honour of addressing the House in the course of the debate, and I must request my noble Friend to have the goodness to wait till that time comes in order to obtain such information as, in the exercise of the best judgment we can form with respect to the performance of our duty and the public interests, it may then be in our power to give.
 COLONEL C. H. LINDSAY  said, that as he was in the position of seventy-eight other Members upon whose constituencies the quarantine hand of the Chancellor of the Exchequer was resting, he felt it his duty to offer a few remarks with reference to the grouping process which the right hon. Gentleman wished to apply to the localities mentioned in Schedule A. No one could
 1745 1746
 MR. O'NEILL  said, he would beg to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
 1689
 LORD ELCHO : Before the Motion is agreed to I wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer whether, in the event of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Wells being rejected, it is the intention of Her Majesty's Government to proceed with the Bill now before the House, and to endeavour with their whole power to carry it through Parliament during the present Session? I ask this question on behalf of those Gentlemen who, at a great sacrifice, but in obedience to a sense of public duty, have felt themselves obliged to oppose the proceedings of Her Majesty's Government with reference to the question of Reform. They have no desire, I am sure, to place the Government in any difficulty that can be avoided, and it is quite evident that if the Government does not intend to persevere with the measure no useful purpose will be served by forcing those Gentlemen to divide against them on this question. It is currently reported and generally
 1768
 MR. COWPER , in reply, said, the practice complained of was contrary to the regulations, and had taken place without permission.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MAJOR DICKSON  said, he wished to know, whether any intention exists to compensate Colonel Crawley for being brought from India to be tried?
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE  said, after listening very attentively to the speech of the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down, he was quite at a loss to discover whether the Government would congratulate themselves on having him as a supporter of the Bill or not. Whilst he gave a general support to the Bills of the Government, he found so many faults with them, and spoke in such harsh terms of the Government itself, that it might almost say, "defend me from my friends." The hon. Gentleman made one extraordinary remark. He said the Opposition wanted to prevent the Bills from going into Committee, because there was so much discretion among its Members. It was an extraordinary thing to hear Gentlemen on the Liberal Benches talking of discretion on the matter of Reform. He had listened to the debates on this question, and no two Gentlemen opposite seemed to agree with reference to the measure, unless those personally connected with the Ministry. The hon. Gentleman complained of the protracted nature of the debate; he thought the Government had themselves to blame for this state of things. The House had
 1732 1733 1734 "We dare not say it before our workmen, but we would look with perfect terror upon the future if this Bill were carried." "A great manufacturer knows that there is a power against which his power and influence are unavailing, there is a control which he himself must implicitly obey, there is an unseen hand that guides and directs; he knows that were he to go among the homes which folly and injustice have rendered desolate he would be met with the reply—'There is no quarrel, but we dare not disobey the union." 1735 "Should any mason work under the current wages of London, which are 5s. ( 6d. 6d. 40s. "It is hoped that all whom it may concern will think seriously before violating the above." "Where a strike has been sanctioned by this society, and a member performs any kind of labour during the strike he shall be fined"—what did the House think?—"not exceeding £5, the sum to be paid in a month." "It is a painful and humiliating reflection to think that the working classes, of all men else whose interest it ought especially to be to better the state of society, since they get the least share of its best fruits, should be so determined to stop the growth of capital, out of a spirit where jealousy, envy, and plunder are variously proportioned. There may be a rich man here, and another there, who have accumulated money by the force of sober and industrious habits, since the time they worked as journeymen. 'They are robbers,' say your leaders, for a great portion of what they have ought to be in your pockets, and so you are instructed and tempted to hate those who receive the esteem of all good men, and are an honour to the nation." 1736 "You are strictly cautioned not to overstep good rules, by doing more work than you are required, in order to obtain the approval of your masters; such foolhardy and deceitful actions keep a large portion of good workmen out of work. Certain individuals have been guilty of this, and will be expelled if they do not refrain." "We have now let the cat out of the bag. This Reform Bill is revolution and democracy; and henceforth the democratic element will prevail in the country." 1737 "The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to-day, Had it thy reason, would it skip and play? It skips the lawn, and crops the flowery food, And licks the hand just rais'd to shed its blood." "Oh, blindness to the future!" battue 1738 1739
 MR. A. PEEL  said, that he was not in the position of those Gentlemen whose boroughs were affected by this Bill, and therefore he was not one of those dying men whose tongues were said to enforce attention; but it was impossible, occupying the position he did, and being willing to give a loyal, but independent, support to Her Majesty's Government, to cast a retrospective glance over the history of this measure without being filled with many and varying regrets. He regretted from
 1747 "that bent at will, But kept the native toughness of its steel." 1748 1749
 MR. LAYARD : No such steps, Sir, have been taken, nor do I believe that the Government intend to take any such steps. No doubt the hon. Member has read the full statement of Admiral Denman as published in the papers laid on the table of the House. I have only to add that Her Majesty's Government place the fullest reliance upon such a statement coming from a British officer.
 MR. C. WYKEHAM-MARTIN  said, that having the honour to represent the largest and most populous borough (Newport), which would be deprived of one of its Members by the present Bill, he was anxious to explain why he should support the Government and vote against the Amendment. There was no doubt in the borough a large Conservative constituency, which did not exactly approve of a measure that would deprive them of one of their representatives. Nevertheless that portion of the constituency which sent him to Parliament heartily approved of the vote he intended to give in favour of the Government measure. He found the following sentiments expressed by the Liberal paper which circulates in the borough, and he had ascertained that they coincide with the opinions of the Liberal portion of the constituency:—
 1740 "But as the new borough has vastly increased in the number of houses recently erected, and consequently in the amount of its population within these last five years, there can be no doubt that if the census was taken at the present time the numbers would be found to amount to several hundreds over the 8,000 necessary to save both our Members. At the same time we cannot express any very deep regret at our loss under existing circumstances, for we have neither commerce nor manufactures to recommend us to a more prominent position in the councils of the nation, whilst other more important boroughs are wholly unrepresented." res Integra 1741 employés Pickwick,
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, that special provision was made on that point by an Order in Council, which required drovers to leave their clothes and rugs and other articles which they carried with them, or to have them disinfected.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  said, in reply, that such measures as the hon. Gentleman alluded to for the disinfection of drovers and dealers had been taken some time back by the Irish Government under the Irish Orders in Council, and all drovers and dealers and persons in any way having charge of cattle were required to submit to a process of disinfection either at the port of landing or on the steamer, generally the latter, and he believed with very great success. With respect to the latter suggestion of the hon. Member, he (Mr. Fortescue) was in communication on the point with his noble Friend the Lord Lieutenant. There would be considerable practical difficulties in extending those stringent regulations to so large a body as the Irish labourers, but it was a point worthy of consideration.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE,  in reply, said, there had been only seven cases of cattle plague in Ireland, and the whole of them came from three farms in a small district in county Down, near Lisburn. There was reason to believe that lung disease had prevailed to a considerable extent, both in that district and
 1688
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he wished to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, What steps the Government have taken to obtain an explanation of the discrepancy which exists between the account of the British Admiral on the one hand, and of the British Merchants and the American Commodore on the other, relating to the alleged offer made by the latter to co-operate with the Admiral in resisting the bombardment of Valparaiso?
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he regretted he could not consent to postpone his Motion, but in moving it he would make very few observations. The hon. Gentleman proceeded to address the House amidst repeated interruptions and signs of impatience. His Motion was for a Select Committee to inquire into the origin, object, and extent of the Fenian Conspiracy, and especially whether, and in what degree, it was connected with any form of religious belief. What he had to say would in some degree account for the efforts the Government had made to prevent the subject being brought forward. The opinion which the Government had expressed in the Queen's Speech at the opening of the Session respecting the Fenian Conspiracy, had been entirely negatived by subsequent events. At the time the speech was delivered from the Throne, the Government had in their possession a letter from the Lord Lieutenant, stating that, in his opinion, it would be necessary to apply for a suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act; and, notwithstanding that letter, the Government penned the passage in the Royal Speech concerning Fenianism, and stated that it was condemned by all creeds alike—a statement which it behaved them to explain to the House. In the other House, it was clearly stated by the noble Lord at the head of the Government that the conspiracy had its origin in the cessation of the Civil War in America, and Lord Derby pointed out, as he himself had often done ineffectually in that House during the last five or six years, that the leaders of the conspiracy were actually under bail for their complicity in former conspiracies, and might have been arrested at any time. The proposition which he had to submit to the House was that this Fenian Conspiracy was neither more nor less than the disaffection in another form which bad existed towards England on the part of Ire-
 1693 1694 "I trust that by the means proposed the moral storm may be lulled into a calm, the waters of
 1695 "Whenever England draws the sword or lights the match, Ireland prays for her defeat; and at no time has she thus prayed more fervently than now, when the patriot sepoys are fighting for their homes." The Tablet, The Nation The Tablet, "It is most unquestionable that, of all Her Majesty's subjects, the Roman Catholics have the least personal interest in the nation's victories abroad." 1696
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he felt he had discharged his duty in the course he had pursued, and after the appeal which had been made to him from the Chair, he had nothing further to say. He would not have gone through the subject were it not that a distinct charge had been made against him by the hon. Member for Cashel, who said that he (Mr. Whalley) had made statements which he was not prepared to justify. He had endeavoured to discharge his duty to the best of his ability, and was but too happy to be relieved from making any further statements.
 MR. HOLDEN  said, that many Members for condemned boroughs had spoken of the relentless and pitiless feeling which the Government had shown towards that class of boroughs, and this had led many of them to promise the most vigorous opposition to the measure of the Government. Although he was himself the representative of one of the condemned boroughs he was not disposed to approach the question in the same spirit, but he desired to consider it more comprehensively, as it affected the good of the public at large. Although in one sense Members were sent to that House to represent their respective boroughs, they were not sent to represent them exclusively, but also the whole country. He was disposed to look at the measure, not from the selfish and personal point of view, but with a desire to do that which was for the good of the whole country. He thought the Franchise Bill and the Bill for the Redistribution of Seats were calculated to produce a great amount of good, and although the latter of these might inflict great but unavoidable pain on Members deprived of their boroughs, there would be a counterbalancing advantage in the benefits to be conferred on the new constituent body. He did not consider that the boroughs had much right of complaint. The
 1753 1754 Laughter. Laughter. 1755
 MR. O'BEIRNE  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Board of Trade, What are the qualifications of the Surveyors of Iron Passenger Ships under the Merchant Shipping Act of 1854?
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, he would mention one fact to the hon. Gentleman—namely, that the papers on this subject were being printed, and he expected they would shortly be delivered to hon. Members.
 MR. SPEAKER  having counted and declared that there were more than forty
 1697
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  said, he wished to ask the First Commissioner of Works, Whether his attention has been called to the practice of permitting Sheep to be washed in the Serpentine in the same spot where bathing is allowed; and, whether it is true that last year an express promise was given that the pollution of the water from such improper practice should not be again sanctioned?
 MR. KENNARD  said, that as the other Member for Newport, he wished to state that the opinion of the great majority of the constituency of the borough was decidedly adverse to this Bill. He might inform his hon, Friend opposite that if he had not had the assistance of the Conservatives of Newport at the last election he would not now be sitting in that House. The Isle of Wight had formerly five representatives. That number was reduced to three, and now it was proposed to leave it only two Members. He must express his opinion that the Isle of Wight had been very unfairly treated. He did not wish to take up the time of the House longer
 1742
 MR. T. J. MILLER  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether it is his intention to bring in a Bill during the present or the next Session, founded upon the Report of the Select Committee on the London Corporation Gas, &c., Bills?
 MR. ACLAND  said, it would be presumption in him who had not that legal training of which the last speaker was such a bright example to follow him through all his statistics and all his able argument. But the hon. and learned Gentleman had touched upon some principles which would form the foundation of the observations he meant to address to the House. After hearing the remarkable speech which had just been delivered, he could not say that the question of grouping alluded to in the Motion of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, had been evaded by the hon. and learned Gentleman; but, at the same time, he was of
 1725 1726 1727 litterateur viri consulares, 1728 1729 1730 1731
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that he proposed to move the omission of the clause.
 MR. HORSFALL  said, he would beg to ask the President of the Board of Trade, If he will state what are his intentions with regard to Clause 61, affecting terminal charges, which still appears in the amended Railways Clauses Bill?
 MR. BEACH  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether it is true that large quantities of hay have been purchased from infected districts in Cheshire, and sent to Alder-shot and to other places?
 MR. BEACH  said, he asked the question because the report which induced him to do so had come to him on the authority of the station master at Farnborough.
 MR. GORE LANGTON  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, Whether the Government have determined what compensation shall be given to owners of stock for loss on cattle slaughtered by order of Inspectors previous to the passing of the Cattle Plague Act?
 MR. LEATHAM  said, the great clamour for the Re-distribution of Seats Bill is now appeased. Any marks of haste which the Bill may bear, may fairly be attributed to the impatience of the House. But we are told that the system of grouping adopted in this Bill is "neither fair nor equitable." The rigid line of entire disfranchisement of any small borough has been avoided in the grouping system now introduced. The disturbance of twenty-five Members on one side of the House and twenty-four on the other side, cannot be considered unfair, in a party view of the matter. But, what is the real meaning of this opposition, springing from Members who sit on this side of the House? I attribute it, Sir, to the long inaction in matters of Reform, which pervaded the mind of the noble Lord who, some short time ago, was the admired leader of this House. I consider it a kind of legacy we have derived from him. I always believed that the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for Chester sprang from the same source. It was a kind of fidelity to the memory of the great man whose personal influence was so great in this House and out of this House. I respect the fidelity of any follower or adherent of the noble Lord to whom I refer; but I must remind the hon. and gallant Member for Wells that that period of inaction has come to an end. Now, the Amendment, Sir, of the hon. and gallant Member is prefaced by a somewhat similar statement to that which prefaced the Amendment of the noble Lord the Member for Chester. It says "that the House, while ready to consider the subject of a Re-distribution of Seats, is of opinion, &c." Now, the noble Lord the Member for Chester prefaced his Amendment with an expression "that this House, while ready to consider, with a view to its settlement, the question of Parliamentary Reform, is of opinion, &c." In both cases we are told "that the House is ready, &c," but is there any Member in the House who believes that this House is ready? It is, Sir, because the House is "not ready to consider" that Amendments of this kind are tolerated for a moment. The House is unwilling to Reform itself. Disagreeable things should be done as quickly as possible. Now, I remember when the noble Lord the Member for
 1743 1744 sine die."
 MR. MONSELL  said, in reply, that the surveyors appointed to survey iron passenger steamships were required to have an actual practical knowledge of the property of iron and the mode of construction of iron ships. Before a surveyor was appointed he was obliged to produce indentures showing that he had served his time to the trade, and he was subject to personal examination before one of the head surveyors of the Board of Trade.
 SIR EDMUND LECHMERE  said, he should much regret giving a silent vote on a measure which was of such great general importance, and which so materially affected the privileges and interests of his constituents, the electors of Tewkesbury. Standing, as it were, on the brink of his political grave, he would address a few words to the House, although he could not but feel that they might be the last, as well as the first, that he should have the honour of offering to the House. Tewkesbury was one of those boroughs which was to be subjected to the peculiar process of grouping, a process which, in the opinion of the right hon. Member for Calne, as well as in the opinions of many others, ought to lead to something harmonious, congruous, and connected. In the Government measure, however, it would be difficult to find anything which showed the skilled hand of the legislator, or anything like congruity or harmony. With regard to the geographical question, the right hon. Member for Calne said the object of the Government seemed to have been to instruct Members for boroughs in the geography of the contiguous country; but he (Sir Edmund Lechmere) thought the framers of the Bill had themselves shown a very defective knowledge of the relative geographical position of the different boroughs contained in the various groups. Tewkesbury, for instance, was twenty-one miles from Cirencester by road, and thirty-two miles by rail; Evesham was eleven miles from Tewkesbury by road and thirteen miles by rail; while Cirencester and Evesham were twenty-six miles apart by road, and forty-
 1750 1751 1752
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he was obliged to the hon. Gentleman for so
 1692
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had read the Report of the Committee some days ago but without the evidence, which had only been issued that day. The Report contained some important suggestions and recommended that the Metropolitan Gas Act should be amended; but as he had been unable to read the evidence, it would be premature in him to say more than that, if he saw that it would be right to give effect to the recommendations of the Committee, he would propose an amendment of the law. It would be impossible, however, without more careful consideration, to give a positive pledge. The Metropolitan Board of Works had appointed a Committee of their own body to consider the Report of the Select Committee: and, under these circumstances, it would probably be impracticable to pass a Bill this Session.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : Sir, the Government are not in possession of the full information which is necessary for the decision of this question. A circular was
 1687
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, he had received several deputations with reference to the cattle plague in Cheshire, and much correspondence had also taken place between the local authorities and the Government upon the subject. A rate had been made by the county; but at present not one farthing of it had been levied. Looking at the special circumstances of the case, the Government would be disposed to ask Parliament to authorise a loan on more favourable terms than those at present sanctioned by law, if they were assured that a rate would be levied.
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Like my right hon. Friend the Member for Calne, I also desired to discover if I could the principle
 1698 1699 1700 1701 1702 "The second part of our proposal is to group as many of these boroughs as can be joined together with geographical convenience. It appears to us that geographical convenience forms one of the most important considerations in dealing with this subject, although the term must, of course, be understood with a certain latitude." "In the case of eight towns, containing less than 8,000, we have not found it possible, having
 1703 1704 1705 1706 1707 1708 "It has been a great object with the Government to consider in what way they can most conveniently and equitably apply this principle to the small boroughs of the country." 1709 1710 1711 1712 "We have all along stated the mode in which we intended to proceed—that is, finding it desirable to disfranchise a certain number of the smaller boroughs, the next point we had to look to was to find out places on which we could confer the franchises thus required. It was in the first instance proposed that these franchises should be given to a certain number of large towns, and by the Amendments which we intended to bring forward in Committee this number of large towns will be increased; so that I believe it will be seen that no place of proper magnitude will require further Representation. With regard to the proposed additions to the Representation of Ireland and Scotland, we have added Representatives to flourishing places in both. This is the principle that has guided us, and the only principle on which we have acted."—[3  Hansard, "I would not sacrifice any part of the sound representation of England for the purpose of giving Members to my own country." 1713 "This is a question which you cannot avoid dealing with in any complete measure of Parliamentary Reform." 1714 1715 1716 "If, indeed, every elector in the disfranchised boroughs, and every £10 householder in the unrepresented towns, obtains a vote for the county, by the adoption of the new Reform Bill of Mr. Locke King, these objections will give place to a still more fatal one; for such a measure would be little less than the complete political extinction of the rural districts. Except in the few places where there is still a yeomanry, as in Cumberland, Westmoreland, and in some degree North Yorkshire and Kent, there exists in the agricultural population no class but the farmers, intermediate between the landlords and the labourers. A £10 franchise will admit no agricultural labourer; and the farmers and landlords would collectively be far outnumbered by the £10 householders of all the small towns in England. To enable the agricultural population to hold its fair share of the representation under any uniform and extensive suffrage short of universal, it seems absolutely necessary that the town electors should, as a rule, be kept out of the county constituencies. And the sole alternative is to form them, or the great bulk of them, into constituencies by themselves." 1717 1718 1719 1720 1721 cui bono 1722 1723 1724
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON  said, he wished to ask, whether Her Majesty's Government contemplate making any provision to meet the extraordinary loss and sufferings which have occurred in consequence of the outbreak of the cattle plague in Cheshire?
 SIR PERCY BURRELL : I beg leave to move, Sir, that the House be counted.
 SIR ROBERT ANSTRUTHER  said, he would beg to ask the Lord Advocate, whether in his opinion the provisions of Section 47 of the Order in Council, dated 11th April, 1866, which, in some parts of Scotland, render the movement of sheep almost impossible, may not with advantage be relaxed?
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING-MAXWELL  said, in compliance with the request of the Government, he would postpone, until this day week, calling attention to the Returns recently presented relating to the office of Lord Lyon King-at-Arms in Scotland.
 EARL GROSVENOR : It is due, if not to the House, at least to those Members with whom I lately had the honour of acting, that I should not give a silent vote on this occasion, and that I should explain the reasons why I shall vote in favour of the Government and against the Resolution of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells. But before I give those reasons, let me refer for a moment to the Motion which I made on a previous occasion. That Motion met with decided opposition from the Government, and was treated as a vote of censure upon them. Certainly, I did not submit it to the House with any such intention, whatever may have been the intentions of those who supported it; but, although it was defeated in a very full House by a majority of five, the Government, by fusing the Re-distribution of Seats Bill with the Franchise Bill, practically conceded the point at issue and the object with
 1811 1812 1813 from the Opposition 1814
 SIR WILLIAM STIRLING MAXWELL  said, he would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether, in Committee on the Re-distribution of Seats Bill and the Representation of the People Bills (Scotland and Ireland), he will propose Amendments for the purpose of enabling the Electors in the new University Constituencies to vote by means of voting papers, as the Electors of the existing University Constituencies of Oxford, Cambridge, and Dublin now have it in their power to do?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER,  in reply, said, he was sorry to de cline giving an answer to the question of his hon. Friend. It was a question of very great interest, and would constitute a fair matter of discussion. Voting papers had been adopted in England; but he thought there were more considerations in favour of their adoption in Scotland than in England. The discussion of this sub-
 1794
 MR. BRUCE  replied that only one case of the kind suggested by the question of his hon. Friend had occurred, and it was then decided that when no children were sent for examination, no grant should be made.
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  said, in reply, that it was intended to give up the barracks at Norwich, because the troops which were formerly quartered in them could be accommodated in the new barracks at Colchester. The lease expired that day, and the premises would be forthwith handed over to the Dean and Chapter of Norwich, to whom they belonged.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, in answer to my hon. Friend the Member for Sheffield, I have to reply that I have not had the honour of receiving any communication whatever, either officially or unofficially, from my hon. and gallant Friend the Member for Wells respecting his Amendment. With reference to the question of my noble Friend, I can quite understand that he repeats this inquiry—though he is very unobservant of the forms of the House—upon the grounds which he alleged on Friday night—namely, the rumours which are in circulation to the effect that the Government have formed the intention of abandoning the united Bill in the event of the rejection of the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells. I understand my noble Friend to ask me whether there is any foundation for those rumours. Her Majesty's Government have neither said nor done anything whatever to constitute a foundation for such rumours or to warrant their circulation; and they have formed no intention of abandoning the Bill. As to anything beyond that, and our proceedings in later portions of the Session, of course those are matters which can easily be made the subjects of a specific inquiry. At the present moment—because in political struggles of this kind they are the proximate steps to be taken—they can hardly be made the subject of immediate consideration; and we must be guided by the demands of public interests and the circumstances of the time as we proceed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Considering the question which is now proceeding, and the nature of the issue which has been raised, which involves at once the fate of the Government and the fate of the Bill upon the moment of decision, and considering the answer I have
 1796
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I apprehend, Sir, that if the Government give to the House an expression of their intentions and determination of a very definite nature, and if the Government subsequently alter or modify this determination, it is their duty to themselves to come down to the House and make known this change in their intentions. That I apprehend to be absolutely required by the first elements of their obligations to this branch of the Legislature. Clearly, therefore, if we had changed from the declaration which we made to the House we should be the parties to declare it, and in order to
 1797
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Mr. Speaker, the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Dublin complained, I think, that there was no reality in this debate. Well, Sir, I know not if that be so, but if it be it is not our fault. Every step we have taken both since and before the period when our Franchise Bill was introduced to the House has been a real step, and one grounded upon the best consideration we could give to the actual circumstances of the case. Now, let me briefly remind the House of what has taken place. In the first place, it has been objected that we introduced a single Bill; and, in the second place, it has been objected that we did not introduce it till the 12th of March. With respect to the question of the single Bill, I only notice
 1872 1873 1874 1875 A laugh. "I trust that your Lordships will never consent to couple together as parts of one system, or belonging to the same system, two questions which are essentially different from each other, however they may bear upon your electoral system—I mean measures for the purpose of preventing corruption and bribery at elections, and measures far the alteration of constituencies and the extension of the franchise," 1876 1877 "An advocate, by the great duty which he owes his client, knows, in the discharge of that office, but one person in the world—that client and none other. To save that client by all expedient means he must not regard the alarm, the suffering, the torment, the destruction which he may bring upon any other. In separating even the duties of a patriot upon those of an advocate, and casting them off to the winds, he must go on, reckless of the consequences, if his fate should be to involve his country in confusion for his client's protection." 1878 1879 1880 1881 1882 1883 1884 1885 1886 1887 1888 1889 1890 bonâ fide 1891 1892 "Mantua, væ miseræ nimiùm vicina Cremonæ!" 1893 1894 "The strawberry grows underneath the nettle And wholesome berries thrive and ripen bes; Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality." 1895 1896 1897 "I promise the noble Earl another thing—that his Bill shall have fair play—that it shall not he thrust aside by any underhand method—that there shall be no factious movement or combinations against it on the part of those who can combine for nothing else, but that it shall be dealt with on its merits."—[3  Hansard, Cries of from the Opposition. 1898 1899 "A land of old and wide renown, Where Freedom broadens slowly down From precedent to precedent—" "And statesmen at her Council met Who knew the seasons, when to take Occasion by the hand, and make, The bounds of Freedom wider yet, "By shaping some august decree, Which kept her Throne unshaken still, Broad-based upon her people's will, And compassed by the Inviolate sea." 1900
 MR. ALGERNON EGERTON  said, that he represented a constituency which since the Bill for dividing the West Riding of Yorkshire had been passed was the largest county constituency in the country, and he therefore wished to say a few words on a subject that so closely affected county constituencies. He would address himself in the first place to the observations of the Solicitor General upon the Amendment of the hon. and gallant Member for Wells (Captain Hayter), which the hon. and learned Gentleman contended should not have been put because the division ought not to have been taken on the second reading of the Bill. He would not enter into many points which had been raised in the course of this protracted debate, but would simply address himself to the effect of the measure on his own constituency.
 1871
 LORD ELCHO : Sir, I shall not trespass long upon your patience; but, as one of the aboriginal Adullamites, I claim the indulgence of the House for a very few moments. [ Cries of 1915
 LORD ELCHO : I wish, Sir, to repeat the question which I put to my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer on Friday night last—namely. Whether, in the event of the Amendment of the hon. Member for Wells (Captain Hayter) being rejected it is the intention of the Government to proceed with the United Bill, consisting of the Franchise Bill and the Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats, now before the House, and to endeavour with their whole power to carry it through Parliament during the present Session?
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : After the announcement just made by the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the Government adhere to the determination which they formerly expressed to pass this Bill through every stage, however late into the autumn the House might be compelled to sit in order to accomplish that purpose, and that by this condition Her Majesty's Government intend to stand or fall, we have no alternative but to continue the debate, and endeavour to answer the arguments of the Government in support of the provisions of this remarkable measure. One thing has, I think, been made apparent in this debate. It is abundantly clear that while the Scotch system of grouping is endeared to the hearts of the Scotch borough Members—we have had no expressions of approbation from the Scotch county Members—it is likely to find very little favour either with English or Irish Members. Under these circumstances, I should have thought that the necessary result of the comity of nations would have been that the Scotch Members would have been as backward to press upon a reluctant majority of English and Irish
 1799 1800 1801 1802 1803 1804 1805 1806 "The electoral colleges attach the people to the Government and  vice versâ. "The holders of land in every age and country have constituted the strength of nations. They it is who are the guardians at once of our morals and institutions. In intrusting to them the enjoyment of political rights, our legislators have done no violence to natural justice; because civilization renders property always accessible to the persevering efforts of industry, and it is the sure recompense of labour and economy." "A land of settled government, A land of old and wide renown, Where Freedom broadens slowly down From precedent to precedent." 1807 1808 1809 laches 1810
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU  thought the hon. Member who had last spoken had closed his eyes to the advantage of small boroughs. No less a person than the late Lord Macaulay had entered the House of Commons as the representative of a small borough; and it was a small borough that had returned the present Attorney General. He did not rise, however, to carp at the details of the Bill, but to find some common ground on which all parties were agreed, and which might form the basis for a future structure. If he were to go into details, indeed, he could only repeat what the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne and the hon. and learned Member for Belfast had already said so much better than he could. To reiterate such matters would only weary the House, without advancing the cause. The hon. Member for Westminster, in the speech which was so complimentary to the Conservative party, doubtless meant that many of them had prejudices which were burdens to the party; to which they clung too tenaciously because their forefathers, in different circumstances, had so bravely defended them. He meant that we, as it were, insisted upon going into a modern battle gleaming in the burnished armour of other days. It might, however, with no less truth be said that hon. Members opposite made a theory of Government, like a dogma in religion, to become a mere cause of fanaticism. They worshipped at the shrine of 1832, because their forefathers had done so before them; although its inspiring deities had long since fled and gone! Let one side divest itself of its prejudices, and the other cease to worship Reform, and let all try to find some common ground on which all were agreed. The hon. Member for Nottingham, instead of seeking to throw oil upon the troubled waters, had reopened an old controversy. The hon. Gentleman said that the Peers had one-third of the representation of the House of Commons, and a chamber entirely to themselves. But who were the Peers? They were distinguished generals, persons who had attained to eminence in the law, men
 1832 The Times, 1833 1834 rationale 1835 1836 The Spectator nouveaux riches, parvenus 1837 1838
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  stated, in corroboration of what had fallen from the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne, that when he and many other Members came back they were met by a rush like that at a minor theatre—a rush that would have been disgraceful even at such a place. It was with great difficulty that he and others forced their way in, and they then found the House in Committee.
 CAPTAIN HAYTER  said, he rose to ask a Question of Her Majesty's Government after the direct appeal made to him by the noble Lord the Member for Chester. That appeal was the more deserving of attention from him inasmuch as it was contained in a speech which, as far as he could understand it, was much more condemnatory of the Government scheme than was the Amendment. As matters now stood his Amendment had been robbed of much of its significance by the concession of the whole point by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. ["No! no!" and 1914 and
 CAPTAIN HAYTER : No, most certainly not.
 CAPTAIN HAYTER : I hope, Sir, as the mover of the Amendment before the House, I may be allowed to say that, as far as my intention is concerned, it is impossible for me to arrive at any decision till we receive the statement of the leader of Her Majesty's Government in this House, which we shall probably have at a later period of the evening.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, the hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had not lost the opportunity of bringing forward his Amendment, because, by the rules of the House, he would
 1918
 MR. DISRAELI : Mr. Speaker, I quite agree with one sentence of the right hon. Gentleman's speech that it is the duty of the two parties in this House to approach this subject in a spirit of conciliation and conscientiousness; and I was
 1901 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 Cries of and 1912 1913 "Whenever he took up an opinion, whatever might be the circumstances or the cause that he adopted it, he had so ductile an imagination that before he had talked long about it he fervently believed it."
  MR. ADDERLEY  said, that he could quite understand the satisfaction of the noble Lord the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor) at the success of his late Motion—though, he was sorry to say, at the cost of one-half of the Session—-which compelled the Government to put the two
 1825 1826 1827 1828 from below the gangway on the Ministerial side. 1829 1830
 MR. MONK  apologized for having put the House to the trouble of a division, but he was supported by a great number of voices on that (the Ministerial) side, and he was totally unaware at the time that the Motion was made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  bore testimony to the extreme inconvenience which had occurred on this occasion. He had had an important Amendment on the paper from the earliest moment, which would occupy as much time as any of the discussion that had already taken place, He was now deprived of that opportunity. He could name, but he would refrain from doing so, those hon. Members who had falsely given their voices in order to force a division. ["No, no! "and"
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, the hon. Member had not mentioned whether he gave authority to anybody else to speak for him.
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, be hoped the hon. Member would give some explanation of the reasons why he, as Chairman of the Bridgwater Election Committee, was not present in the House the other evening, when his authority was quoted, and that he would also state whether in his absence he had authorized any hon. Member to express his opinions?
 MR. HORSMAN : Sir, I want to ask a very short, and to repeat a very distinct question which was made not long ago to the Chancellor of the Exchequer in reference to the House going into Committee on the Reform Bills. The question was put by the hon. Member for Brighton (Mr. White) in order that the House might fully understand its position. The hon. Member for Brighton said—
 "I want, before we go into Committee, to know the terms upon which we shall go into Committee, that we may clearly understand our position. I therefore ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer this distinct question,—Do we go into Committee with the Government abiding by their pledge—to stand or fall by the Bill they have introduced?" "What I mean by standing or falling is this, as long as the Bill stands we stand, when the Bill falls we fall."
 MR. WARNER  said, he would beg to ask, What are the intentions of the Government with regard to the lease of the Cavalry Barracks at Norwich, which would expire shortly?
 MR. HADFIELD : I also wish to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, whether he has received any notice from the hon. and gallant Member for Wells to the effect
 1795
 MR. HADFIELD : I beg to ask the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, whether he intends to proceed to a division with his Amendment?
 MR. HADFIELD  said, that if hon. Members had left the House it was their own fault. There was a chance of a division, and they ran away.
 MR. SCLATER-BOOTH  said, it was true that many hon. Gentlemen had remained on the Opposition Benches, but in the confusion and the hurry and the surprise of the moment they did not remember that the hon. Member (Mr. Darby Griffith) had a Motion.
 MR. ONSLOW  said, that before the division, in going out of the House, he found himself absolutely carried back by the rush in the contrary direction.
 MR. GRENFELL  said, he was glad to follow the Member for North Staffordshire, because that right hon. Gentleman, not only in the House of Commons, but elsewhere, had expressed himself in terms which exposed him more to the charge of setting class against class than those whom he was pleased to call demagogues were open to. With respect to the Franchise Bill he might say that in the borough which he represented some publicans and small shopkeepers were returned in the statistics as working men. He believed the same was the ease in other boroughs; but passing from such details, he wished to say a few words on the whole Bill of the Government. The Re-distribution of Seats Bill had been prepared in a hurry; but clearly that was not the fault of the Government, but the fault of those who refused to allow them to proceed with the Franchise Bill till the other measure was brought in. The right hon. Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) had said the other night that he could not discover any principle in the Re-distribution Bill, but the right hon. Gentleman had said that whenever he had spoken on the subject of Reform. Now, it appeared to him that the Government ought to act upon the principle of the first Reform Bill, which was that the system of close boroughs should cease. The right hon. Gentleman upheld close boroughs for the sake of young men of unappreciated genius, who wished to get into Parliament. But that would not stand the test of experience; and even the right hon. Gentleman himself had not been elected for Calne as an unappreciated genius. It was very rare indeed that the few remaining close boroughs returned Members who could be compared to Pitt, Fox, Burke, or Canning, who had been referred to by the right hon. Gentleman in illustration of his argument. With regard both to the franchise and the grouping of boroughs, there was no reason why the propositions of the Government should be accepted without alteration or modification in Committee. On the contrary, the Bill might be so altered as to meet the views of both sides of the House. It would
 1831
 MR. HENRY SEYMOUR  said, that if Her Majesty's Government were unable to carry the measure this Session they would have done that which would facilitate its passing at some future period, whether in the spring or in the autumn. They must naturally expect to hear some kind of remonstrance from those boroughs which would be affected by the disfranchising portion of the Bill, but those small boroughs must think themselves particularly fortunate in being grouped instead of being really disfranchised altogether, and absorbed in the counties instead of being grouped. He was delighted to find from the speeches of two right hon. Gentlemen who had been Members of Lord Derby's Government that they were not opposed to all Reform, but that they had shown a reasonable willingness to listen to the proposition of some kind of Reform, and that they were also willing to admit a certain portion of the working classes to the franchise. There was in reality very little difference on both sides of the House with regard to the first part of the Bill. And the reason why the moderate Liberals had received it was that the conduct of the working classes during the last six years had shown them to be first-class working men, and also that they were the equivalent to the £10 shopkeepers. The Liberals considered the seven-pounders proper persons to be admitted to the franchise, and that being so it was the duty of the Government to bring in a measure to admit them. The "old prophet," Mr. Carlyle, in his recent address at Edinburgh, used a remarkable passage which bore on the present measure. He fixed the limit as necessary for the enjoyment of man's faculties at precisely that which had been adopted by Her Majesty's Government in this Bill. Mr. Carlyle said, it mattered not, so long as a man got meat and clothes,
 1849 1850
 MR. WHITESIDE : The speech of the hon. and learned Gentleman who has just spoken induces me to address an observation or two to the House—not to the Bill, because the hon. and learned Gentleman never touched the Bill at all, nor did he say anything with regard to the arguments which have been urged by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, by my hon. and learned Friend the Member for Belfast, and last, though not least, by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne. Those arguments, indeed, have hitherto remained entirely unanswered. I admire the character and
 1865 1866 "The natural tendency of representative Government, as of modern civilization, is towards a common collective mediocrity, and this is increased by all reductions of the franchise and by all extensions of the suffrage." Cries of 1867 1868
 MR. WYLD  remarked, that since not only the people of this country were looking to the conduct of that House in reference to the question of Reform, but every country where constitutional liberties existed read what was spoken in that House, no word ought to be lightly spoken there. Nor would he have risen had it not been for some remarks which recently fell from the hon. Member for Nottingham. He repudiated the assertions made by that hon. Member in reference to certain boroughs. He had held a seat in that House for Bodmin, with a slight exception, ever since 1847; and although the constituency of that borough could have chosen a wiser and a better man, he must say that his relations with the constituency had been of the utmost purity, and of the most constitutional character. Bodmin had a small but intelligent constituency, and was much distinguished in past periods. However, in course of time it might be requisite to take away a portion of the representation from some places and transfer it to other parts of the country. If the Government had proposed a fair and just Bill for the improvement of the representation of the people neither his constituency nor him-
 1844
 MR. COLERIDGE  said, he was sorry he was not present to hear the whole address of the hon. Baronet who had just sat down, inasmuch as those portions which he had heard made him feel the loss he had sustained by his absence from the House. It appeared to him, however, that some parts of the hon. Gentleman's speech were somewhat disconnected; and being so, perhaps he (Mr. Coleridge) would be allowed to pass by the somewhat excited observations in which the hon. Baronet had indulged, and to express shortly and simply the earnest hope of independent Members that the House would resolve to go into Committee upon this Bill by a majority sufficient to enable the present occupants of the Treasury Benches, who had again and again identified themselves with the measure, to retain their position with dignity and credit and with power enough resolutely to push on the Bill, or at least the more important
 1859 1860 1861 1862 1863 and ironical cries of bonâ fide, 1864 "We should rejoice if those who rule our land Be men who hold its many blessings dear, Wise, upright, valiant; not a servile band, Who are to judge of dangers while they fear, And honour which they do not understand."
 MR. SPEAKER : Is it the pleasure of the House that this Motion be withdrawn?
 MR. SPEAKER : The original Question was, "That I do now leave the Chair;" since which an Amendment has been moved to leave out all the words after the word "That," in order to add the words—
 "This House, although desirous that the subjects of the franchise and of the re-distribution of seats should be considered together, is of opinion that the system of grouping proposed in the present Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats is neither convenient nor equitable, and that the scheme of Her Majesty's Government is not sufficiently matured to form the basis of a satisfactory measure." 1916
 MR. SPEAKER : I will first answer the question put by the hon. Member for Devizes on a point of order. If there had been no disturbance, and everybody bad remained in their places, it would not have been competent to the hon. Member to have moved his Amendment. The only opportunity that the hon. Member had of moving it would have been in the first instance on the proposal of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Kilmarnock (Mr. Bouverie) that the two Bills should be referred to the same Committee, to which proposal any hon. Member might have objected. If any Member objected to that proposal, the second Bill—that for the Re-distribution of Seats—
 1919 1920
 MR. SPEAKER : I think the original Question was hardly in order. The hon. Member for Montrose has performed his duty as Chairman of the Election Commit tee. The evidence of that Committee has been laid on the table of the House; it has been for some time in the hands of Members, and the House has acted upon it
 1798
 MR. WALROND  said, when he attempted to catch the Speaker's eye awhile ago it was not with the view of replying
 1840 1841 1842 1843
 MR. PIM  said, he did not wish to give a silent vote on that occasion. He had voted for the Resolution of the noble Lord the Member for Chester, and in giving that vote he was still of opinion that he did right. The country had, he believed, endorsed the course which he and others had then taken, and the Ministers had themselves given their sanction to it, because they had since brought in the second part of their measure, and had agreed to unite the two Bills into one. Was there not, however, an implied promise on the part of those Gentlemen who called for the complete scheme of the Government to support that scheme when it was submitted to the House? He confessed that he thought that all those Liberals who supported the Resolution of the noble Earl on the ground stated by him, being really of opinion that some Reform was necessary, were bound now to support the Government, whose measure could not be fairly considered unless it went into Committee. As to the objection that the Reform Bill was "inconvenient,"anyone—even if gifted with the wisdom of Solomon—would
 1839
 MR. MARSH  said, he did not intend to occupy the attention of the House more than a few moments. One of the reasons for postponing the consideration of the question before the House was that there were at present four boroughs under trial—they might in a short time all be condemned. He thought they should all be disfranchised, and thus seven seats would be obtained for distribution among places that deserved to be enfranchised, which was the number of seats required in the Bill for the new towns to be enfranchised. There might be a difference of opinion as to whether the counties and large towns like Manchester should have additional Members, but if it were decided that the number of Members for those places should be increased it would be an easy task not only to obtain seats, but also to put down corruption by disfranchising some of the rotten boroughs. In his opinion that would be a much better plan to obtain seats than by grouping the smaller boroughs. Another reason for postponing the Bill was to be found in the Resolution come to by the House of Commons the other night with regard to bribery. It would require great consideration to enable a clause in conformity with the Resolution to be drawn up for insertion in the Bill. The Government had declined the task, and it was scarcely likely that the efforts of a private Member to perform it would meet with success. The question before them was one of vast importance, and the only way in which the matter could be satisfactorily accomplished was by referring it to a Select Committee. Another reason for postponing the Bill was to be found in the number of Amendments of which notice had been given, and which would have to be discussed at considerable length. He himself had to propose an Amendment, to the effect that all voters should be required to have a long residence in the same house upon the same principle as a municipal elector or a juryman. He should also propose that not only should the voter have resided in a particular place for a certain number of years, but that he should have paid rates for a like period. The possession of a qualification of this description would be a guarantee of the respectability of the voter. A still stronger argument in favour of the postponement of the measure was that it would be impossible for it to pass this year except by a very slender majority. Most Constitutions were pro-
 1870
 MR. OSBORNE  said: Mr. Speaker, the noble Lord the Member for Leicestershire (Lord John Manners) has alluded to the new and the old Whigs. Now, I cannot claim to be either a new or an old Whig, or to be anything more than simply an independent Member of Parliament, who will respect the evident lassitude of the situation and endeavour to compress my observations into the smallest possible space. Sir, I am not sorry that my noble Friend the Member for Chester (Earl Grosvenor) caught your eye in the first instance, because I think it is always an interesting spectacle to witness the reconciliation of friends. We know that the quarrel of lovers is said to be the renewal of love; and although I condole with the inhabitants of that Cave, which may now be said to have shrunk to the dimensions of a grotto, and although I think the speech of the noble Lord is rather a proof of his adroitness in looking one way and rowing another, at the same time it is a most agreeable spectacle to see a man of his ability and of the great respect in which he is held by the House and the country returning to the ranks of that party which has been an honour to him, and of which he forms a distinguished ornament. But, in considering this question of Reform, I am more than ever struck by the speeches of the two noble Lords who have preceded me; and, I am more than ever afraid that this present House of Commons is about to treat this question of Reform very much in the same manner as it was treated by other Houses in former Sessions of Parliament. There appears to be no difference of opinion among hon. Members as to the necessity of some extension of the franchise, or as to the expediency of a re-distribution of seats; but, somehow or
 1815 1816 1817 1818 History of Great Families, 1819 1820 1821 1822 The British Constitution. The Times. The Times "They have found it convenient to divest themselves of their old principles, and to adopt those of which the Liberal party formerly had the monopoly. If I might venture to be so censorious as to find fault with the Government it would be not on account of their conversion, but the enthusiasm of their conversion. Sheridan, when he saw an Highlander in a very large pair of trousers, remarked that converts were always
 1823 "I have no hesitation in saying that, in accordance with the principles of the first Reform Bill, I am willing to vote for disfranchising those boroughs which, in violation of the liberties of this country, and of the spirit and nature of the Constitution, have fallen into the hands of single patrons [the right hon. Gentleman was speaking in Kidderminster then, the House must remember], who appoint the Members those boroughs shall return to Parliament; further, if there be any boroughs which have become so small and insignificant (and I have many of them in my eye) to which the principle might be properly applied that they are unworthy to return Members to Parliament, I am perfectly willing the privilege should be at once withdrawn." "The Reform most needed is in the county representation. The franchise there is eminently unfair, and for that reason I supported Mr. Locke King's Motion for the reduction of the county franchise to £10. Nay, more, I have given an earnest of my sincerity in that cause, for by my advice the Colonial Office was induced to lower the franchise of all the Australian colonies from a much higher amount down to £10." 1824
 MR. LOWE : Mr. Speaker, I wish to call attention to a point of order. I wish, if I may be allowed, to call attention to the scene that has just taken place—a scene regrettable at any time, hut more especially considering the importance of the measure before us. I can state very little of it, for very little did I see of it; but what I wish to state is that, in common with a great many other Members, I left the House, being unwilling to force a division on a Motion which an hon. Member was anxious to withdraw. Having left the House, many of us, when the Motion had been disposed of, endeavoured to return, but we found it physically impossible to enter the House. What passed inside the House I cannot say, but when, with the greatest exertion, I and other Gentlemen forced our way in we found we had no opportunity of discussing this important measure, which we had wished to do on the question of your leaving the Chair. We found the House in Committee, and that a Motion for reporting Progress had been proposed. I wish, Sir, to have your opinion whether it is right, and whether it is a precedent that ought to be tolerated in this Assembly, that hon. Members should be debarred, without any fault of their own, and by actual physical violence ["Oh, oh!"] from discharging their duties as Members of this House. I have stated my own experience, perhaps other Members will state theirs, and I think it is very hard that any Member, by no fault of his own, should be debarred by obstacles abso-
 1917
 SIR THOMAS BATESON  said, he congratulated the Government on having the support of the last speaker, but when they recollected that the population of the borough of Poole was very little in excess of 8,000, the number fixed on by Her Majesty's Government as the margin where disfranchisement should begin, it would be unnecessary for him to answer the arguments that had been addressed to them by the hon. Gentleman. Representing as he (Sir Thomas Bateson) did a flourishing town (Devizes), venerable for its antiquity, though not  effete 1851 1852 1853 Cries of 1854 1855 Cries of 1856 Laughter 1857 Cheers from the Ministerial Benches. 1858 "Nolumus leges Anglice mutari."
 SIR THOMAS BATESON : I wish to ask the hon. and gallant Member for Wells, whether any communication has been made to him either directly or indirectly, intimating, that in the event of the Government getting a majority on the Amendment, there will be any manipulation of the Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats, or any re-arrangement which may make things more comfortable for Members?
 MR. BAXTER  said, it was true he had been appointed Chairman of the Bridgwater Election Committee, and to the best of his ability he had endeavoured to discharge his duty in that capacity; but he did not consider it any part of that duty to attend in his place subsequently, when a Motion for the issue of the Writ was under discussion, at the rather inconvenient hour of two o'clock in the morning.
 MR. BAXTER,  in reply, said, the question put to him was one of a very unusual nature, and he could not help thinking that if he were to state in detail the reasons which had induced the Committee to arrive at the decision which had been recorded he might be setting a very unfortunate and inconvenient precedent. Unless called upon by the hon. Baronet for further explanation, he should confine himself to the assertion that the course taken in no way affected the honour or impartiality of the Committee, which sat for eight days investigating the ease, and was unanimous in all its decisions.
 MR. MITFORD  said, as the representative of one of the boroughs which was to be grouped, according to the Bill of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and to return half a Member, or rather one-fourth part of two Members, he begged to make a few observations relative to those parts of the measure which specially concerned his constituents. Those were the re-distribution of seats, and especially that part which related to the grouping of boroughs. He considered the re-distribution excessive; in the case of some boroughs inconvenient and inequitable. He admitted that as great towns rose in importance, and new communities sprang up, it was necessary and desirable that they should be represented, and that that representation must be obtained at the expense of small boroughs. But when he remembered that so short a time as thirty-three years—for that was a short period in the history of a great country—had elapsed since the whole question of the representation had been thoroughly gone into, and gone into much more thoroughly than the present Government had condescended to do, he thought it was not expedient now to take fifty seats from the small boroughs, which the Reform Act had retained as being advantageous to the working of our representative system. In the year 1831 the present Prime Minister said—
 "In the representation we propose to leave a certain class of boroughs which may seem to be a blot on our system, but their existence will add to the permanence and welfare of our institutions and of the people—I mean 100 Members for places with three, four, five, or six thousand persons, who will not represent any particular interest, and who may be able to inform the House on questions of interest to the general community. If we, testing the existing system, allow no Members to any places but counties and large towns, something will still be wanting—a number of persons not connected with land, commerce, or manufactures, but who are well able to advise on matters connected with the general welfare of the nation." 1845 1846 1847 1848
 MR. POWELL  said, he wished to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Council on Education, Whether managers failing to present children for examination under the standards are entitled, under Revised Code, 1866, to a grant per scholar according to the average number in attendance throughout the year at the morning and evening meetings, not being less than 400 of their school?
 SIR HARRY VERNEY  said, he would beg to ask the hon. Member for Montrose to state to the House the reasons for which the inquiry into the alleged corrupt practices by the Bridgwater Election Petitions Committee was stopped, one hundred and eighty cases of bribery having been stated, and only seven of them investigated?
 SIR HUGH CAIRNS : Although we have no right to ask for any fresh explanations, I may, perhaps, be allowed to ask, whether the Government intend to adhere to the resolutions already announced—namely, that they will not advise the Crown to prorogue Parliament till the Bill be either rejected by the House or passed through it?
 SIR JAMES FERGUSSON  asked whether it was consistent with the practice of the House for the decision of the Speaker on the question of the Amendment being withdrawn to be challenged by hon. Members, whom he could name, who were supporters of the Government, and had hitherto been supporters of the Bill. A large portion of the House left in order to avoid being forced into a division on a false issue, and it was entirely in consequence of the extraordinary course taken by Members whom he could name, [ Cries of
 SIR MATTHEW RIDLEY  said, he was among those who went out of the House, and he was not even aware that any division had been called, or any Motion made, inasmuch as the entrance to the House was entirely obstructed.
 MR. BARING : Sir, with respect to the alterations in the  Scorpion 1941 Favorite
 MR. HARVEY LEWIS  seconded the Motion.
 SIR BROOK BRIDGES  said, as Chairman of the Committee on the Bill, he must say that the cases brought before the Committee were not of any special character, and did not justify them in inserting the clause, for which there was not any precedent.
 CAPTAIN GRIDLEY  said, as a Member of the Committee, he entirely concurred with the hon. Baronet who had last spoken.
 MR. WATKIN  wished to know who were the clients of the hon. Member for Sheffield; they certainly were not the corporation.
 MR. GOLDNEY  said, he regarded this as a most extraordinary clause, and one that would do the greatest possible mischief in encouraging litigation, for it would give to every old posting-house that was affected by a railway power to make a claim.
 MR. DODSON  said, he was of opinion that it would be unwise to make special provisions in a Private Bill for the purpose of meeting cases which could be met satisfactorily by a general measure only. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. Member for Sheffield would rest content with having called the attention of the House to
 1940
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, he was exceedingly sorry when he felt obliged to decline compliance with such a request as the noble Viscount had made; but he did not think that any considerable number of Members would be likely to attend the Commemoration, and as the Government were very desirous of taking the opinion of the House on the principle of the Bill, he could not, having regard to the period of the Session and the state of the public business, consent to postpone the Order.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE : I wish to put a question to the Chancellor of
 1942
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am very sorry that an impression has prevailed that the Terminable Annuities will be discussed on Thursday next. I do not think it could have been owing to anything said by me. In an ordinary state of business wo should have pushed that Bill forward; but in point of time it is not urgent in the sense financial Bills generally are; because no operations could take place under it probably for some three or four months. The Government, therefore, will not proceed with that Bill till they have disposed of other and more urgent subjects before the House; but, before it shall be proceeded with, I will take care that due notice shall be given to hon. Members. I cannot at present name a day, because there are several other Bills before the House besides the Reform Bill, which will take precedence of it. With respect to the course of business on Thursday, we desire to proceed in Committee with the Bills for Parliamentary Reform. That, therefore, will be the business of the evening. At the same time, there will probably be at the commencement of the business on Thursday a matter for consideration, which is not likely to occupy any great length of time, relating to a member of the Royal family, which will be a subject of communication in due form to the House. As my hon. Friend has opened the question of procedure in regard to the Reform Bills, I may just as well make an explanation to the House, which I think will be for its convenience. Hon. Members will find on the Votes to-morrow morning printed, according to what I believe is the regular practice of the House, in my name, a series of Amendments in the Representation of the People Bill, and in the Re-distribution of Seats Bill, those Amendments being the Amendments which are necessary in order to carry into effect the Instruction given to the Committee to fuse the two Bills into one Bill. The list of Amendments may look formidable, but the purpose and the effect of them is simply that which I now
 1943 "That Copies of the Parliamentary Representation Bill and the Re-distribution of Seats Bill, showing the Amendments to be proposed in Committee by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, be printed."
 MR. HENLEY : It would, no doubt, be very inconvenient not to have before us the draught of the alterations necessary to be made in consequence of bringing the two Bills together, especially since we are told by the Chancellor of the Exchequer that those alterations are to be very extensive. But one would have thought the more convenient course would have been to commit the Bill  pro forma
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I apprehend that the proposal we make to the House is in direct furtherance of the Instruction enabling the Committee to unite these two Bills into one. The Committee commenced their proceedings last night by postponing the preamble, and after that Motion was carried a Motion to report Progress was adopted. Therefore, I cannot doubt that the course we propose to take is the one that ought to be pursued. It is true that, in the case of ordinary Bills, where Amendments on a large scale and of a character not easily discussed by the House are introduced, Bills are sometimes committed  pro forma pro forma 1945
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : It can be postponed till tomorrow.
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : It is quite clear that the Chancellor of the Exchequer is deviating from the usual course; for his form of proceeding is one for which no precedent has been cited. The right hon. Gentleman has too acute a mind to make such a Motion without a motive, and I want twenty-four hours' delay in order to find out what that motive is, and when hon. Members have discovered and maturely considered it we shall be in a position to say whether it is a good one or not.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  was understood to reply in the affirmative.
 GENERAL PEEL : I beg to ask the right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer, or the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, a question of which I have not given notice, but which is of great importance, and is one to which I am sure the House will be happy to obtain an answer. That question is, Whether it is true that the proposed Congress has been given up?
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I am sorry to state that it has become necessary to give an answer substantially in the affirmative to the question of the right hon. and gallant Member. The first communication made to the British Government to this effect was by a telegraphic message received last night from France, stating that, in the opinion of the French Government, the Conference was at an end, in consequence of an answer from Austria proposing to impose conditions that were regarded as impracticable. We are now in possession of the Austrian despatch on the subject, and the substance of it is this—
 "We shall require beforehand an assurance that all the powers which are to take part in the projected Conference shall be ready to renounce the pursuit of any special or particular interest, to the detriment of the general tranquillity." 1948
 MR. PEEL DAWSON , in seconding the Motion, said, he had always been one of those who declined to present the claims of Ireland  in formâ pauperis 1949
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House at any length, as the statement made by the hon. Gentle-
 1950 1951 s. d. s. d. s. d.
 COLONEL HOGG  wished to notice one statement of the right hon. Gentleman, as it might create some alarm if not contradicted. The right hon. Gentleman said that the vestries of London were not in the habit of attending to the recommendations of their medical officers. He himself had been a member of the Vestry of St. Margaret's, Westminster, and he never knew it disregard the recommenda-
 1967
 MR. BOUVERIE : I apprehend that the two Bills having been committed to the same Committee, its functions will be to go through first one, and then the other, making those formal Amendments inseparable from their both being branches of the same subject. The proposal of the Government with a view to the convenience of the House is simply to have an amended Bill, showing the changes necessary in putting the two Bills together, and upon this we can discuss such further changes as we think necessary. The Bills before the Committee are the old Bills; but if we have in our hands the Amendments to be proposed by the Government we shall be enabled to read the Bill so as to make sense of it. There will be no alteration whatever in the formal procedure of the House upon this subject; it is merely the excessive caution of the Chancellor of the Exchequer which induces him to give notice of Amendments in such a shape as to render them intelligible.
 MR. COWPER  said, that although the hon. Gentleman who had introduced the Motion had dealt with an important subject in an interesting manner, it was open to the double objection that it was inopportune in point of time, and that the changes which he had suggested were impracticable. A Committee of that House was already inquiring into the
 1964 1965 1966
 LORD JOHN MANNERS : I wish to know whether these formal Amendments are to be proceeded with before entering upon the substantial Amendments to the Bill. If that be the intention, I can conceive that the time of the House may be saved by such an arrangement. But if the Amendments are to be taken in the ordinary course, I apprehend that the course proposed will create a great deal of confusion.
 LORD ROBERT MONTAGU : To-morrow will be an Order day. I wish to know, whether this Motion will be brought on tomorrow or upon Thursday?
 MR. AYRTON : When we proceed formally upon a Bill, and have made a certain progress, I do not understand that it is competent to us to pass the Bill through Committee  pro forma
 MR. AYRTON  said, he was unwilling to introduce any obstacle to the fulfilment of the wishes of his hon. Friend opposite. But, however anxious he might be to improve the condition of the metropolis, the course he proposed was by no means one that was likely to accomplish the object he had in view. So far from his making progress by the suggestions he had made, he was rather moving backwards. The hon. Member had proposed to amalgamate three distinct Departments. Now, formerly those Departments were practically united to the extent his hon. Friend proposed, and a Committee was appointed to consider the expediency of there being one Department to administer the estates of the Crown and to conduct the works which were now placed in charge of the office of the Chief Commissioner of Works. The result of the inquiry was a recommendation that the Crown estates should be placed in the hands of one officer, and that the public works in connection with the metropolis and the public buildings which were used for the administration of the affairs of the country should be placed in charge of another officer of the Crown. Since then a Committee had been appointed for the purpose of reconsidering the question, and, after a great deal of evidence had been taken, it was determined to adhere to the course the House previously sanctioned. Consequently the two Departments had continued separate. If the hon. Member had sufficiently re-fleeted upon the subject, he would have seen that there was nothing in common
 1960 1961 1962 octroi 1963
 MR. BAILLIE COCHRANE , in rising to move that an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty, praying for a Royal Commission to make inquiries with a view to secure the better and more economical government of the Metropolis, said, he did not think that any person who considered the question could dispute the justice of the proposition contained in that Motion. The inconvenience and expense of the present system and the present state of the metropolis were felt and complained of by everybody. There was a universal feeling of disgust, at least of disapprobation, of the way in which the public works of the metropolis were conducted. But, while he complained that metropolitan government was at present conducted in a most expensive and unsatisfactory manner, he desired to bear testimony to the zeal and ability displayed fey his right hon. Friend the First Commissioner of Works, whose good taste in connection with the management of the parks he highly appreciated. Still, it was, in his opinion, quite impossible for the right hon. Gentleman to perform the very multifarious duties his office imposed upon him. They were so many that he doubted whether the right hon. Gentleman himself was aware of their number and description. He found from a pamphlet which gave a detailed account of them that he had to maintain and repair all the Royal palaces
 1956 1957 1958 1959 dilettante
 MR. LAYARD , in reply, said, there was reason to believe that the foolish and mischievous forgeries spoken of by the hon. Gentleman had been committed by the same person. The author of them had not yet been discovered, but inquiries were now being made into the matter, and he trusted they would be successful.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE  hoped that hon. Members would not be disposed to continue a discussion for which, after the reply of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, there could no longer be any motive. He was himself anxious on that occasion, as an independent Member, to thank his right hon. Friend for the liberal manner in which he had met this claim. His own personal opinion on the matter had long been known, for he sat on a Committee of Inquiry in 1858 and voted in favour of this grant, thinking it very undesirable that there should be a case absolutely identical, the treatment of which in the two countries was so very
 1955
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he had paid great attention to the point of order decided by the Speaker at an early hour that morning, but had not been fortunate enough to discover the particular Standing Order relating to so very unusual an oocurrence as the dropping of the other Amendments when the first Amendment to the Motion for going into Committee was withdrawn. He had looked with great attention to the Standing Order of the 19th of July, 1854, which was that to
 1947
 MR. DARBY GRIFFITH  said, he would beg to ask the Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Whether he has obtained any clue to the person who lately forged a communication from himself to  The Morning Post; The Times
 MR. CARDWELL : The ordinary practice of the House has been conformed to, and notice given in the usual way; but it occurred to my right hon. Friend that it would not be convenient for Members to have a multitude of small notices upon the papers without having in addition a Return or draught Bill exhibiting the shape in which the Bill would appear if all the Amendments of the Government were adopted. The delay the noble Lord asks for has been conceded. It therefore appears that the regular course of proceeding has been duly complied with, and that it is only an additional facility which is sought to be given by the present proposal of my right hon. Friend.
 MR. MACEVOY , on rising to move a Resolution on the subject of grants to Medical Officers of unions in Ireland, said, that, when carrying the Bill for the Repeal of the Corn Laws, Sir Robert Peel made certain promises to this country and Ireland of relief in aid of local rates. Those promises had been fulfilled in England, but they had not been fulfilled in Ireland. In 1858, a Committee of that House reported in favour of a grant from the Consolidated Fund to defray one-half the cost of Medical Officers of Irish unions, and the Committee of last year on Irish taxation endorsed that recommendation, and suggested that there should also be grants for schoolmasters in Irish workhouses.
 MR. MACEVOY , in asking leave to withdraw his Motion, remarked that there were arrears of twenty-two years' standing due to Ireland, to which he should be glad if the Secretary to the Treasury would call the attention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 GENERAL DUNNE  said, he thought they were rather wandering from the subject immediately under their consideration; but the allusion made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the case of the police appeared to be the cause of the extension given to the discussion. He regarded that as a small act of justice to Ireland; but
 1954 s. d. s. d.
 MR. HUNT  asked whether the ordinary course before reprinting the Bill would not be that the House should resolve itself into Committee  proformâ 1944
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to move for Return of the names, rank, and length of service of such soldiers in the Army and Militia as have been charged with complicity with the Fenian conspiracy;
 1970
 SIR HENRY WINSTON BARRON  confirmed the statement of the hon. Member who had just sat down, and begged the Chancellor of the Exchequer to contrast the number of military quartered in Ireland some thirty years ago with the number now there. During this period he believed there had been a diminution of 12,000 military in Ireland, principally owing to the efficiency and good conduct of the Irish constabulary. The constabulary was in every sense a national force, and it was under the control of the Executive, instead of being, as here, under the control of the local magistracy. Sir Robert Peel had given a positive pledge in this House that the Irish constabulary should be paid out of national, and not out of local resources, as some equivalent—and a very small one—for the abolition of the Corn Laws. All that the Irish Members asked for was that Ireland should be put on an equality with England as regarded the payment of the schoolmasters and the medical officers in the union workhouses, and that was a proposition so just in principle that he was sure it would not be opposed by any Gentleman in or out of the House. He begged to thank the right hon. Gentleman for the straightforward manner in which he had dealt with the Motion.
 MR. CHILDERS  observed, that if the arrears on both sides were taken into account, he was afraid the debt would be very much against Ireland.
 MR. BRADY  said, he did not rise to prolong the discussion, but to thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer most sincerely for this concession, which would tend greatly to conciliate the people of Ireland.
 MR. SPEAKER : In answer to the hon. Member, I think there is only one misapprehension which prevents him from seeing the application of the rule which I yesterday described, and that misapprehension I can at once remove. He says that when an Amendment is withdrawn subsequent Amendments may be moved; but yesterday, although it was proposed that the Amendment should be withdrawn, the House did not consent to that withdrawal, and the Amendment accordingly was negatived. The hon. Member does not appear to be aware of the fact, but such is the state of the case; and the Standing Order itself, coupled with this piece of information, will, I am sure, make the subject quite clear to him.
 MR. SPEAKER : The ordinary course with regard to the reprinting of Bills is that indicated by the hon. Member for Northamptonshire, but as the course proposed by the right hon. Gentleman, now that the Committee has been directed to fuse the two Bills into one, is for the convenience of Members, I do not see that there is any objection to its being adopted on this occasion by the House.
 MR. LAIRD  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Admiralty, Why the alterations of Her Majesty's ship  Scorpion Scorpion Wyvern Scorpion
 MR. M. MORRIS  felt sure that the Irish Members had heard with great satisfaction the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, but, after all, the Government proposed to do what would be only a tardy act of justice to Ireland. He could not, however, understand what connection the Irish constabulary had with Poor Law medical officers and workhouse schoolmasters. If they went into a discussion upon the constabulary he should enter his protest against the notion which had been suggested by the Commission which had sat in Ireland during the last few months —that it should be considered a local force. The constabulary in Ireland were armed with Minie rifles, and they discharged the duty of an army. In the province with which he was connected there had not been a single soldier for fifteen years, and he believed that west of the Shannon there had not been one stationed for many years. The question how this force should be armed was lately inquired into by a Commission; and the hon. Member for Sandwich (Mr. Knatch-bull-Hugessen) had stated in the report that it was seldom one of the constabulary had to act as skirmisher or to fire at an enemy from a long distance. Could any one have been humbugging the hon. Member, or was he indulging in a joke when he said this? Sir Duncan M'Gregor, naturally favouring authority, thought that the question of how the police were to be armed should be left to the Inspector General; while Sir Richard Mayne appeared to wish that in the most peaceable parts of Ireland truncheons should be adopted and Minie rifles laid aside. But, however the constabulary might be armed, he protested against any insidious attempt to fix any portion of the expenses of this army —for it was nothing else—upon the local resources of Ireland. It was a military force, and in many parts of the country the only military force; it was used to prevent illicit distillation, to collect census papers, and to obtain agricultural statistics. With reference to the last-named subject, he would remark to the House that if statistics could render any country prosperous, Ireland ought to be the most prosperous country in the world, for he verily believed that if the collected statistics of the last ten or twelve years were
 1953
 MR. WALPOLE : The reason just put forward by my right hon. Friend seems to me to afford a very strong argument for not deviating from the usual course. If the alterations are so extensive as my right hon. Friend has intimated, a Motion of this kind ought not to have been made without notice. It is in the power of the Government to attain their object by having the Bill printed and laid on the table; but what I object to is, that this should be done by the order of the House. ["No, no !"]"Why, the Motion was put into the hands of the Speaker.
 MR. WALPOLE : It will be better to postpone it till to-morrow, as this is entirely a new proceeding.
 MR. POLLARD-URQUHART  protested against the notion that the owners of property had any special interest in shifting the burden off their shoulders to the Consolidated Fund. He did not agree with the hon. and gallant General that there had been no increase of wealth in Ireland; on the contrary, there could be no doubt that the rental of Ireland had decidedly increased, owing very much to the establishment of railways and the facility which they afforded for the profitable disposal of the produce of the land. He regretted, however, that while taxation in England had been greatly diminished the taxation upon the one special branch of Irish manufacture had been so largely increased; and he considered it would be wiser policy to apply any surplus that could be spared in continuing to relieve commerce from the burdens that still bore upon it.
 MR. TITE  said, he did not believe that the Board of Works was defective in its administration; that its work was not well done, or that the ratepayers of London would tolerate a paid Executive. If its administration were defective the compliments that had been paid to it in that House were untrue. In vindication of the Board he pointed to the works it had executed, such as the great drainage works and the street improvements in Southwark, and in regard to the Thames Embankment, he asked if the scheme was not well worked out, if the contracts were not sufficiently cared for, and if, on the whole, sufficient control had not been exercised? He was quite at a loss to conceive how the Board could be improved as an Executive body; but he thought it possible that the number of its Members might be advantageously increased. The Board was constituted only seven or eight years ago; it immediately made a complete series of plans of London and of improvements that it desired to see carried out. The estimated cost of these improvements was £23,000,000;£10,000,000 or£l 1,000,000 had been already expended; improvements were still being gradually effected, and those who exercised a little patience would still see London considerably changed. It must be remembered that while the  octroi 1968
 SIR FREDERICK HEYGATE  said, that having been a Member of the Committee of 1865, he thought the Resolution of the hon. Member (Mr. MacEvoy) was perfectly reasonable and just. He would remind the Chancellor of the Exchequer that not only had the cost of the constabulary been increased in Ireland, but taxation in that country had also been increased. He, like his hon. Colleague (Mr. Peel Dawson), never desired to come to that House  in formâ pauperis 1952
 SIR GEORGE GREY : The draught proposed will show not merely every alteration, but also the parts of the Bills that have been struck out; and, therefore, it will be essentially different from a reprinted Bill which has passed through Committee.
 SIR GEORGE GREY  said, in reply to a question put to him by the hon. Baronet (Sir William Jolliffe), that he had read the Report of the Committee upon the London City Traffic Bill, as well as the evidence, which was exceedingly interesting and instructive. Legislation upon this subject was certainly necessary, and a Bill would be prepared founded upon the principle suggested—namely, to lay down certain regulations which would not be universally applicable throughout the whole of the metropolitan police district, because circumstances varied, but which would be made as far as possible applicable to different times and different places. The Police Commissioners would be empowered to make subsidiary regulations, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State. The Bill would also provide additional police for the metropolis and the City; and would be brought forward, he hoped within a few days, by his hon. Friend the Under Secretary, who had paid great attention to this subject.
 SIR JOHN PAKINGTON : Will the proposed Bill show both the present terms of the measure as well as the intended alterations?
 SIR WILLIAM JOLLIFFE  said, he felt greatly obliged to his hon. Friend for having brought under the notice of the House the condition of our public works and public buildings, which appeared to be failures from beginning to end. He did not concur in the views of the hon. and learned Member for the Tower Hamlets as to the system of taxation in Paris being so different from that of London. There was an  octroi
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  said, ho would beg to ask Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, Whether he will not postpone from the 13th instant the Order for the second reading of the Government Bill for the Abolition of Compulsory Church Bates, as the Oxford Commemoration is to be held on that day?
 COLONEL SYKES  said, this seemed to be a question between private parties and a body especially intrusted with the protection of the navigation of rivers; the deliberate opinion of the Board of Trade being that the scheme put forward by the promoters of this Bill involved danger to the navigation of the Humber. There seemed to be no doubt that the land proposed to be enclosed was of the greatest possible use to the coastal shipping, and was most valuable in saving life and property, and he should therefore have no hesitation in voting for the Amendment.
 COLONEL EDWARDS  said, that as a Member for Beverley—the interests of which were identical with those of the neighbouring city of Hull—he fully concurred in all that had been said by the President of the Board of Trade as to the importance and the necessity of maintaining the harbour of refuge at Hull. On that coast harbours of refuge were imperatively required, and the House during the last few years had taken great interest in that question. It was now, however, proposed to reclaim a piece of land upwards of six miles square for a private object, that land being frequently covered by a depth of nine feet of water, and used as a harbour of refuge. Surely it would be madness to sanction such a scheme. If the provisions of the Bill were to be carried out, the coast would be rendered exceedingly dangerous to fishing smacks, which were in the habit of taking refuge on the part proposed to be enclosed; and he would, therefore, give his vote against the measure.
 MR. J. G. KING  protested against the second reading of the Bill, which sought to damage the only harbour of refuge on the Yorkshire coast. The House had heard much of proposals to construct artificial harbours of refuge, but here it was intended to destroy a natural one.
 THE ATTORNEY GENERAL : With respect to the suggestion that fell from the hon. Member for East Surrey in the close of his speech—that in Committee the operation of this Bill might be confined to small properties—I think that will not be the view of the House. We cannot legislate for small properties and not for larger properties: the law must be looked upon as a whole. The hon. Member argued that the law is bad because it leads to some hard cases. There is a saying among lawyers that "hard cases make bad law:" and certainly it is not the best way of discussing these questions to say that some woman or some man has been disappointed of what he or she might reasonably have expected. The better way is to look at the law as a whole and see whether there is any reason why the House should be dissatisfied with it and should therefore commence a course of departure from it. It is an assumption of my hon. Friend that the law relating to landed property is an unjust one and one essentially founded on injustice; but with great deference to him and
 1990 à priori 1991 1992
 MR. BRIGHT  said: I was not aware until I came into the House that this question was about to be discussed to-day; and I will not trouble the House with many observations upon it. I will say, in the first place, that the speech of the Attorney General is one we have heard very often on this subject. I will say, moreover, I live in hopes of hearing him make a speech exactly contradictory of that which he has now delivered—I think that extremely probable. The hon. and learned Gentleman began his speech by saying that the charge of injustice brought against the present law was a charge which had yet to he established. Of particular cases of injustice I think he made no denial. He did not deny that there are particular cases of injustice but I should like to ask the Attorney General, if there be no injustice in this law, would he be willing to extend it to all descriptions of property—to personal property as well as real property. Now, if he will answer me that question in the affirmative—that he would so extend it, and that he thinks by so extending it there would be no injustice—to keep him to his own phrase—I would believe what he said upon that point; but until he does so I must believe that in his observations today he did not mean exactly what his words indicated. I will undertake to say that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Goldney), who is so delighted with the four years' sitting of that Commission, knows—and men who know even less about the matter know—that to extend this law to all the property of the' country would involve the country in convulsion and confusion within the next twelve months. There are many forms of injustice which, having been long established amongst us by law, the people are able to bear without the disasters occurring to which I have
 1993 Laughter. 1994 1995 1996 1997
 MR. HENLEY  said: I should have contented myself with stating that which I believe to be the effect of this Bill in itself had it not been for the somewhat powerful speech of the hon. Member who has just sat down. In spite of the denial of the hon. Member who brought in the Bill, it is now quite clear that the measure is not to be looked on as a matter by itself, because the hon. Member who has just sat down most distinctly asserted that he and those about him support the Bill for the purpose of bringing about a first change in the present state of the law, which he describes as being wholly unjust. The hon. Member for Birmingham went so far as to say that however good a man's life may have been in itself, he could form no opinion of that man, unless he found that at the close of his life he had acted in conformity with what the hon. Member believed to be just. That shows how strong the hon. Member's opinion is, and pretty strongly also that he would not leave much latitude to persons who might differ from him. That is a proposition from which I think it is impossible the hon. Member can escape. The hon. Member seems to say that this particular law must be unjust because its principle is not universal, and that it must be unjust unless it is applied to every description of property. Now, I believe that a law may be perfectly just, right, and convenient as applied to one description of property, and very unjust, wrong, and inconvenient if applied to another description of property. Indeed, my chief objection to the proposal of the hon. Member for East Surrey is that it is in-applicable to the peculiar species of property with which it professes to deal. In itself the Bill does not touch the great
 1998 1999
 MR. LOCKE KING , in moving the second reading of this Bill, said, that some time had now elapsed since he last brought this question under the consideration of the House. He frankly owned that he did not like the complexion of the last Parliament, and thinking it was not at all likely to entertain a question of this kind, he had not ventured to bring the "subject before it. The present Parliament had been elected under very different circumstances, and would doubtless give the matter a favourable consideration. He was sorry that the hon. Gentleman opposite (Mr. Beresford Hope) had hurried forward and given notice of an Amendment upon the second reading of the Bill, but he hoped to satisfy him that there was no reason for the opposition which he threatened. In asking the House to assimilate the law relating to real property to that which now prevailed with regard to personal property, he was only asking for what was perfectly just. He contended that justice and common sense required an alteration of the law, and that a difference should no longer be allowed to exist between real and personal estate. The great question for the House to consider was what kind of will the State ought to make for a person who died without having made a will for himself. With regard to personal property the law was clear and satisfactory, and the majority of the people of the country concurred in its justice. It was simply this: If under ordinary circumstances a man died possessed of movables, money in the Funds, or personal property, one-third of the actual property went to the widow, and the other two-thirds to the children; or, in the
 1976 1977 1978 1979 ex post facto
 MR. BRIGHT : The gentleman in question was a gentleman of the highest rank and character.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I had no intention of addressing the House, nor do I intend to enter upon the question at any length. It is one of great interest and importance, and I should not like to address the House upon it without endeavouring to make my sentiments fully and clearly understood; but, after the appeal which has been made to me by the hon. Baronet opposite, it would not be respectful in me to allow the House to go to a division without my saying a few words. I am not aware of any sufficient reason for the passing of such a Bill as this, and I am opposed to the principle of the Bill. I am far, however, from regarding the present state of the law as perfectly satisfactory. It has never been thought necessary, or even, under the circumstances, becoming, that the Government, as such, should take part in the discussion of this measure. My hon. and learned Friend the Attorney General has explained his views with great force and clearness, and, without adopting particular expressions and every incidental sentiment, in the general views of my hon. and learned Friend, the Government—or at any rate, I—heartily concur. I hope this will be deemed sufficient, as, but for the appeal made to me, I should not have thought it necessary to address the House at all.
 MR. SELWYN  rose to present a Petition signed by 179 residents in the University of Cambridge—namely, the Chancellor and twelve Heads of Colleges, ten professors, seventeen tutors, thirty-seven assistant-tutors, twenty-two deans and other officials, seventy-four members of the Senate, and six B. A. resident fellows, which set forth that a very short time had elapsed since very important questions relating to the endowments, discipline, studies, government, and religious condition of the University were examined into and carefully considered by certain eminent persons acting under a Royal Commission, and who were themselves familiarly conversant with all matters connected with the constitution of the University and with the government and general working of the several colleges; that the opinion of these gentlemen was—
 "That many of the endowments of the Colleges and the University were connected with the Church by links which it would be an injnstice to sever, and that its whole school of theology was identified with the Church and incapable of a separate existence."
 MR. GATHORNE HARDY , in rising to move the rejection of the Bill, said, that he was sorry that the third reading had
 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
 MR. POWELL  said, it had been a common observation during the discussions on this Bill that its opponents were not the most enlightened of men. In seconding the Amendment he had, however, the satisfaction of feeling that he was representing the feelings of the University of Cambridge, who had sent up a petition which had been or would shortly be presented to the House against the Bill, a petition that was adorned by the names of men the most eminent in mathematical science. A petition signed by such men as Professors Cayley, Challis, Stokes, and Adams was worthy of the consideration of the House. He doubted not that the right hon. Gentleman would meet this petition in the same way as on a former debate—namely, by saying that "if the University had ever done anything for the advancement of the cause and the improvement of education the petition would be entitled to some consideration, but that the reverse was the case." Although it might not be described as a dishonest Bill, yet it evidently concealed some of its objects. With reference to the tests imposed by the Act of Uniformity, none could fail to observe the uncertainty of the position occupied by those who objected to them. Sometimes they asserted
 2014 2015
 MR. FAWCETT  said, he should not have ventured to address the House a second time on this subject, did he not think that by doing so he might be able to remove a misapprehension. It had been stated during the debate that this Bill would give no relief to Roman Catholics. Now he was anxious to assure his Roman Catholic friends in the House and the country that they who first started this movement in Cambridge—and it was a movement first started in the University, and not outside of it—were not in the least degree aware of any other Act that would exclude Roman Catholics. It was their desire that the Colleges should have power to admit persons of any religion, whether Nonconformists or Roman Catholics, if they thought the student sufficiently distinguished, and if they thought he was a man who would do good to the College. There were some doubts as to the operation of an Act of Parliament and of the Act of Indemnity, but he gave his Roman Catholic friends this distinct pledge, that they who were in favour of this measure, if it passed and if they found that it did not give to Roman Catholics the same privileges that it gave to Nonconformist Dissenters, would at once introduce a measure that would confer the same privileges on Roman Catholics. But he had consulted eminent Roman Catholics on the subject, and he was told that this Act, if passed, would admit Roman Catholics, because the operation of the Act of Henry VIII. virtually became inoperative by the Act of Indemnity. There were one or two other points to which he wished to direct attention. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down had alluded to a petition from resident Members of the University of Cambridge. Many of those who signed the petition were intimate friends of his, and he would be the last person to say one word in disparagement of its influence or of its importance. He was aware that it had been signed by some of the most eminent men in the University, but still this
 2016 2017 2018
 MR. BENTINCK  said, this Bill was an illustration of what the right hon. Member for Calne called the doctrine of stepping-stones and instalments. One instance of such a stepping-stone had been just dealt with by the House, and he hoped the present one would share the same fate. When this question first arose, they were told that if the Universities would allow Dissenters to write B. A. and M. A. after their names that was all that would be asked for. When that concession was made, claims were immediately made both to the emoluments and the government of the Universities. He quite agreed with the Member for the University of Oxford that this Bill interfered with, and was injurious to, the rights of property in the country. The endowments of the Universities were of two kinds—the pre-Re-formation and the post-Reformation endowments. His hon. Friend the Member for the University of Oxford had argued the question with regard to the former in a way which made it unnecessary for him to touch upon them. But with regard to the latter, and speaking of the University of Cambridge, he could say that the post-Reformation endowments constituted a very large proportion of the whole, and if the State were to interfere with such property it would amount to neither more nor less than confiscation. Many of the Colleges at Cambridge had been founded since the Reformation, and one even in the last century, and to divert these endowments to different purposes from those to which they were intended would be monstrous. The hon. Member for Brighton had argued that the State had a right to interfere. No doubt the State had interfered in many cases, and
 2019
 MR. LOCKE KING  was rather surprised that the noble Lord should have put a question of that sort to him. This Bill did not contemplate any difference between rich and poor. If the owner of such a property as the noble Lord had described should die intestate, the estate would be divided; but the noble Lord must know that, practically speaking, all the great estates were settled and entailed, and he would make bold to say that this Bill would not practically affect the great estates of the country.
 LORD JOHN MANNERS  said, that he was not either a lawyer, or a great landed proprietor; but before the House went to a division he thought they ought to know
 2006
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE , in rising to move that the Bill be read that day six months, said, that the hon. Member in the interesting and clear narrative which he had given to the House of his measure had dwelt too briefly on the historical passage descriptive of what had occurred just seven years ago in a moribund Parliament, then, as now, engaged in the discussion of a Reform Bill, and then, as now, called on by him to consider this proposed change in the law. There was, however, the difference between the two occasions that at that time the Conservatives were the Reformers, and were sitting upon the Treasury Bench, while the hon. Gentleman and his friends were in Opposition. Accordingly, as might have been expected under such circumstances, there were a great many appeals made—not exactly to "flesh and blood," for that phrase had not yet been invented—but to popular feeling, in the way in which such appeals were dexterously manipulated on the other side of the House: and, there-
 1980 Babes in the Wood "It had been argued on both sides of the question as if this were a narrow and limited Bill—as if it did not affect the whole mass of real property, but would in its operations be only confined to a small portion of that class of proprietors. As he understood the Bill, its effect would be to assimilate the law of descent of real property to that of personal property. The effect would be to extinguish that class of persons who were denominated as heirs. There would be no such thing as inheritance. No person hereafter would be heir to landed property. That, he apprehended, would clearly be the effect of the Bill, The mea-
 1981 Hansard, "The sentimental argument with respect to the case of the widow seemed to be wholly inapplicable. If this Bill became law, the natural feeling would be entirely inverted. A person who made a marriage settlement according to the present system of marriage settlements would be robbing the younger children of the rights which the common law would give them. The House had to consider what would be not only the economical but the political effects in this country of distributing real property equally among all the children."—[3  Hansard, 1982 pro tanto, 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988
 MR. BAGNALL  thought that if the provisions of the Bill were to be carried out the harbour of refuge on the Humber would be seriously damaged, and he would therefore vote against the second reading.
 MR. NEATE  said, that with respect to the argument that this measure would render it less easy to lend and borrow money on mortgage, it would be sufficient to point out that the law of settlement was a bar to the power of mortgaging altogether. The hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Beresford Hope) had spoken of the pride which the holders of moderately-sized freeholds felt in their estates, and referred to several instances in the county of Kent; but he would remind the hon. Gentleman that that was the very county in which the law of gavelkind prevailed, under which property was equally distributed. He by no means wished to see any system established which would lead to a minute subdivision of landed property. Indeed, in travelling through Brittany he was shocked and disgusted at seeing the number of fields no bigger than
 2000
 MR. NORWOOD , in moving that the Bill be read a second time this day six months, said, that its promoters sought powers to enclose some 4,000 acres of the foreshore of the River Humber, by means of a large stone wall. An immense quantity of tidal water amounting to 56,000,000 of cubic yards would thus be excluded, and the effect of this would be so to narrow the channel of the river, that fresh sandbanks would accumulate at its mouth and that the sandbanks now in existence would be enlarged. The measure was opposed solely on public grounds by the Humber Conservancy Commissioners, a body created in 1852 by Act of Parliament for the purpose of preserving and conserv-
 1971
 MR. HADFIELD  said, he thought the opinion of Grimsby was not to be set up against the opinion of Hull, and that after the investigation and report made by the Board of Trade, the proper course was to reject the Bill.
 MR. LEEMAN  would remind the House that the Committee of the House of Lords in giving their sanction to the scheme had had an opportunity of examining witnesses and investigating the recommendations of the Board of Trade. He hoped that the House would not arrive at the conclusion that it was to be bound by a Report of the Board of Trade. Knowing the locality, he was surprised that the Board should have arrrived at the conclusion stated in the Report. The scheme of the Bill had, in fact, emanated substantially from the Admiralty. Captain Veitch, of the Board of Admiralty, in company of Admiral Perry, examined the locality and reported in favour of the scheme; and the late Mr. James Walker, the eminent engineer, who had the care of the works at Spurn Point, was of the same opinion. He believed that no one who looked at the Bill impartially, would doubt that the works proposed would have the effect of improving the navigation of the Humber.
 MR. CLAY  remarked that every one who knew anything of the district knew that whenever Hull said "No," it was almost certain Grimsby would say "Yes." But there was but one opinion on the subject of the Bill amongst all the public bodies who were interested in the navigation of the Humber, and that was that the effect of the embankment would be to damage the river. He contended that many precedents existed for throwing out a Bill under the circumstances, and he protested against private persons asking Parliament for its sanction to schemes adverse to public interest and public safety.
 MR. CLAY  seconded the Motion.
 MR. WHITESIDE  said, the question before the House is one which affects the whole of our system of law with respect to property, and therefore, according to the fashion of our times, it is introduced on a Wednesday by a private Member. It has been opposed, in an able speech, by the hon. Member for Stoke (Mr. Beresford Hope), and his arguments have not yet been answered. Then the Attorney General has delivered a very sensible and conclusive
 2001 2002 2003
 MR. WHITESIDE : I am very sorry to hear that, but if the rank and character of the gentleman are indisputable, at all events I have a right to dispute his good sense, and I think if he were a man of good sense he ought to have respected the institutions of his country. The hon. Member should recollect that it was open to younger sons to devote their abilities to the service of their country, or employ them in the study of the learned professions. The present Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland was a younger son, and so was the celebrated Lord Mansfield and Lord Erskine; for a man may have sense and yet be the son of an Earl. The present system worked well, and that was the best argument in its favour. With respect to what has been urged about political economy, I confess I distrust a great deal of what political economists state, as, for instance, that the right of voting in this country should be separated from the possession of property. The hon. Gentleman said that landed property was in fewer hands than formerly; but how can he prove it? Unfortunately we have no statistics on the subject, and if we had the hon. Gentleman would not believe them. The hon. Gentleman has adduced nothing in proof of his statement, and I doubt it. There is a court in Ireland for breaking up estates, and I heard a newspaper commissioner swear in the court that, having inquired into the manner in which the new proprietors had dealt with the land, he found that the new small men had generally raised the rents 50 per cent. I
 2004 2005
 MR. CANDLISH  said, that as the representative of a large constituency on the east coast, he would ask the House to reject the Bill, which if carried out would seriously damage the Humber as a harbour of refuge.
 COLONEL WILSON PATTEN  observed, that the Report which had been presented by the Board of Trade on the subject was
 1973
 MR. MILNER GIBSON  said, that as the Board of Trade had presented a Report in reference to the Bill before the House he desired to make a few observations upon it. An Act of Parliament had devolved upon the Board of Trade the duty of ascertaining the effect of any proposed works upon the interests of the navigation of the kingdom. The present Bill made a proposal to appropriate eight square miles of the estuary of the Humber for private use, the land, at times being covered by nine feet of water, and forming a place of refuge eminently useful to the shipping of the country, especially small coasters, in bad weather. It was well-known that nothing was so valuable to small vessels without anchors or cables in dark nights as a place where they could beach, and thus save life and property. Well, this place, which was so valuable to the merchant shipping of the country, was proposed to be appropriated to the purposes of private gain. No doubt the land would be cultivated, and therefore, to a certain extent, the public would reap some benefit by the reclamation. And he did not say that private gain was any reason why the Bill should be rejected; but the Board of Trade had to look to the effect the proposed works would have upon the interests of navigation. The most competent authorities had been consulted, including the Trinity Corporation and Commander Carver, who had been recently employed in making a survey of the estuary, as well as the professional advisers of the Board, and all were of opinion that the proposal was attended with considerable danger to navigation. Accordingly, the Board of Trade reported in accordance with the opinions of those who had a right to public confidence. He was quite ready to admit that engineers were very often wrong in their estimates of what would be the consequence of works in tidal rivers. In the present case, however, it must be admitted that there was great probability of injury to the navigation being the result of the proposed works, and the House was now asked to enable certain persons to appropriate a portion of the estuary of the Humber for their own private purposes, at the risk of greatly endangering the interests of an
 1974
 MR. BARROW  said, he represented a great many small freeholders, and he well knew what their wishes were on this question. He felt that the land should not he cut into ribhons, or that the cottage which a man might build by his industry should at his death be split up into lots of bricks. The question was what sort of a will they ought to make for a man who did not make a will for himself, and he would state, without reference to the aristocracy, that the wishes of small proprietors was that their land should not be divided.
 MR. EWART  reminded the right hon. Member for the University of Dublin, that Adam Smith, in his last volume, strongly advocated the principle on which this Bill was founded, which was, in effect, but carrying out the great principles of free trade which had so long governed the policy of this country. He had himself thirty years ago called attention to the subject, but had not pressed the question because he felt sure that a better opportunity of dealing with the matter would occur. He was convinced that the proposed change was consistent with right and justice.
 MR. WATKIN  said, the hon. Member for Hull had forgotten the important fact that the authorities of the port of Grimsby, who were interested in the preservation of the navigation of the Humber, had petitioned the House that the Bill might be sent to a Select Committee. While Hull said the work would be a great obstruction to the river, Grimsby said it would be a great advantage. In his opinion the promoters of the Bill should be supported on the ground that their scheme would gain good land for the country, and would make a deeper channel in the river, because it would make a narrower one, and thus increase the scour. It was not therefore in his opinion desirable that the House of Commons should refuse to appoint a Committee to consider the Bill. The question in controversy was one for inquiry before a Select Committee, and their decision would be based upon the scientific evidence to be produced before them. The Bill had already passed the House of Lords, and the Committee of the Lords had the Report of the Board of Trade before them.
 MR. GOLDNEY , in seconding the Amendment, said, the Bill was an attempt to alter the whole law of landed property in England; and if such an alteration was to be made it ought to he made by a direct proposition coming from Her Majesty's Government and not by a side-wind coming from a private Member, A Commission, whose investigations were made during a period extending over four years—namely, from 1829 to 1833—had considered the whole subject of real property, and in the Report of that Commission it was stated that in the case of a person who died intestate it was more in accordance with the spirit of our constitution that land should descend by the law of primogeniture than
 1989
 MR. HIBBERT  suggested to the hon. Member for East Surrey that as many hon. Members would vote against the Bill in the fear that it would operate against the large estates it might be consistent with the object of his Bill to stipulate for the registration of all estates coming under its operation. Of late years there had been a great increase in the number of small estates, and the present law inflicted great hardships on the proprietors of them. It would only be justice if they were allowed to register their estates on their becoming possessed of them, so that they might come under the operation of such a Bill as this, and in this way no interference would take place with the estates of the great landed proprietors.
 SIR JOHN TROLLOPE  said, from long experience he had found that for the purposes of drainage or navigation all improvements should commence at the mouth of the river. The works proposed under the present Bill were at the estuary of the river, where an angular bay was to be filled up. The result of that step would be to deepen the channel and improve the navigation; while, at the same time, it would add 4,000 acres of valuable land to the district. He thought the Motion pre-
 1972
 SIR JOHN WALSH  said, that the question was one of so much importance that he thought it would be satisfactory to the House to learn the opinion of a Cabinet Minister before they went to a division upon it.
 VISCOUNT GALWAY  supported the Motion for the second reading on the ground that the scheme had been approved by the House of Lords, and that it was only continuing a scheme of reclamation that had been going on for many years.
 SIR STAFFORD NORTHCOTE  said, he wished to ask the Secretary to the Treasury, Whether the amount of the Annuities for lives and terms of years, granted on account of Exchequer Bills, cancelled in 1830–31, pursuant to the Act 11  Geo.
 SIR GEORGE STUCKLEY  said, he would beg to ask the Secretary of State for War, Whether the penetration of various Guns have been tested against works faced with granite; and, if so, would he be pleased to lay before the House the official
 2037
 THE MARQUESS OF HARTINGTON  replied that experiments had been made to test the penetration of various kinds of guns against granite, and that Reports had been received both from the Engineer and Artillery officers; but as additional experiments were about to take place he thought they had better be completed before any Report was laid on the table. The Gun-Cotton Commission were engaged in a laborious, and, to some extent, hazardous, investigation, and it would be some time before their Report would be ready.
 MR. BRUCE  said, in reply, that in consequence of a communication received last
 2038
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : In pursuance of an Order made upon a former day, I rise to submit a proposal to the Committee with a view to a further provision for the Princess Mary of Cambridge upon the occasion of her marriage. The character of the Princess is one happily well known both to the public at large and to many persons Members of this House and Members of the other House of Parliament, who have been permitted to live in habits of intercourse with her illustrious family; and I am very happy to think that, as far as experience has enabled the people of this country to form a judgment respecting the illustrious person to whom she is about to be united in marriage, that judgment is not less favourable. Prince Teck is by no means unknown to many of us. This is not the first occasion of his appearance among us; and wherever he has been known, I may say without fear of contradiction, the impression made by the qualities of his mind is eminently satisfactory. The subject of a further provision for the Princess Mary of Cambridge, in the event of the Princess forming a matrimonial connection, was brought under the notice of Lord Palmerston during the last autumn—at the period which nearly coincided with the dissolution of Parliament. The settlement made on the Princess Mary at a former period was a settlement of the sum of £3,000 a year; but Lord Palmerston was strongly of opinion that such a sum could hardly be regarded as adequate for the due support of the Princess in the
 2039 2040 2041
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER , in moving to leave out the words "for Counties, Cities, and Boroughs," and after "Wales" to insert the words "and to make further Provision for the Distribution of Seats in Parliament," and to leave out "Franchise," and insert "Representation of the People," said, that these were the first of a series of verbal Amendments standing in his name upon the Notice Paper, all of which were to be considered as strictly technical alterations, necessary for the purpose of carrying out the union of the two Bills. It might be necessary for the Government, hereafter, to give notice of Amendments relating to other matters, but it had been thought best to keep them completely separate.
 MR.BRUCE  took occasion to say that, although he should not at that late hour of the night oppose the Motion, his hon. and learned Friend must not be allowed to labour under the impression that the Bill would be permitted to pass through Committee without considerable alteration.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, as far as he was able to judge, the suggestion of the hon. Gentleman was a good one; and but that he wished to adhere rigidly to the terms of the Instructions under which the Bills had been referred to the Committee he might himself have recommended the adoption of the course which had now been proposed.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : The fourth clause of the Bill,
 2043 2044 2045 2046 2047 2048 "With reference to the change of the county constituency from £50 to £20, I would venture to observe that, having given to this subject very considerable pains, so far as I can form an opinion, there is nothing which would make me trust the loyalty and respectability of one who lived in a £20 house in a county in preference to one who lived in a £10 house."—[3  Hansard, 2049 2050 2051 s. s. 2052 2053 2054 2055 2056 2057
 LORD STANLEY : Sir, I do not rise to reply to the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, nor is it my intention to discuss the Amendment of my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole), that Amendment not having been yet moved. I regret to interfere with the ordinary course of proceeding; but I know that I am representing the feelings of a very large number of Members on this side of the House, and I believe of not a few upon the other side, when I venture to offer to the Government and to the Committee a suggestion as to an alteration of the course of our proceedings upon these Bills. In order that that suggestion may be discussed, I shall conclude by moving the postponement of this clause. The proposition I submit for the consideration of the House is not one that will cause any delay, for if you are to go through the whole question it matters nothing, so far as the saving of time is concerned, at which end you begin. The suggestion I have to offer is that that portion of the joint Bill which relates to the re-distribution of seats shall be taken first. I cannot expect that that proposal should meet with universal acceptation, but I must nevertheless submit it to the serious consideration of the House; and I will state
 2058 2059 2060 2061
 MR. E. C. EGERTON : I rise to second the Amendment, and I am sure the House will agree with me that in doing so it will require but very few remarks on my part to recommend the proposal to the careful consideration of the House after the speech of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn. If I may be permitted to make a personal remark, I will frankly say that I support the Amendment with no hostility to the cause of Reform. ["Oh, oh!"] Hon. Gentlemen opposite may laugh; but we are entitled on this side of the House to hold our own opinions, and to give to them the fullest expression. I am one of those who are willing and anxious to effect a settlement of this great question, and I am not alone on this side of the House in desiring that. But I wish to have that settlement made upon a proper footing—upon a footing which has reference not to mere numbers, but to the property, the intelligence, and the growing wants of the country. Let not hon. Gen-
 2062 2063
 MR. BRIGHT : Sir, I have been a little surprised at some of the observations of the hon. Member for Macclesfield (Mr. E. C. Egerton). He blames the Chancellor of the Exchequer for bringing in what he calls a very scanty measure of re-distribution. Now, I understand that the Bill disturbs and re-arranges forty-nine seats. The Bill of Lord Derby disturbed and rearranged fifteen seats. The hon. Member says he is very much surprised that this
 2064 2065 2066 2067
 MR. NEWDEGATE  said, the question to be decided was, which was the real Reform—a mere reduction of the franchise, or a re-distribution of seats? He came to the conclusion, judging from the precedent of 1832, that real Reform consisted in the re-distribution of seats. It had been stated by the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Calne (Mr. Lowe) that this was by far the gravest question, because it decided the allocation of political power, and he quite concurred in that opinion. The hon. Member for Birmingham had said, in referring to the Bill introduced by Lord Derby's Government, that it proposed the re-distribution of only fifteen seats. Now he (Mr. Newdegate) voted for the second reading of that Bill with the greatest difficulty, because it proposed to deal with fifteen seats only. But then the hon. Member for Birmingham had himself proposed a Reform Bill, when he was addressing a meeting in the country, and in the sketch of that Bill the hon. Gentleman proposed to give only eighteen seats to the counties. He was in favour of the re-distribution of seats to the extent proposed by the Government. He thought the present Bill inferior to the Bill of 1854, because it did not contemplate so extensive a re-distribution as that measure did. But, having from first to last, with respect to this great question of Reform, had in his eye the great Bill of 1832, and holding that the allocation of political power was the greatest and most important question, and believing that the House was nearer to its solution now than he had ever known it to be, he should support the Motion of the noble Lord the Member for King's Lynn.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Sir, whatever may be said about fighting in open day upon an open field, I cannot but congratulate hon. Gentlemen opposite upon their perfect mastery of the arts of ambush. Ten days have elapsed since the Motion for going into Committee on this Bill has been under discussion, and not till the moment when the noble Lord rose was the gallant party opposite able to make up its mind as to the next step it should take. Sir, I do not complain of the step. If it is thought by the noble Lord and by my hon. Friend that this is the manner in which the battle of Reform should be fought, by all means let them persevere. Sir, this question requires no lengthened argument, no detailed discussion; the purport of the Motion—if not its purpose—is perfectly plain. At last, with many efforts, having got nearer the
 2069 2070 Hansard, Hansard, 2071
 MR. WALPOLE  rose to propose the Amendment of which he had given notice, the effect of which would be to raise the occupation franchise in counties from £14 as proposed in the clause to £20, and said: Although my right hon. Friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer, on moving this clause of the Bill, took the unusual and somewhat irregular course of going into the general character of the measure, and of alluding to an Amendment which was not before the Committee, yet, with all his skill and all his ingenuity, his speech showed me how difficult a matter it is to deal with an ancient and complicated Constitution like ours, without reference to past debates and without regard to the principles on which that Constitution is founded. The right hon. Gentleman seems to me like a person who has pulled a most complicated and useful machine to pieces, with the object of repairing and amending it, and who attempts to put it together again, not according to the well-known and acknowledged principles which made it work so advantageously before, but according to some new plan by which he thinks it will work better in future. I think, however, that there are certain rules which we ought to adopt for our guidance in settling what the right hon. Gentleman calls the great question at issue in that part of the Bill which seeks to extend the franchise. We ought to observe certain rules laid down by eminent Members of
 2076 2077 "Nothing is a due and adequate representation of a State that does not represent its ability as well as its property. But, as ability is a vigorous and active principle, and as property is sluggish, inert, and timid, it never can be safe from the invasions of ability, unless it be out of all proportion predominant in the representation. It must he represented, too, in great masses of accumulation, or it is not rightly represented." 2078 "The influence of the press, whether it is for good or evil, tells more rapidly and contagiously on the aggregate societies of towns than on the inhabitants of country districts. Political unions and all the devices which by means of combination give to men acting in concert a moral force greater than their actual numbers tend to increase the influence of a manufacturing as compared with an agricultural population. Every consideration, then, derived from the nature of landed property, from its liability to the envy and rapacity of the many, from the position, habits, and characters of those who occupy it, enforce the policy and necessity of providing carefully for its protection." 2079 2080 2081 "It was with this object that, in framing the Jury Bill, I purposely called this class into increased action, and sought to familiarize them with the performance of civil duties, and to multiply their point of contact with the more intelligent inhabitants of towns. Granted that they are indisposed to innovation, that their disposition is to maintain things as they are, that they are governed by local ties and by personal attachments rather than by considerations of general politics, it is on that very account that I conjure you to extend their influence; they constitute the ballast of the vessel of the State. Beware how you heave it overboard under the impression that it is a useless incumbrance, occupying space that might be more profitably employed. It may at times retard the velocity of your movements; it may make you less obedient to the sudden impulse of shifting gales; but this, and this alone, it is that enables you to extend your canvas, and insures the steadiness of your course and the security of your navigation." 2082 2083
 MR. C. P. VILLIERS : Sir, as far as I have understood the argument of the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University (Mr. Walpole), he proposes the substitution of a £20 instead of a £14 franchise, because he is unwilling to depart from the ancient lines of the Constitution, and is very anxious to rest the franchise upon an intelligible basis. Now, I have listened with the utmost interest and attention to hear how it is he objects to a scheme which will not depart from the ancient lines of the Constitution. He has laid down a principle which I have no doubt is to be
 2084 2085 2086 2087
 MR. HUNT  thought the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Villiers), as well as the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had wholly failed to show why the Government had fixed on £14 as the county qualification. The right hon. Gentleman the Chancellor of the Exchequer had departed from the usual course of proceedings when discussing the clauses of a Bill in Committee. On the question of the franchise, the right hon. Gentleman had ranged over the whole Bill before the House, and had discussed besides the question of boundaries and the expenses at elections, and he must say that had he taken that liberty he should have been called to order by some Member of the Government. He had not thought fit to interrupt the right hon. Gentleman, hoping he would in the end tell them why £14 had been fixed on as the basis of the county qualification. He could understand why £7 had been fixed on as giving the qualification in boroughs, because he believed there was one party in the Cabinet for £6 and another for £8, so they agreed to split the difference; but he never heard an intelligible reason for fixing on £14 as the county qualification. In some cases it was said, where juries had to assess damages, each juror put on paper what he thought the right amount to be given, the best arithmetician among them then added the various sums, dividing the amount by the number twelve, and the result represented the damages to be awarded. So in this case, he thought, each Member of the Cabinet had put down the figure he considered best as the county qualification; the different figures were added up, and the result being divided by the number of Cabinet Ministers present gave £14. No better reason, he believed, could be given for fixing on that number. The only shadow of a reason which had been given by the Chancellor of the Exchequer was that the proposal of the Government would assimilate the county franchise in England to that which prevailed in Ireland. Now, he denied that there was assimilation; but if there was, there was no reason for assimilation. He said there was no assimilation, because in the one case they had adopted a rating qualification, while in the other it was to
 2088 2089 2090
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  said, that as the right hon. Gentleman the Member for the University of Cambridge (Mr. Walpole) had moved an Amendment, fixing the county franchise at £20 instead of £14, he took it for granted that the right hon. Gentleman was in favour of a £20 franchise for
 2091
 MR. HUNT  said, he had not stated that he was in favour of a lower franchise than £14, but that he could not understand why the Government, entertaining the views which they did, did not propose a lower amount.
 SIR EDWAED BULLER : Hon. Members had heard a great deal about the principle of the representation of the land; but the English Constitution, he maintained, was originally based no more upon the principle of representing the land than it was upon an educational test. What was sought for and what was found by those who established it was independence as exemplified in a man with a free tenure, at liberty to give his vote in accordance with his political opinions. Entertaining those views, Parliament would not be departing widely, as was said, from the line of the Constitution by the adoption of either a £14 or a £20 franchise. For his own part he looked upon the former proposal as the more Conservative of the two, inasmuch as while the great majority of the houses in towns above £20 were inhabited by those who kept shops, the greater number of the £14 houses would, he thought, be found to be tenanted by small farmers, who would be more under the influence of the landlords. In expressing that opinion he would be understood as speaking not otherwise than with the greatest respect of the tenant farmers of this country, whom he regarded as men of high intelligence; but then if he were asked whether they were specially remarkable for that peculiarity which most entitled men to the franchise he must answer in the negative. He quite concurred in all that had fallen from the Chancellor of the Exchequer early in the evening, as to the effect of the Government proposition as a lowering of the franchise. The lowest
 2092 s. s. 2093 2094
 MR. BERESFORD HOPE  said, that as one of the constituents of his hon. Friend who had just sat down, he must humbly confess that he could not quite follow his discourse. His hon. Friend began by stating that the original county constituency of England—namely, the 40 s. s. s. s. d. 2095 privilegium 2096
 SIR FRANCIS CROSSLEY  said, he could assure the hon. Member for Northamptonshire (Mr. Hunt) that the surprise on the Ministerial side of the House was very great when the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced so high a franchise for counties as £14, because all the Reform Bills since 1852, including that of the right hon. Gentleman (Mr. Disraeli), proposed a county franchise of £10 instead of £14. He was also surprised that the right hon. Gentleman the Member for Cambridge University (Mr. Walpole), who had been a Member of Lord Derby's Government, should think that £20 rating, which meant a £25 rental, could be satisfactory. It was generally understood that in 1859 the right hon. Gentleman and his Colleague the Member for Oxfordshire (Mr. Henley) had withdrawn from Lord Derby's Government, because they objected to the uniformity of the franchise for counties and boroughs, and that they were in favour of a lower franchise in boroughs than was proposed by the Reform Bill of 1859. It was no doubt desirable to settle this question; but he appealed to hon. Members opposite whether a £20 rating franchise could at all settle it after a £10 county franchise had been proposed over and over again. [An hon. MEMBER: Would a £14 franchise settle it?] He thought it would. It had been asked why the clause was clogged with so many provisoes? and the answer was that in the neighbourhood of many towns where the land was not built upon and was occupied as milk-farms, &c, it was divided into as many £10 occupations as possible, and persons were placed on the register and claimed the right to vote who paid the rates and taxes, indeed, but had the money returned to them, and had no more to do with the tenancy than if they lived 100 miles off. He would remind the House that for six years he had represented the whole of the West Riding of Yorkshire, the largest county constitu-
 2097
 MR. LIDDELL  said, he had looked for stronger reasons in support of the assertion that a £14 county franchise would put a term to agitation upon the subject than had been offered by the hon. Baronet (Sir Francis Crossley.) His only argument appeared to be that £14 was a compromise. He presumed, therefore, that some such compromise had been made between the Government and their supporters. If he could think that a £14 franchise would introduce for the most part the residents in small towns he might, perhaps, consider it more favourably than he did; but, knowing something of large and populous counties, his objection to it was that it would throw the county representation into the hands of the residents of large towns, which were already adequately represented, and which already possessed county influence to the extent of a third of the whole county representation. Surely that was a fair share of county influence for the large towns to possess. At all events, he was not prepared to add to it to the extent proposed by the Government. A £20 franchise, however, would not entirely swamp what had been called the rural element. Much had been said upon the subject of anomalies, and he wag bound to
 2098 2099 2100
 MR. PEASE  said, that as the representative of a thoroughly county constituency, comprising between 7,000 and 8,000 voters, and a population numbering some 200,000, without a single borough in that division of the county (South Durham), and as a new Member, he hoped he might claim the indulgence of the Committee. The simple question under consideration appeared to be this—were they to have a £14 or a £20 occupancy qualification for counties? There appeared to be a great diversity of opinion among hon. Gentlemen opposite; but having studied the question attentively, he had come to the conclusion that, as far as the balance of parties was concerned, the Government proposition would have little effect in the return of Members to that House. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, in introducing his measure of 1859 to the House, stated that he considered the difference between a £10 and a £20 occupancy qualification would only amount to 100,000 electors. The Chancellor of the Exchequer stated that his £14 qualification would add 64,000 county electors in the whole of the kingdom, and that that addition would not come from the working classes. Now he (Mr. Pease) joined issue with the right hon. Gentleman on that point. It would introduce, as far as his district was concerned, what he might call the upper crust of the working classes—namely, those who were receiving incomes of from £150 to £200 a year. He knew no reason why such a class should be kept out of the privilege of voting. Why should they be kept out of the franchise for another thirty years, or until another sweeping Reform Bill should be pressed upon the Legislature? If £20 were to be substituted for £14 he contended that a great injustice would be done to a great number of these men. He had ever been living
 2101 in toto. 2102 "The sunset of life lent him mystical lore, And coming events cast their shadows before."
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, the point upon which the House was invited to express an opinion had been somewhat misunderstood. The question really to be decided was, whether they would fix on £14 as the proper county franchise for the future—he ought really to say for the present, since the Chancellor of the Exchequer gave them clearly to understand that the arrangement was only of a temporary character. For himself, he was for striking out that figure and replacing it by a higher one. The hon. Gentleman who had just sat down (Mr. Pease) said that there were many £14 occupiers fit for the franchise; that was also the argument of his hon. Colleague (Sir Edward Buller) in the representation of North Staffordshire. Now he (Mr. Adderley) did not dispute that point in the abstract. But the point to be considered was not whether a £14 franchise was good in itself, but whether they should adopt it without restoring the distinction which had originally existed between the borough constituencies and the county constituencies, and whether an enormous mass of £14 occupiers in the towns should be introduced to overbear the freeholders in the counties. He (Mr. Adderley) was prepared to support the Amendment of the right hon. Gentleman
 2103 s., s. 2104 2105 totidem verbis, "I am willing to allow that it is very possible my plan for revising the boundaries of boroughs may not be the best; I may be able to offer you a better and more effectual mode of dealing with the boundaries."
 MR. BRIGHT  said, that his statement was that he had never been against a further division of the counties.
 MR. ADDERLEY  said, that the natural conclusion was that if the hon. Member
 2106
 SIR EDWARD BULLER  explained that what he had said was that the tenant farmers were an intelligent race of men, but that it would be a courageous assertion in any one to maintain that they were an independent race.
 MR. BANKS STANHOPE  said, that Members were placed in a peculiar position that evening, because they learnt that the second portion of the Bill was not to be passed in the form in which it was introduced. All they could see was what the Bill was not to be—they had no idea of what it was to be—nor even whether there was to be a distribution Bill at all. Then with regard to the portion of the Bill which related to the franchise they were also in a great difficulty, arising from the fact that they possessed no information whatever which they could confidently take as a basis for legislation. He had ventured some months ago to point out to the House that, as far as he had seen the Returns, no information was given upon which they could form a satisfactory opinion or give a conscientious vote. The result was the spectacle of the blind leading the blind. Before altering the franchise it was, at all events, advisable that
 2107 2108 2109 "With reference to the number of working classes on the register, it is stated that the borough is so circumscribed that many of the better class of artizans reside outside the boundary. Many of the houses in the borough are built with small rooms and can be let at low rentals, affording separate apartments for the occnpiers, while a similar house with larger rooms would command such a rental as would confer the franchise." 2110 and and
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I agree with the hon. Gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Banks Stanhope) that the House is placed in an extraordinary position with regard to this measure. The Franchise Bill has been before the House for the last three months, and the Bill for the Re-distribution of Seats has been before them for some weeks; but up to this time it has been found impossible to get a vote on the principle of either of these Bills. The whole of the discussions which have taken place have been raised on Motions of a dilatory and evasive character. They avoid what they believe to be the disagreeable necessity of saying "Aye" or "No" either upon the principle of the Bills or upon any one of the proposals which have been put before the House in the form of Amendments upon those Bills. After the scene I have witnessed to-night—after the manner in
 2111 2112 2113 2114
 MR. WALPOLE : The words, which I took down at the time, were, "The virtual engagement between the Government and the Reforming party will be at an end."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  rose to explain, but there being loud cries of "Order!" resumed his seat.
 SIR GEORGE GREY : I am quite sure that those words were not used by my right hon. Friend. At all events, I was sitting by his side, and I did not hear him utter them. What I understood him to state, and which is the fact, was that we had proposed, on our own responsibility, and without any previous concert or private engagement or compact with any party, what we thought it was our duty to propose, and that the party who are designated as "advanced Reformers" had, when the Bill was proposed, without any previous knowledge or understanding,
 2115
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : I should like to ask the right hon. Gentleman, whose friends would not permit me to speak ["Oh, oh!"  from the Opposition
 MR. WALPOLE : The words I have are these:—"The virtual engagement with the Reforming party will be at an end."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My right hon. Friend will perceive that he is wrong in his construction of the words he has quoted—those words contain no mention whatever of an engagement or contract on the part of the Government. There was no compact with the Government. What I spoke of was the virtual compact and engagement with Parliament and the public.
 MR. DISRAELI : It is not desirable that so very important a question as this should be decided by chance expressions made by Gentlemen on either side of the House. Our business is to do that which is best for the country, and not to engage in personal controversies about comparatively small points. With regard to what I have heard from the right hon. Gentleman the Secretary of State, I may remark that it is really no answer to my right hon. Friend the Member for the University of Cambridge to throw at his head Lord Derby's Reform Bill. He was not answer able for that. Again, on the other hand, it is no answer to us to throw at our: heads the views and opinions
 2116 bonâ fide 2117 2118 2119 2120 in nubibus. bonâ fide 2121 2122
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said: Having already addressed the Committee at considerable length in the earlier part of the evening, I shall only detain it a short time now. We are approaching a division of very great importance, and one to the issue of which I do not conceal that we look with great anxiety. The character of this measure, which in our judgment is capable of forming a satisfactory settlement of a great constitutional question, is to a very considerable degree involved in this decision. I, therefore, take the liberty of noticing one or two things with respect to the course of this debate. As far as I have followed the debate, I have not heard any one deny that the persons whom it is proposed to enfranchise in virtue of a £14 occupation in counties are, taken as a body, fit for the exercise of the franchise. I beg to observe that that is a fact of the most vital importance. The right hon. Gentleman the Member for Buckinghamshire, much to his credit, has upon former occasions deprecated the nicely calculated less or more of this or
 2123 2124 2125
 MR. WALPOLE : The second part of my Amendment is in these words, "on which he has been rated."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : Does my right hon. Friend then really mean to propose a rated franchise—that is, a franchise the test of which is to be the number of pounds on which his rates are charged?
 MR. WALPOLE : I say that the rating shall be as contained in the Jury Act. The words are "on which he has been rated or assessed to the poor rate, or to the inhabited house duty."
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : My right hon. Friend is doubtless aware that he does not fully copy the exact words of the Jury Act; but I now understand him distinctly to say that in that respect he does give the jury franchise—a rated franchise. But, then, it should be understood that this is a proposition to raise the occupation franchise from £14 to
 2126 s.
 MR. HENLEY : I will not occupy the House long, but I hope I may be allowed to say a few words on this proposal. I have listened with the greatest attention to all that has been said by the Chancellor of the Exchequer; for he, and he alone, has attempted to give anything like reason in favour of the £14 franchise for counties. It would seem for the moment we all, even the most advanced Reformers,
 2127 2128
 VISCOUNT CRANBOURNE : I move that the Chairman do report Progress.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : As there is other matter of importance in this clause, and at this hour of night (nearly half past twelve), we offer no resistance to the Motion. [ Cries of
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This day. [ Cries of from the Opposition, and from the Ministerial Benches.
 MR. DODSON : The Motion now before the Committee is that I do report Progress. It is for the House to settle on what day the Committee will be resumed.
 MR. SPEAKER  inquired on what day-it was the pleasure of the House that the Committee should sit again.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER : This day. [ Renewed cries of from the Opposition.
 THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER  said, that he had, though he hoped not unduly, 'pressed private and independent Members to give way on one or two occasions, but it would not be necessary to do so now. The Government were responsible for the conduct of business on Fridays, subject to certain rules of the
 2134
 MR. DISRAELI  said, that the proposition of the Chancellor of the Exchequer did not interfere with the privileges of private Members on the Friday night. The Motion for going into Committee of Supply would be made, and then hon. Gentlemen could bring forward their Motions; and afterwards, it would be unreasonable to interfere with the fair privilege of the Government. He was quite certain that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not propose to proceed with the Reform Bill at any very late hour.
 MR. DISRAELI : I rise to second the proposition; and from the manner in which it has been received by the Committee I feel sure that the House takes a deep interest in the happiness of the Princess, and gladly avails itself of the opportunity to express its very best wishes for the happiness of the auspicious union.
 MR. CHICHESTER FORTESCUE : Sir, I think the hon. Gentleman is not aware that I have answered his question several times before. I made a statement on the subject in a recent debate raised by the hon. Member for the King's County (Sir Patrick O'Brien), and I have nothing to add to the statement I then made.
 MR. HUNT  suggested that as this was the Interpretation Clause, relating to and governing the whole Bill, it might be advisable before agreeing to it to see what changes were introduced into the Bill. He therefore moved that the clause be postponed.
 MR. WHALLEY  said, he rose to ask the Chief Secretary for Ireland, What is the cause of the Militia not being called out this year in Ireland; and whether, in particular, it is owing to the knowledge or belief that a large proportion of that Force is or has been in complicity with the Fenian conspiracy; and, if so, whether the Government are prepared to furnish the House with further information as to the nature and extent of such complicity?
 MR. CHILDERS  replied that the amount of the Annuities referred to were included in columns 3, 4, 7, and 8, having been put there in compliance with a distinct Order of the House. He proposed, however, to lay upon the table a document in which the amount for each year would be given in a distinct column.
 MR. WHITESIDE  then moved the adjournment of the debate.
 MR. WHITESIDE  appealed to the House and the Government not to press so important a measure at that late hour (a quarter before one o'clock).
 SIR ANDREW AGNEW  said, he would beg to ask the Vice President of the Committee of Privy Council, If it is true that Rinderpest has broken out in the Isle of Man, appearing there last week in five places almost simultaneously; and if the information he has received leads to the belief that these outbreaks can be traced to distinct sources of infection; or whether it would appear that the disease has taken an epidemic form, and that all or any of these cases have originated spontaneously?
 SIR COLMAN O'LOGHLEN  said, the principle of the measure having been affirmed by the House, he must press his Motion.
 SIR WILLIAM HUTT  said, that having enjoyed an opportunity during his recent residence at Vienna of observing the feelings with which Prince Teck was regarded in his own country, he hoped a word from him would not be considered misplaced. He had the satisfaction of testifying that the Prince of Teck was distinguished by intellectual and moral qualities, by character and by conduct, which commanded for him the sincere respect and goodwill of every one by whom he was known. He begged to offer his sincere congratulations to the Princess Mary upon the approaching event, and to the illustrious family which she was about to join.
